DRN-4009619
The complaint
A company I will refer to as L complains that ADI Global Speciality SE (ADI) incorrectly 
increased its premium under its commercial property insurance policy.   
What happened
L had a legal dispute with a customer regarding a debt that was owed to it. This began in 
December 2018. At a later renewal in January 2022, it was recorded that the dispute had 
been settled. After this was noted on the policy it resulted in a significant increase in the 
premium.
For the policy year that ran from January 2022, the premium HDI charged was £1,320.79. L 
complained about this. HDI responded to say a mistake had been made, as the premium 
should have been increased earlier than the January 2022 renewal. It says the policy 
shouldnt have renewed automatically. Had it acted correctly, the premium it charged 
wouldve been higher. HDI says L had therefore benefitted from a lower premium.
L didnt accept this and referred its complaint to our service. The administrator for Ls policy, 
authorised to act on HDIs behalf, then reviewed the matter and offered a settlement. It says 
it wasnt clear that Ls legal claim made externally to the main policy should have impacted 
on Ls premium. It offered to provide a refund assuming the premium had been offered on 
standard terms. This meant a refund of £944.59 (£1,320.79- £376.20) plus £250 
compensation. 
Our investigator thought this offer was fair. L didnt agree. It says the increased premium 
impacted on business decisions around the scope of its work. It says this meant removing 
building trade as well as cleaning work from its insurance cover. 
L also says it has spent time dealing with this matter, which has caused distress and 
inconvenience. It says it has incurred interest and fees as a result of paying its premium in 
instalments due to the price increase. Because of this L says the compensation payment 
should be higher. 
Our investigator didnt agree so L asked for an ombudsman to consider its complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Ls complaint, but I think the offer HDI made is reasonable, so 
I wont ask it to do any more. Let me explain.
Ive seen the information L provided from a website relating to its insurance policy. This 
provides answers to frequently asked questions. The following excerpt is of relevance here:
..any claim on your legal insurance would not count for the purposes of no claims bonus or 
similar against the main insurance policy that you have bought your cover with.. we do 
reserve the right to cancel the policy or refuse to invite renewal of it if there are an excessive 
number of claims.
The indication from this is that the legal claim L made originally in late 2018 wouldnt impact 
on HDIs premium as it wasnt part of a risk consideration. In its submissions to our service 
HDIs administrator re-affirms this point as it says it isnt clear that the legal claim shouldve 
been a consideration. As a result, its willing to provide a refund based on the premium 
calculated at its standard rate. This is a refund of £944.59.
HDI also offered a £250 compensation payment. Ls complaint focuses on this amount. It 
says the scope of work the business does has been reduced as a result of the reduction in 
cover. It says it had no option but to agree reduced cover in order to bring the cost of the 
insurance down.
In its submissions to our service HDI says L told it during a call in January 2022 that it no 
longer did building or cleaning work, so this could be removed. HDI says building work 
increases the premium so by removing this cover it was able to reduce the premium. I asked 
HDI for a copy of this call recording to clarify what was discussed, which Ive now listened to.
The call lasts around forty minutes. The increased cost of insurance is discussed. The agent 
tells L this is most likely in relation to rate increases. It was discussed with L about what 
cover it needed. Ls representative explained that in terms of cleaning and building work that 
it, touched on this in the pastbut not so much now. The agent amends the cover to see if 
the premium could be reduced by removing cleaning and building work. The agent tells L 
that if youre not doing this work now we can, get rid of that. He tells L this can be added 
later again if needed. 
Based on this conversation L agreed to the cover being removed for cleaning and building 
work. The indication given by L in the call is that this was work it had done in the past, but it 
didnt now.    
L says it has suffered a financial loss over the last year as a result of the reduced cover 
provided. 
Ive read Ls testimony and supporting information in detail. However, from this, I cant see 
that it suffered a loss as a result of the reduced cover. HDI maintains the cover was reduced 
as L no longer did building or cleaning work. I note Ls comments that cover reduced from 
£5,000,000 to £2,000,000 then down to £1,000,000. I understand this relates to the public 
liability cover in place. I acknowledge that cover was reduced in order to bring down the cost 
of the annual premium. But L hasnt provided information to support its claim that its 
business was impacted by the reduced cover. 
I acknowledge Ls comments that it has suffered distress and inconvenience over a period of 
13 months. However, the complaint against HDI has been raised by a business. It cant 
suffer distress in the way that an individual can. I think its reasonable that HDI compensates 
L for the time it spent disputing the premium increase. But I think £250 is fair. I also think its 
fair that HDI agreed to provide a refund based on its standard rates. So, I cant reasonably 
ask it to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ls complaint. If it hasnt already HDI Global Speciality SE 
should:pay L £944.54 as a premium refund; and
pay L £250 compensation for the time it spent disputing the premium increase. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman