DRN-1621433
The complaint
Ms L complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited ("Red Sands") added 
an unfair exclusion to her pet insurance policy after she made a claim.
What happened
Ms L holds a pet insurance policy provided by Red Sands for her cat, S. She made a claim 
because S had a problem with one of his eyes. A vet examined S and diagnosed him with 
epiphora (excessive watering of the eye) caused by a blocked tear duct in his right eye.
Ms L claimed the costs of the treatment on her policy, and the claim was paid in accordance 
with the policy's terms and conditions. When the claim was paid, Ms L received a letter from 
Red Sands saying that claims for this condition would be paid for 365 days from when the 
issue first occurred, but that after that date, there would be no cover on the policy for any 
claims for any conditions related to the eyes or sight.
Ms L said that the blanket exclusion for all eye or sight related problems was unfair. She 
complained to Red Sands, who rejected her complaint. It said the exclusion had been added 
in accordance with its underwriting guidance.
Ms L brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didn't think Red Sands had done 
anything wrong. He said that it had shown it was its policy to exclude all claims related to the 
eyes and sight when a claim was made for this condition. Ms L disagreed. She said it was 
unfair for Red Sands to apply such a wide ranging exclusion, as it meant that a claim for 
problems with eyes unrelated to the current condition wouldn't be covered. She's asked for 
an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm satisfied that Ms L's policy was clear in that it would only cover for treatment for the eye 
condition for 365 days. The terms and conditions state "your pet will be covered for 365 days 
after the condition is first noted by yourself or your vet. This could mean when symptoms first 
arose or when an accident happened. Once these 365 days have elapsed this illness, injury 
or condition will no longer be covered, and exclusions regarding that illness or injury will then 
be applied to your policy." Ms L doesn't object to cover for treatment for the same eye 
condition being excluded from cover after the 365 days elapses. But she thinks it's unfair to 
apply a wide-ranging exclusion for all eye or sight related issues beyond that point. So this is 
the issue I'll need to consider.
It's important to note that the terms and conditions don't explicitly state that the exclusions 
which will be added after a claim is made that they will be limited to the medical problem 
which resulted in the claim. I think when the policy says exclusions will be added "regarding 
that illness or injury," rather than "for that illness or injury," it's reasonable to conclude that this is notifying policyholders that the exclusions which are added may be wider than the 
condition which has been treated. 
I've been able to review Red Sands' underwriting guidance for applying exclusions following 
treatment for a medical condition. This says that where a pet suffers from epiphora, an 
exclusion will be added to the policy for all claims "with respect to the eyes and sight." So I'm 
satisfied that in adding the exclusion to Ms L's policy after she made the claim, Red Sands 
was acting in accordance with its own guidance. And I can see from the underwriting 
guidance that the application of a wider exclusion following a specific condition being 
diagnosed isn't limited to epiphora, or eye conditions. 
I also think that Red Sands has acted fairly, and in accordance with the policy's terms and 
conditions, by saying that the exclusion would apply after 365 days had elapsed since the 
specific condition occurred. By giving this notice, it gives Ms L the opportunity to seek 
alternative insurance cover providing the level of cover she wants.
So I think that Red Sands has acted fairly in these circumstances. It's applied an exclusion in 
line with the policy terms and conditions and its own guidance. And in notifying Ms L of when 
the exclusion would come into effect, it's given her sufficient time to seek alternative 
arrangements.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman