DRN-3778650
The complaint
Mrs C says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, owes her seven clubcard 
points that have not been allocated to her Tesco Clubcard credit card account.
What happened
On 11 November 2021 7 clubcard points were not added to Mrs Cs account when she spent 
£7.85 at a Tesco Express. She did not realise at the time as she was very distressed having 
recently lost her mother. This happened again on 2 December 2021 but a member of staff 
noticed and added them manually. On 30 December 2021 points were add automatically on 
an instore transaction, but not after she then bought petrol using contactless payment. She 
had to return to the store to have them added manually. The same thing happened on 20 
January 2022. Mrs C says she has tried to sort this out but has been passed between Tesco 
Bank and Tesco Clubcard without resolution.
Mrs C wants all Tesco outlets to have fully operational machines to allow points to be 
automatically added and for 1000 points to be added as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she has suffered. She points out that this issue was ongoing during the 
pandemic when she was trying to avoid any additional contact to protect a vulnerable family 
member.
Tesco Bank explained Mrs C is automatically receiving the right points allocation from Tesco 
Bank, the problem is with the standard points awarded by Tesco stores. It said this is a 
known issue but only the Tesco IT team can fix it. It apologised that Mrs C had been 
incorrectly told by Tesco clubcard to contact Tesco Bank.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He said that as the issue was with the 
standard points, not the points Tesco Bank allocate, he could find not fault on the part of 
Tesco Bank. And we do not have the powers to investigate the stores point of sale systems 
or clubcard scheme.
Mrs C disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said she 
is still having to use her card manually to receive all her clubcard points - this defeats the 
point of contactless technology. She asked who is at fault, if not Tesco Bank. She says we 
have said Tesco is not regulated but surely it must be accountable for its operations. And it 
seems the bank is not properly linked to other parts of the organisation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. As context I want to first explain what 
I can and cant look at. The powers we have, and the rules we must follow, allow us to 
investigate complaints about businesses and activities regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). This means in this case I can only consider if Tesco Bank has done 
anything wrong. 
I have seen no evidence that it has. The points the bank allocates have been automatically 
added to Mrs Cs account for all relevant transactions. Tesco Bank has explained that there 
is a known issue within Tesco stores with mainly contactless payments and the allocation of 
the standard retail clubcard points. 
Whilst I understand it this is very frustrating for Mrs C  both in that she has had to continue 
to use her card manually to ensure she does not miss out on points owed, and because it 
seems she was given incorrect advice from the clubcard team to contact Tesco Bank  
these are not issues that I have any power to investigate. I do understand it has been 
distressing for Mrs C that she had to deal with this whilst her personal circumstances were 
so difficult.
I am sorry we have not been able to help Mrs C on this occasion, but for the reasons set out 
above I am not asking Tesco Bank to take any further action and I cannot instruct it to pay 
any compensation.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman