DRN-3417994
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct didnt cancel a payment out of 
his account.
What happened
Mr A says he asked first direct to cancel a payment for over £3,000 due to be made from his 
account. He says due to the call times he used first directs online chat to make the 
cancellation on 29 June 2021. Mr A says the payment was cancelled but it was still made. 
He says it took some time for the payment to be returned and would like compensation as 
well as an apology.
first direct says the online conversation started and it asked Mr A to confirm the cancellation. 
It says Mr A responded some six hours later by saying yes typo. It says it replied by asking 
Mr A what he wished help with but didnt receive a response. first direct says it didnt make a 
mistake in those circumstances.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought that Mr A took about six hours to confirm the cancellation request and 
that first directs response clearly asked for a response, but Mr A didnt respond.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says it was the first time he used the chat facility and 
believes he had an open ticket to respond
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place. 
I have looked carefully at the online exchange and dont think there can be any dispute that 
Mr A didnt reply to first directs confirmation request for some six hours. I appreciate Mr A 
says he had an open ticket to respond but I disagree and think that in those circumstances 
first direct was reasonably entitled to cancel the request. I also think that when Mr A 
responded later that day, first directs response ought to have alerted Mr A to a possible 
problem when it said, what is it that youd like help with. Im satisfied that first direct didnt 
confirm the payment had been cancelled but asked Mr A what it could help him with which I 
think suggests that the previous request hadnt been processed or dealt with.
I appreciate Mr A hadnt used the system before but overall, Im satisfied it was 
unreasonable to respond to a confirmation request some six hours later. And that it ought to 
have been reasonably clear that no confirmation had been given by first direct when it 
responded at that time and in that manner. I can see in any event Mr A has received his 
money back and it follows that I cant fairly order first direct pay compensation for what took 
place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman