DRN-2901459
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that an accidental death and disablement insurance policy he had the
benefit of as a result of holding a bank account with AIB Group (UK) Plc was withdrawn.
What happened
Mr C had the benefit of an accidental death and disablement insurance policy (the policy)
as a result of holding a bank account with AIB. AIB says Mr C was initially told about the
policy via an AIB customer mailing in 1997 and the policy started the same year.
In 2015, the insurance provider took the commercial decision to cancel all free insurance
policies it offered. It wrote to Mr C notifying him that it would be cancelling the policy with
effect of June 2015. It explained that it was able to offer him a new personal accident plan
from as little as £2.50 per month.
Mr C isnt happy that he no longer had the benefit of the policy  which was free. And as he
continued to hold a bank account with AIB, he says the policy should still be offered.
AIB has said that it isnt responsible for the commercial decisions made by the insurance
provider to withdraw the cover.
Our investigator concluded that our Service didnt have the power to investigate a
complaint against AIB as it wasnt the business responsible for the withdrawal of the
insurance. Mr C disagreed so the issue was passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold 
this complaint - part of which is copied below:
Mr C has raised a complaint about AIB and the insurance provider. To be clear, Im 
only looking at the complaint raised against AIB.
From what Ive seen Im satisfied that it was the insurance provider who took the 
decision to stop providing free insurance policies to customers. And I agree with our 
investigator that, as such, AIB isnt the business responsible for the withdrawal of the 
policy cover. The insurance contract was between Mr C and the insurance provider.
Mr C has said that as the policy was first offered to him for being a customer of AIB. 
And as hed kept his side of the contract (by continuing to hold a bank account with 
AIB), its unfair that he no longer had the benefit of a free personal accident and 
disablement policy.
I intend to find that our Service does have the power to consider whether AIB has 
done anything wrong by not offering a like for like policy to Mr C as a customer who 
still held a bank account with it, after the insurance provider cancelled the policy. Ive 
seen nothing to convince me that AIB was under any obligation to do so. So, I dont 
think AIB has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Both Mr C and AIB responded to say that they had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against AIB Group (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman