DRN-3782097
The complaint
Miss K complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited, has rejected the claim she made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Miss K is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2018, Miss K purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. Miss K financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Omni that was 
repayable over ten years.
In April 2021, the CMC made a claim on Miss Ks behalf under section 75 of the Act to Omni. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Miss K to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would pay for itself within the period of the loan and would cost Miss K 
nothing. 
The monthly loan instalment would be covered by the savings made on energy bill 
and FIT payments. 
Omni issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss K or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and thought the complaint should be upheld. 
Omni disagreed, it said that the evidence does not support the allegation that the system 
was misrepresented as being self-funding. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I did not think the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss K said she was disappointed with this but didnt provide anything further for me to 
consider. Omni said it had nothing further to add. So, this final decision is in line with my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Miss K paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Miss K could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss K 
and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Omni. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Omni. These 
include the credit agreement and order for/sales contract.
The contract sets out the basic price of the system. There is a validation sheet, which Miss K 
signed, showing the basic price of the system, the monthly repayment amount, the total 
number of repayments and the total payable (including loan interest).
There is an estimated returns sheet which shows the estimated year one returns. 
Was there a misrepresentation?
Having considered the evidence, including Miss Ks comments and the above key 
documents from the time of sale, I do not think there was a misrepresentation. 
The estimated returns sheet and validation sheet were both signed by Miss K on the same 
day. It seems likely this wouldve happened at the same time. They were both hand-written 
during the meeting. So, I think it is highly likely that what is written on these sheets wouldve 
been discussed with Miss K before she signed them. 
The key figures on these sheets are as follows:
Validation sheet
120 loan repayments of £77.56 per month 
Total repayable (including interest) £9,707.68
Estimated returns sheet
Total estimated year one benefit (FIT payments and energy savings) £324.93
I think it is clear from these figures that the benefit in year one would be £324.93. And that 
this is significantly less than one years loan repayments of £930.72 (12 repayments of 
£77.56). So, the system would not be self-funding in the way that Miss K says she was told it 
would be  that is that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the benefits. Based on these figures, which Miss K saw, and I think were discussed with her, I think it is 
unlikely that the system wouldve been described as paying for itself within the term of the 
loan. 
However, I think the system may reasonably have been described as self-funding over its 
expected lifespan of about 25 years. It may be that Miss Ks memory of what she was told 
has shifted over time, which is understandable given how long ago the conversation took 
place. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Miss K to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman