DRN-3244145
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank
account, called a Plus account. HSBC charged Mr S a monthly fee for the account and
provided several potential benefits in return.
Mr S thinks that HSBC should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
What happened
Mr S has banked with HSBC for quite a long time. HSBC has looked at its records for him
and has told us they show that it sold him the Plus account during February 2007. Mr S
seems to have accepted this date and its not in dispute.
During 2010, HSBC rebranded the Plus account as an Advance account. In 2014, it changed
the way the Advance account worked. For many customers, it removed the monthly fee for
the account itself but added several insurance policies which it called Insurance Aspects,
for which it charged a separate monthly fee. It did this for Mr S.
I previously sent Mr S and HSBC a provisional decision on this complaint. In that provisional 
decision I explained that I anticipated upholding part of the case. I gave both parties the 
opportunity to make any further points they wanted me to consider before I reached a final 
decision.
Mr S has said that he accepts my provisional decision and has not said anything further. 
HSBC has written to us with some additional points for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr S and HSBC have told us or sent us about the complaint, including the 
new points HSBC made in response to my provisional decision, and Ive decided to uphold it 
in part. Ive explained why below.
As the new points HSBC has made relate directly to things I said in my provisional decision, 
I have first copied the key points from my provisional decisions and then summarised 
HSBCs comments about them. I have then given my assessment of HSBCs new points. 
Copy of the key points from my provisional decision 
In outline, I think that HSBC behaved reasonably when it sold the Plus account Mr S, but
then failed to keep him up to date with relevant information he needed. As these two events
are distinctly different, I have described my findings separately.
The way HSBC sold the Plus account to Mr S in 2007
Mr S has told us that he remembers HSBC selling him the Plus account during a meeting or
discussion at one of its branches. HSBC has not said anything different and I accept Mr Ss
recollections about this.
When selling a packaged bank account, such as a Plus account, HSBC was allowed to do 
so as either a recommended or an information-only sale. Whichever approach HSBC took 
for Mr S, I would have expected it to tell him about the Plus accounts costs and benefits 
clearly and give him a choice; and in a recommended sale I would also have expected it to 
check that Plus account was a reasonable match for his personal circumstances.
HSBC has told us that its usual practice in 2007 was not to make any personal 
recommendations about packaged accounts. I havent seen anything to make me think it
changed this practice for Mr S, so I have considered this case as an information-only sale.
Mr S has told us that during the discussion HSBC didnt tell him about fee-free accounts.
Hes said that it gave him no choice but to buy the Plus account. Hes told us that if he had
known he could have had a fee-free bank account he would have taken it instead of buying a 
Plus account. HSBC has said it gave Mr S a choice.
Its now over a dozen years since HSBC sold the Plus account to Mr S, so I cant tell for sure
what HSBC said, or didnt say, to him during the discussion. However, at that time fee-free
accounts had been widely available in the UK, both from HSBC and from other banks, for
many years. They have remained so since. I find it unlikely that HSBC would have failed to
mention them during the discussion. To do so would have contradicted its own commercial
position and general banking practices at the time. I fully accept that most of the discussion
may well have been about the Plus account, but I doubt that HSBC denied Mr S the option to
have a fee-free account.
In 2007, the potential benefits of the Plus account included travel insurance and fee-free
withdrawals from some cash machines abroad. HSBC also charged lower interest rates on
overdrafts for customers with Plus accounts than it usually applied to customers with fee-free
accounts. I think its highly likely that HSBC told Mr S about these benefits. After all, it was
trying to sell the Plus account to Mr S and it was in its own interest to tell him what he could
gain by buying it. I also understand that Mr S travelled abroad quite frequently and overdrew
his account from time-to-time, so I can see why these benefits may have been attractive to
him. 
I also think its likely that HSBC told Mr S about the monthly fees, as it would not have
been plausible for it to say the benefits were free. The fees would also appear on Mr Ss
bank statements, and I dont think HSBC would have tried to hide them during the
discussion.
I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Mr S in 2007.
I have also looked at the way HSBC rebranded the Plus account to an Advance account in
2010 and I think it did so fairly without causing Mr S any loss or harm. 
The way HSBC kept Mr S up to date with information he needed.
Although Im satisfied that HSBC sold the Plus account to Mr S fairly, its obligations to him
didnt end there. Over the years, it made various significant changes to the Plus and 
Advance accounts, even before bringing in the Insurance Aspects package. For example, in
2008, it added use of a car breakdown service as a new benefit of the Plus account. It wasentitled to make these changes, but I would have expected it to keep its customers informed
about what it was doing and give them reasonable choices. Furthermore, when customers
keep a packaged account for a long time, like Mr S did, their circumstances and needs may
also change significantly.
Since 2013, the Financial Conduct Authority required all banks who provide package
accounts to write to their customers each year to remind them about the fees and benefits
(specifically, the insurance benefits) of their accounts and to tell them how to change
accounts if they wish. Such letters are often known as annual eligibility statements and Im
satisfied that HSBC sent them to many of its customers. Similarly, Im also satisfied that it
wrote to most of its customers, in good time, about the Insurance Aspect package and gave
them reasonable choices. However, there are some particular circumstances in this case
which make me doubt that HSBC met its obligation to keep Mr S informed and aware of his
options.
Over the years, Mr S has moved home several times. Throughout this complaint, he has
mentioned that he didnt receive some of the letters which HSBC said it had sent to him. This
has included a replacement credit card and some of the correspondence about this 
complaint. We have asked HSBC to check its records of Mr Ss address and have compared
them against what Mr S has told us. There seems to have been a discrepancy since around
2011. 
In outline, HSBC has told us that Mr S has had four addresses over the past thirty years or
so:
he lived at address A from April 1990 until September 2011,
he lived at address B from September 2011 until March 2015,
he lived at address C from March 2015 until May 2017,
he moved to address D in May 2017 and is still there.
With respect to address D, HSBC told us very recently that despite the home address being
updated (in May 2017) his correspondence address has remained as (address C) meaning
all correspondence. has, and will continue, to be sent to this address unless Mr S confirms
otherwise. However, it has also sent us copies of correspondence from the past year which
it sent to address D. It has also told us that it checked the address details it holds with those
an external credit agency held for Mr S and they matched.
Mr S has told us that address C is wrong and he didnt live there after 2011, although he
hasnt been able to give us precise dates.
Clearly, it was upto Mr S to tell HSBC every time he changed address and I accept there
may be some gaps in what we currently know. But he has told us that he kept staff at one of
HSBCs branches informed. He has provided some details (such as describing the occasion
on which he didnt receive a replacement credit card) and Im satisfied that he did keep 
HSBC correctly informed. I think it was then reasonable for him to expect HSBC to update its
records correctly.
I cant see any reason why Mr S would ask HSBC to update his home address but not his
correspondence address, or how he would even know that HSBC made such a distinction.
Nor do I think that HSBCs reference to a credit agency is particularly relevant, as it is
responsible for its own records. So, it seems to me that HSBC failed to act correctly about
Mr Ss changing addresses. As a consequence, it seems highly likely that HSBC sent
important information for Mr S, including annual eligibility statement and its letter about the
Insurance Aspects, to the wrong address.HSBC has told that Mr S could have found much of the relevant information online through
its banking software. I accept that Mr S probably could have done this, but it would have put
too much onus on him to look for something he had no way of knowing about. Hes also told
us that he doesnt have easy access to a computer. So, I dont think this alternative source
of information mitigates HSBCs mistake in not addressing its letters accurately.
In roughly 2013, both Mr Ss needs and the nature of the package had changed. Mr S has
told us that he still travelled but always bought separate travel insurance tailored to his
needs. Hes mentioned that his journeys often lasted longer than the maximum duration
covered by the travel insurance that came with the account. HSBC has acknowledged that
he may have needed extra cover to meet his needs. Mr S has also told us that he 
subscribed to a separate car breakdown service and so didnt need this benefit from HSBC.
If HSBC had done things correctly and sent Mr Ss annual eligibility statements to the right
address, I think he would have closed the Advance account because he no longer needed it. 
Similarly, if it had sent the letters about Insurance Aspects package to the right address, I 
think he would have opted out of buying it.
So, in summary, I dont currently think that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Mr S in 2007,
but I think it failed to send him the information it should have done from 2013-14 onwards,
and that it continued to charge him monthly fees unfairly from that point onwards
Summary of the points HSBC has made since my provisional decision
In response to my provisional decision, HSBC has made three main points. 
1.It has found another address for Mr S
HSBC has told us that it has now located records which show that Mr S used a different 
address, (address E), which neither party has mentioned previously. It has said that Mr S 
used address E when he made a separate complaint about payment protection insurance in 
July 2012. It has sent us a copy of a letter from Mr S using this address. It has also pointed 
out the when Mr S wrote to us about his payment protection complaint he used address C. It 
has described this as conflicting information from Mr S. It has also said that it only has one 
scanned document showing Mr S requesting an address change in branch.
2. It believes Mr S used online banking
HSBC has told us that it has found records which show Mr S used online banking on at least 
two occasions, one in 2016 and one in 2018. It has said that its therefore comfortable Mr S 
had sufficient access to this facility to be able to view information pertaining to (the Advance 
account), including eligibility statements. 
3. It has been using address C since Mach 2015 and this address has be verified by an 
external credit agency 
HSBC has added that it also used the external credit agency for verifying customers during 
lending applications; and (the agency) is a trusted source used by us and other financial 
institutions. It has added that there was sufficient information available on this tool in 2017 
to link Mr S to (address C) 
Given the above information it has stated that it doesnt agree that it has made any error
 
My assessment of HSBCs new points 1. Address E
I mentioned in my provisional decision that there were probably some gaps in what we 
knew about Mr Ss address history. I also said that I didnt have precise dates for his moves. 
So, I am not surprised that HSBC has now found correspondence with another address. In 
2012, Mr S marked the letter HSBC has sent us C/O (Address E). So, it seems that 
address E was probably only temporary. That being said, I accept there is some conflicting 
information. However, this does not affect my judgement that HSBC failed to update its 
address details for Mr S and so failed to send him the information it should have done from 
2013-14 onwards, and that it continued to charge him monthly fees unfairly from that point 
onwards.
I also accept that that HSBC may well only have one scanned document from one of its 
branches showing that Mr S was changing address. But this is down to HSBC, I dont hold 
Mr S responsible.
2.  Mr S used online banking
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that Mr S probably could have found much of the 
relevant information through HSBCs online banking software, but I thought HSBC was trying 
to put too much onus on Mr S to look for something he had no way of knowing about. I also 
mentioned that Mr S had told us he didnt have easy access to a computer. I didnt think this 
alternative (online) source of information mitigated HSBCs mistake in not addressing its 
letters accurately.
I accept HSBCs evidence that Mr S did use online banking from time-to-time. The purpose 
of the first occasion seems to have been to set up the software on a computer and HSBC 
has told us that Mr S called its customer service team for help with this. But the two 
occasions HSBC has quoted dont change my view that it is placing too much responsibility 
on Mr S to mitigate its failure, particularly as he seems to have needed help to use its 
software.  HSBC may feel comfortable about Mr Ss ability to view information online, but I 
am not satisfied that it did everything it should to keep him properly informed about the 
Advance account and the Insurance Aspects package. 
3. Address C has been verified by an external agency
I accept HSBCs comments about the extent to which some financial institutions use the 
external credit agency. But, as I said in my provisional decision, HSBC is responsible for its 
own records and the key point is that Im satisfied Mr S told it about his changes of address. 
It was then upto HSBC to act accordingly and update its own records. 
So, in summary, after considering HSBCs additional points, I still think that HSBC failed to 
act on information Mr S gave it about his changes of address and so didnt send him the 
information it should have done from 2013-14 onwards. Had it done so, I think that Mr S 
would have closed the Advance account and not bought the Insurance Aspects package. It 
follows that HSBC should put things right for Mr S by paying him appropriate compensation 
Finally, since my provisional decision, Mr S has told us he has been in touch with the people 
who now live at address C, who he seems to know,  and HSBC is still using that address for 
him. This is, of course, consistent with HSBCs earlier comments that Mr Ss 
correspondence address has remained as (address C) meaning all correspondence. has, 
and will continue, to be sent to this address unless Mr S confirms otherwise. I cannot tell 
HSBC to change the address details it holds for Mr S, but he may wish to contact it directly 
and promptly to correct its records. Putting things right
To put things right for Mr S, HSBC should put him into the financial position he would
have been in if it had sent him all the information it should have at the right time and he
had then closed the Advance account and not taken the Insurance Aspects package.
From the information I have, I cant tell exactly when this would have been. The earliest 
would have been during early 2013 (by which time HSBC may have sent the first annual
eligibility statement); and the latest would have been November 2014 (by which time
HSBC should have sent its letter about the Insurance Aspects package). So, HSBC should 
start the compensation from April 2014 as an approximate mid-point between the two 
extremes.
HSBC should therefore:
refund Mr S all the fees he paid for the Advance account from 1 April 2014 onwards,
refund Mr S all the fees he paid for the Insurance Aspects package,
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Mr S paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks for one.
If HSBC can show that Mr S gained financially from any of the banking benefits that came
with the Advance account during the relevant period (for example, he may have saved
some money when he overdrew his account), then it may deduct the relevant amount from
the compensation worked out as above. If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its
calculation clearly and simply for Mr S, so he can follow what it has done. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding part of Mr Ss complaint about HSBC 
UK Bank Plc as I do not think it kept him up to date about his Advance account and the 
Insurance Aspects package. HSBC should now put things right for Mr S by paying him the 
compensation I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman