DRN-3332682
The complaint
Mr G complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
Background
In April 2017, Mr G acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr G was required to make 35 monthly repayments of £243. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £8,518.
Mr G says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a review of Mr Gs credit file and 
gathering proof of his income through his payslips. It noted that there was evidence of a 
defaulted debt on Mr Gs credit file but that this was 19 months prior and Mr G still met its 
lending criteria. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think she had the 
evidence to say whether the information Moneybarn had and the checks they did or 
shouldve done wouldve likely made a difference to the decision to lend.
Mr G didnt agree and said that his credit score was very poor and Moneybarn should not 
have provided him with the agreement.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr G about his income. I say this because it has said it received copies 
of Mr Gs payslips. These are recorded on the system notes and Moneybarn has said these 
showed Mr G to have an average net monthly income of £2,245. I havent been provided 
with anything that suggests this income figure isnt correct. Based on this income, the 
monthly instalments account for just under 11% of Mr Gs income which I do not think, of 
itself, raises any specific concerns.
Moneybarn completed a credit check. Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check 
it completed although it noted that Mr G had a historic defaulted account. Mr G has said that 
his credit file showed several issues and he has reiterated on several occasions that his poor 
credit score and the adverse information on his report meant the lending shouldnt have 
been provided. I havent seen a full copy of Mr Gs report from the time, but Mr G has 
provided extracts which show he had two county court judgements. These were historic, but 
this information, combined with the defaulted debt from 19 months prior to the agreement, 
shows that Mr G had previously experienced financial difficulties. Given the issues identified 
were historic at the time, I do not find that they alone mean the lending shouldnt have been 
provided. However, I think it meant that more thorough checks needed to take place to 
ensure the agreement was affordable for Mr G.  
Moneybarn didnt ask Mr G about his expenditure and although it completed a credit check, 
this wont have indicated what Mr Gs regular living expenses were. Given the comments 
above I think it reasonable and proportionate that additional information would have been 
gathered about Mr Gs expenditure. 
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr G to provide us with evidence of his 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, he hasnt given us 
enough information to fairly determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown 
Moneybarn. 
As Mr G hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman