DRN-3436460
Complaint
Miss M has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Bank of Ireland) irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable loan.
Background
Bank of Ireland provided Miss M with a Post Office Money branded personal loan for 
£20,000.00 in June 2020. The loan had an APR of 18.9% and the total amount of 
£30,105.60, which included interest of £10,105.60, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly 
payments of just over £500. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint. She thought that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have shown the loan to be unaffordable and so Bank of Ireland 
shouldnt have provided Miss M with this loan. 
Bank of Ireland disagreed with our investigators assessment and so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive considered this while deciding Miss Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that there are two overarching 
questions that I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint. These questions are:    
Did Bank of Ireland carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss M would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would such checks have shown that Miss M would have been able to 
do so?
Did Bank of Ireland act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these questions in turn.
Did Bank of Ireland carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that       
Miss M would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
The rules and regulations in place when Bank of Ireland lent to Miss M required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what 
she would owe in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bank of Ireland had to think about whether 
sustainably repaying any amounts lent would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Miss M. In practice this meant that Bank of Ireland had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other 
words, it wasnt enough for Bank of Ireland to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Miss M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Bank of Ireland did what it needed to before 
providing Miss M with her loan. 
Were Bank of Irelands checks reasonable and proportionate
Bank of Irelands says Miss M applied for her loan online. It says that the information Miss M 
would have seen requested that she check whether she could meet the repayments on the 
loan as it was her responsibility to make the payments. Bank of Ireland also says Miss M 
was asked about her income and a credit check was carried out on her. Based on the 
information it had available and the fact that Miss Ms application score was above its 
internal minimum threshold, it was satisfied its checks were proportionate. 
Ive carefully thought about what Bank of Ireland has said. 
I want to start by saying that Im not aware of anything in the rules and regulations, or the 
industry codes of practice, which state, or even infer, that lesser standards or a lesser duty 
of care applies to affordability assessments conducted for online applications. So for the 
avoidance of doubt, I want to be clear in saying that as the regulated firm here it was Bank of 
Irelands responsibility to assess whether Miss Ms loan was affordable, notwithstanding the 
fact this application was made online. Im simply not persuaded by the argument that      
Miss Ms decision to proceed with the application despite the information she was provided 
with means Bank of Ireland met its obligations and responsibilities here. Ive also considered what Bank of Ireland said it did before providing this loan and while it 
has provided the details of the internal score Miss M achieved it hasnt provided any of the 
data which it says it obtained from the credit reference agency and which underpinned its 
decision to lend. It appears as though it simply expects me to accept that the loan was 
affordable simply because its systems approved it. And I think that its important for me to 
point that it doesnt automatically follow that a lender will have acted fairly and reasonably 
when providing a loan simply because it acted in line with its policy or an application met its 
minimum score. 
Considering Bank of Ireland says it gathered sufficient information to inform its lending 
decision, its extremely disappointing that Bank of Ireland hasnt provided it to me. This 
service cannot and will not look for evidence and construct an argument to support Bank of 
Irelands defence of Miss Ms complaint. If Bank of Ireland cant provide the information it 
relied on and describe why this information showed it was fair and reasonable to lend to 
Miss M, then I cant and wont reach the conclusion that its checks before providing this loan 
were proportionate. Without any evidence from Bank of Ireland to support its conclusions on 
this matter, I cannot and will not take it as read that its lending decision was fair. 
Im concerned at the reliance that Bank of Ireland has placed on the income check it says it 
carried out. Its fair to say that Bank of Ireland was advancing a significant sum of money 
here. And even on Miss Ms declaration of her income, the payments were going to take up 
almost 20% of her monthly income. Given the relatively significant proportion of  Miss Ms 
income being taken up by the payments, even on Bank of Irelands figures, I would have 
expected Bank of Ireland to have taken care to ensure Miss Ms declaration of income was 
accurate before proceeding to lend.
Bank of Ireland has said it used a credit reference agency to validate Miss Ms income and it 
hasnt been entirely clear or forthcoming on what this entailed. I am assuming that the data it 
used either compared the income Miss M declared on this application to what shed declared 
on others made to her bank and other lenders, or it compared Miss Ms declaration of her 
income to the amount going into her bank account each month. Either way, as far as I can 
see, at best, Bank of Ireland merely cross-referenced what Miss M declared and I dont 
consider that this is the same as verifying her income. 
 
Equally, Im also concerned that while Bank of Ireland says the information it obtained on 
Miss Ms credit history showed no adverse information and it hasnt evidenced this, the 
evidence Miss M has provided shows that she had a number of credit accounts with debt 
collections agencies. Given Bank of Ireland hasnt provided the output of its credit checks 
despite having been given ample opportunity to do so, Im prepared to accept what Miss M 
has provided as being indicative of what any reasonable credit check is likely to have shown. 
Miss Ms previous difficulties repaying credit, the amount being advanced and the proportion 
of Miss Ms declared income being taken up by the monthly repayments, leave me satisfied 
that it is reasonable and proportionate to have expected Bank of Ireland to have obtained 
further information before determining that this loan was affordable for Miss M. As theres no 
evidence that Bank of Ireland asked for, or considered, further information to properly 
scrutinise and the matters Ive highlighted, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before providing Miss M with her loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Bank of Ireland that Miss M
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Bank of Ireland that Miss M wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
As Ive explained, Miss M has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at 
the time she applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different 
things. And just because something shows up in the information Miss M has provided, it 
doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks Bank of Ireland mightve carried out. But in 
the absence of anything else from Bank of Ireland showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Miss Ms financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time. 
Ive seen the comments Bank of Ireland has made regarding our investigators consideration 
of Miss Ms bank statements and that the regulators rules do not specify that these need to 
be reviewed before an application is approved. So I want to be clear in stating that Ive not 
looked at Miss Ms bank statements because I think that Bank of Ireland ought to have 
obtained them before lending to her. Ive consulted Miss Ms bank statements because they 
were readily available at this stage and they contain the information I now need to 
reconstruct the proportionate check Bank of Ireland should have but failed to carry out.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Miss M was 
earning substantially less than Bank of Ireland believed her to be. And her actual income 
was pretty much being used to meet her existing commitments and even then the fact that 
some of her accounts ended up with debt collection agencies shows that she was failing to 
meet some of them. Furthermore, Miss Ms bank statements also show that she was 
significantly overdrawn too. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss M was already reliant on credit and in a 
difficult financial position. I think this, in itself, demonstrates that Miss M was unlikely to have 
been able to make the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering 
undue difficulty. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would more likely than not have alerted Bank of Ireland to the fact that Miss M would 
not be able to sustainably make the repayments to this loan. 
Did Bank of Ireland act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Bank of Ireland acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in some other 
way.
Did Miss M lose out as a result of Bank of Irelands shortcomings?
Miss M has paid and is being expected to pay additional interest and charges as a result of 
being unfairly provided with this loan. Miss M had to pay this additional interest at a time 
when she was already finding it difficult to repay what she owed. So Im satisfied that Miss M 
has lost out because of what Bank of Ireland did wrong and Bank of Ireland needs to put 
things right.
Fair compensation  what Bank of Ireland needs to do to put things right for Miss M
Ive given a lot of careful thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case. And 
I think that Bank of Ireland needs to do the following to put things right for Miss M.Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Miss Ms loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss M made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£20,000.00 originally lent. Bank of Ireland should treat any payments made should 
the new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments, if 
there are any, should be refunded to Miss M;
Adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss M to the date of settlement;
If an outstanding balance remains on Miss Ms loan once these adjustments have 
been made, Bank of Ireland should contact Miss M to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this.
If, after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains, Bank of 
Ireland should remove any and all adverse information it may have recorded about 
this loan from Miss Ms credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Ireland to take off tax from this interest. Bank of 
Ireland must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman