DRN-2301946
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under his landlords 
property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P has a landlords property insurance policy with Aviva which covers a number of 
properties he owns.
He made a claim in February 2020 after tiles were dislodged form the roof of one of the 
properties during a violent storm.
Aviva declined the claim after looking at photographs of the roof damage sent to them by 
Mr P. They say the roof wasnt in a satisfactory state of repair and the damage was primarily 
due to wear and tear.
Mr P disagreed and made a complaint to Aviva. When they maintained their position, he 
brought his complaint to us. 
Mr P wants Aviva to pay for the cost of repairs to the roof. These amount to around £1,700. 
A scaffold had to be erected at the property  at a cost of just over £1,400 - to allow repairs 
to be carried out  at a cost of just over £300.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about what Mr Ps policy says. Under General Policy Exclusions it says 
Aviva wont pay for damage to the property unless you (the customer):
maintain the property in a satisfactory state of repair. and. take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent. damage to the property
Aviva asked their surveyor to look at the photographs provided by Mr P when he made the 
claim. 
In the surveyors view, the roof wasnt maintained in a satisfactory state of repair. They 
thought the mortar which held on most of the dislodged tiles had deteriorated over time. And 
they pointed to vegetation and mud blocking the valleys in the roof.
Mr P disagrees with that analysis. He says there was a particularly violent storm at the time 
in question and he believes this was the cause of the tiles becoming dislodged. He points 
out that two of the dislodged tiles are in the middle of the roof and werent ever intended to 
be held in place by mortar.
Theres no dispute that there was a violent storm at the time the damage occurred. And 
theres no doubt that kind of storm can cause the kind of damage we see in this case even if 
a roof is well-maintained.
The question for us is simply then whether the storm was the sole or main cause of the 
damage  to an otherwise well-maintained roof  or whether it simply exposed underlying 
issues with the roof which would have become apparent sooner or later when exposed to 
winds and/or rain.
Only one expert on these matters has expressed a view on that question in this case  
Avivas surveyor. They were very firmly convinced that the roof had suffered wear and tear 
and hadnt been maintained in a satisfactory state of repair.
I know Mr P thinks the surveyor  being employed by Aviva  is biased. I understand Mr Ps 
feelings about that, but theres no contrary expert evidence at present to make us question 
the surveyors expert view  and/or for that matter, their honesty and impartiality.
So, its impossible for me to conclude that Aviva have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Ps claim. It seems to me theyve followed their usual process for assessing 
claims. And theyve come to a conclusion which isnt on the face of it unreasonable given 
their experts view and the evidence (the photographs) on which thats been based.
Aviva have advised Mr P - in my view quite reasonably  that theyre happy to look at any 
expert report Mr P can provide which might call into question their own surveyors findings. 
Mr P thinks thats impossible now because the roof has been repaired. But any independent 
expert could look at exactly the same evidence  the photographs  Aviva had when they 
made their decision.
Mr P might ask why he should to be put to the expense of getting an independent surveyors 
report. Our view would be that, all else being equal, Aviva might be expected to reimburse 
him for that expense if the evidence he provides shows that their original view on the cause 
of the damage was clearly mistaken.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman