DRN-3636849
The complaint
K complains the Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) incorrectly processed a direct debit 
transaction.
What happened
K had set up, on the business account, a direct debit for ten payments payable at £219.53. 
While reconciling the account, K saw that in June 2021 £319.53 had been taken for the 
direct debit rather than £219.53. K spoke to the recipient who confirmed that theyd only 
received £219.53. K complained to BoI.
BoI said that the direct debit had been rejected and the transaction was made manually but  
had been incorrectly input as £319.53. They refunded K the £100 difference that had been 
incorrectly deducted from the account, and a further £100 for the inconvenience that had 
been caused.
K wasnt happy with BoIs response and queried why the difference in monies deducted but 
not paid to the recipient hadnt been picked up by the banks controls. K said they now 
doubted whether other direct debits set up across several accounts with BoI had been 
correctly actioned. K asked to be compensated for the time spent checking all the accounts. 
And questioned the banks controls as to why the difference hadnt been picked up before Ks 
own intervention. K referred the business complaint to us.
Our investigator said banking processes and procedures were the domain of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). While she agreed with the actions taken by BoI to resolve the 
complaint she said K had been without funds - £100 from June 2021 until January 2022 and 
said BoI should pay a further 8% simple interest to compensate K for this.
BoI didnt agree they said Ks complaint was about banking controls. They said theyd 
considered K not having the use of these funds and had included this when deciding to offer  
£100 for the trouble caused. The complaint has been escalated for an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Ks frustration about BoIs banking controls in thinking they should have 
identified the £100 discrepancy. But this service was set up to consider individual 
complaints, so its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to make findings about a 
businesss wider practices or processes  that is something for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to do. So, I wont comment on this part of Ks complaint.
Its not in dispute that BoI made an error and incorrectly debited Ks account by £100. And to 
resolve this theyve refunded the £100 and compensated K a further £100 for the 
inconvenience caused. Our investigator said that BoI should also pay 8% simple interest on 
the £100 debited from the account from June 2021 until January 2022 as K had been 
deprived of these funds during that time. BoI didnt agree with the addition of the simple 
interest as they said K hadnt complained about this and their resolution was fair and 
reasonable. So, my decision is to determine what the redress should be to put things right.
When upholding a complaint wed usually look to put the complainant back to the position 
they would be in if things had happened as they should. So, Ive considered whether there 
has been any financial loss, and in this case, there has been as Ks account was debited by 
£319.53 when the direct debit transaction made was for £219.53, a financial loss of £100. 
Ive also considered whether K has been out of pocket because of BoIs error. And I think 
this is also the case here. BoIs error meant that K didnt have use of or access to £100 from 
when it was deducted from his account in June 2021 until K brought it to BoIs attention in 
January 2022. 
So to compensate K for being deprived of money  that is, not having it available to use  
we can ask the business to pay interest on top of the financial loss award, for the period their 
customer was out of pocket. Our usual approach is to award 8% simple interest for the time 
the consumer was deprived of their funds. 
We can also make an award for distress and inconvenience. K has complained about his 
business account. And we wouldnt consider that a business can suffer distress. But I can 
see K has been inconvenienced in having to contact the recipient and BoI to get the matter 
looked at. BoI has accepted this and offered to compensate K £100 for the inconvenience 
caused to him, which I think is fair and reasonable. I know BoI thinks the loss of use is 
covered in their offer for the inconvenience that was caused. But as outlined above the 
simple interest is applied to the money award, as there is a financial impact, and not to the 
inconvenience payment.
If K remains concerned about BoIs processes and would like to take this forward, then he 
can raise this complaint with the regulator.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to:
refund the £100 discrepancy plus 8% simple interest from the date the direct debit 
was taken (June 2021) until the £100 discrepancy was refunded to K (January 2022)
pay K £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman