DRN-4432759
The complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK Plc delayed in getting her funds back after her 
application to switch the account couldnt go ahead.
What happened
On 5 February 2023, Miss W made an online application to switch her Santander account to 
another bank, F. She opened the account with F, but a few days later she was informed that 
as she already had an account with a bank in the same group she wasnt entitled to the 
switching incentive. F told her it had closed the account and returned the funds to 
Santander. Miss W contacted Santander on16 February and explained the position to one of 
its agents. She was told the switch would not go ahead providing it was cancelled. But the 
Santander account was closed on 20 February as it hadnt been told by F in time that the 
switch had been cancelled. It sent a cheque by post to Miss W for the balance on her 
account. 
Miss W called Santander on 1 March 2023 and was told the position. She was unhappy to 
receive a cheque and wanted the monies to be put into her account. She was told this wasnt 
possible as the account had been closed. On 7 March Miss W called into a branch of 
Santander as she still hadnt received the cheque. On 8 March Santander opened a new  
account and requested the transfer of the funds into the account. There was a delay in doing 
this and the transfer wasnt completed until 20 March. In the meantime Santander provided 
Miss W with £50 emergency funding. After completion of the transfer it paid a further £50 
into Miss Ws account.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Adjudicator said that as Santander 
failed to give Miss W correct information at the appropriate time, and as there were then 
delays in transferring the funds into her account, Santander should pay her a further £100. 
Santander agreed with the proposed compensation. 
Miss W did not agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were delays and errors in dealing with Miss Ws switching process. In this decision 
I shall concentrate on the issues where I consider that Santander was at fault, rather than 
the other bank involved.
Miss W made the switching request on 5 February 2023. She has explained that she wasnt 
very concerned about the switch not going ahead. But I see that she contacted Santander on 
16 February essentially to ask it what would happen to her money. By that time Santander 
hadnt received the cancellation notice from F so it was due to close Miss Ws account by 
20 February. Unfortunately she was not told that and then went through a number of days of 
anxiety not knowing where her money was and having no access to it. She was finally able 
to speak to  a complaints adviser on 8 March, who assured her that her funds were with 
Santander and set about opening a new account for her.
There were then further delays and issues with Miss Ws profile on Santanders system 
which it said it was able to remediate internally. After this, several requests had to be made 
with the back office and switch teams which caused further delays in transferring the funds 
to the newly opened account for Miss W.
I can understand Miss Ws frustration and distress, especially being concerned for a few 
days that her money had disappeared. She was, I think, reassured by Santander that the 
money hadnt disappeared. It was still in its accounts as the cheque it sent hadnt been 
cashed. As our Adjudicator pointed out, if she had been told on 16 February that her account 
had to close in four days Santander might have been able to retrieve the situation for her 
and advise her to open a new account immediately. 
Ive taken account of Miss Ws explanation about how the whole situation made her feel. Our 
Adjudicator summed that up in his view so I wont repeat all the details here. But I do think 
that a payment of £200, meaning that Santander will have to pay an additional £100, is fair 
and reasonable considering how long the matter took to resolve and the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss W in that time. Its also in line with awards we have made in 
similar circumstances.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Miss W an additional £100 compensation, on top of the £100 it has 
already paid.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Santander UK plc to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman