DRN-2973650
The complaint
Mr B complains that Experian Limited is reporting incorrect financial information. Mr B wants 
Experian to stop doing this and pay him compensation.
What happened
I should first say that although Mr B brought his complaint to this service together with his 
wife, Experians records show that he complained in his sole name. So, this service has just 
considered Mr Bs complaint and not that of his wife.
Mr B was unhappy with his Experian credit rating as it has dropped by one point. Mr B says 
that Experian included incorrect credit balance figures on his report. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. She didnt think Mr B 
had pointed to a specific issue with one of his creditors - just that he felt the recorded 
information was generally inaccurate. The investigator told Mr B that the information on his 
credit report isnt live so the total borrowing figure may not reflect the current position. The 
investigator explained that lenders dont see his Experian credit score.
Mr B wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. He said that Experian holds 
inaccurate information about his credit balances. Mr B says that he always pays the money 
due on his credit cards. Mr B wonders why his credit providers report to Experian when there 
is nothing unusual in the way in which he uses the accounts. 
Mr B says he asked for a free credit report, but it doesnt set out which company has given 
Experian the false information. Mr B thinks that the information on credit reports should be 
up to date and he is unhappy with the incomprehensible language used in the credit report.
In response, the investigator gave Mr B details of what balance each business was reporting 
to Experian in the period between March and May 2021. The investigator still didnt think that 
Mr Bs complaint should be upheld as she wasnt satisfied that Experian had done anything 
wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything the parties have given to me.
Mr B has expressed concern about the way in which Experian works. I should explain that 
this service resolves individual complaints. We dont look at how businesses work in general. 
Its the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  who regulates financial businesses and 
the Information Commissioners Office - who oversees data protection and information rights 
issues. So, I cant consider Mr Bs wider concerns about the way in which Experian works. 
Instead, I will focus on whether Experian did anything wrong in Mr Bs individual case.
Mr B confirms the credit accounts belong to him but doesnt think the figures Experian quote 
are accurate. Experian explained to Mr B that the figures reflected on his credit report wont 
be up to date. This is because Experian receives updates every four to six weeks. The 
balances reflect the last update and not necessarily the current position. I dont find Experian 
has made a mistake  its just the way that the reporting of credit information typically works. 
And as Ive already said, it would be for the regulator to look at concerns about the timing 
and frequency of the reporting of credit information rather than this service.
Mr B confirms that he uses his credit card to manage his finances. Even though Mr B makes 
his payments on time or even early; depending on the point at which his credit provider 
reports to Experian, the outstanding balance may alter. Just because Mr B makes his 
payments on time or in advance and generally manages his credit very well, doesnt mean 
that lenders shouldnt report this information or that Experian is wrong to process it. 
Broadly speaking, Experian must rely on the information the lenders give to it. Experian has 
given us confirmation of the balances it received from Mr Bs lenders. If he remains unhappy 
with the figures, I would recommend that Mr B approaches the individual businesses. 
Lenders dont see Mr Bs Experian credit score  its simply an indication of how a potential 
lender may view an individuals credit rating rather than a formal assessment. Instead 
lenders rely on their own criteria and assessment to decide whether to lend. A decrease of 
one point could be due to any number of factors and doesnt mean that Experian has done 
anything wrong in the way it processes Mr Bs information. 
Experian told Mr B in its final response that to help him understand why his credit score has 
dropped, he should review a full copy of his Experian credit report. I understand that Mr B 
has a free Experian account that gives him access to his credit score and report summary.  If 
he wants to speak to Experian about his current credit score, I recommend that he follows 
the instructions that Experian gave in its final response. Having the full or statutory report 
should also help Mr B approach the businesses that report to Experian if he wants to discuss 
the balances on his accounts in more detail. 
Mr B has commented that the credit reports should be written in a way that is meaningful to 
people who read them. Im sorry that Mr B doesnt find the format appropriate, but I dont 
require Experian to make changes. Again  this would be something for the regulator to 
consider rather than this service.
Overall, I dont find that Experian has made a mistake, so I dont require it to take any further 
action in relation to Mr Bs complaint. Im sorry that this is likely to come as a 
disappointment. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman