DRN-1471705
Complaint
Mr S complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc hasnt correctly paid share 
dividends into his building society savings account. He is concerned that despite him 
providing details for the account into which he wished to receive the funds, the payments 
have been rejected on several occasions. 
Background
Mr S holds shares in an account with Computershare. He provided instructions to 
Computershare of the building society savings account that he would like dividends to be 
paid into. 
In December 2017, he received a letter to say there had been an issue with his holdings and 
his bank details. When he inquired about this, he was told that the transaction to pay his 
dividends into his building society account had failed. Computershare looked into it and said 
it was not its fault. It paid Mr S the money he was due by cheque.  
In July 2018, Mr S was due to receive further dividends but the payment from 
Computershare to his building society account failed again. Mr S received the same 
notification that there had been a problem with his holdings. He contacted Computershare as 
he was frustrated that the payment hadnt been processed correctly. He said his wife held 
the same share holdings and are her dividends had been paid correctly into their joint 
building society account. Computershare again looked into it and said it thought the issue 
had been resolved, but as it hadnt it sent Mr S a cheque for the money he was due. 
In December 2018, the same issue happened again and Mr S didnt receive his dividend 
payments. He escalated his concerns and complained to both Computershare and his 
building society.  He again received his dividends by cheque from Computershare. He 
received responses from both businesses but remained unhappy as neither accepted 
responsibility for the problem. Both businesses suggested the issue relates to the format of 
how the account details were sent but didnt believe it was their fault. Mr S felt both parties 
are being economical with truth and didnt seem to be willing to take appropriate action to 
resolve it. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service  and cases were set up both against 
Computershare and his building society. This decision is concerned solely with the actions of 
Computershare. In that regard, the investigator found that the issues centred around the 
information passed between the two businesses  in particular the format used to describe 
the account the money should be sent to. He found that the differing processes of 
Computershare and the building society meant the payment couldnt be made as expected. 
But the investigator thought the problems were as a result of an unfortunate string of 
incidents of miscommunication between all parties  so didnt think it would be fair to place 
blame just on one. He thought Computershare had acted fairly by sending Mr S a cheque for 
the dividends due and offering him the choice to have future dividends paid into a different 
account. Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He raised several points about the 
processes of the two businesses involved. And he has raised many questions about the 
information provided by Computershare to explain why the payments werent made. Mr S 
raised concerns about why his wife was able to receive her dividends from Computershare 
into the same savings account. He also felt there were wider implications to the situation and 
impact on other customers  including potential for financial fraud. 
Our investigator considered the additional points made by Mr S but they didnt change his 
thinking on the complaint. As no agreement could be reached, Mr S asked for an 
ombudsman to reach a decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to reassure Mr S, that Ive read all the correspondence in the file when deciding 
the complaint. I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent commented on every 
specific point raised but its not because Ive failed to take it into account. Ive instead 
concentrated my findings on what I believe to be the key factors in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
Ive first considered whether errors by Computershare are the cause of the dividend 
payments not being received correctly into Mr Ss savings account. Theres been 
contradictory and unclear information that has been provided by both Computershare and 
the building society. This makes it very difficult to understand exactly why the payments 
have failed. Both our investigator and Mr S have attempted to gather information to establish 
the root cause of the problem, but it has proved difficult to say precisely who is at fault. 
Ive reviewed the information that has been passed between the two businesses when trying 
to establish why the payments failed. What is clear from this is that the requirements and 
expectations of the two businesses differ in what format they expect the account information 
to be displayed. Computershare and the building society have provided reasons for their 
requirements. I accept this isnt something Mr S can easily influence or practically change. 
But I can see how frustrating it must be for him that the two businesses couldnt find a way to 
allow the payments to be processed in a smooth way by bank transfer. 
Ive also noted the comments Mr S has made about his wifes dividend payments 
successfully being paid into their savings account. Computershare hasnt been able to 
provide an explanation for this. I can appreciate why he finds it difficult to understand why 
this is possible but not for his dividends. From information provided by the building society, it 
seems most likely the reason for Mr Ss wifes payment going through is due to a manual 
intervention by the building society when the payment is sent. If this is correct it would be 
outside of Computershares control to know whether a payment could be made.
Based on everything Ive seen, the most likely reason the payments are failing is because 
the two businesses are running separate processes with different requirements, which arent 
compatible. I appreciate that this isnt the answer Mr S is looking for but I havent found that 
Computershare are at sole fault and it did offer him an alternative solution to make sure he 
received his dividend payments on time. This gave Mr S an opportunity to mitigate the 
problem and reduce the impact on himself.  Computershare first provided Mr S with an 
opportunity to provide an alternative account to receive payments in January 2018 and then 
again in August 2018.  Although Mr S hasnt told us he how he wishes his future payments 
to be made, Computershare has told us that the payments for last year were all made by 
cheque. Having considered everything, I cant fairly say Computershare have made an error or acted 
wrongly, which has resulted in Mr Ss payments not going through. Ultimately, this is a 
situation where the commercial decision it made about how to process payments has meant 
they wont go through automatically to the account Mr S would prefer them to go to. Because 
of this Computershare has said it wont try to pay Mr Ss dividends in this way but will send 
them by cheque. Overall I think that Computershare has exercised its commercial 
judgement legitimately and treated Mr S fairly and reasonably. Its systems arent able to 
process the payments in the way Mr S would like but I am satisfied it has offered reasonable 
alternatives which dont put Mr S to any material inconvenience.
Im also satisfied that Computershare has acted fairly in ensuring that Mr S did receive his 
payments reasonably quickly after the failed payments. It has confirmed that it sent the 
payments by cheque shortly after the payments were returned by the building society. Mr S 
hasnt raised any concerns about not receiving monies he was due. Im satisfied that 
Computershare took reasonable steps to limit the impact on Mr S.  
However, I think there are things Computershare could have done better  particularly how it 
first communicated with Mr S that there was an issue with the payment.  But while it could 
have done things better, Im satisfied it was trying to uncover the root cause of the problem. 
And I agree, sometimes it wasnt incredibly clear in its communication this seems most likely 
because it didnt know itself what the answer was. I appreciate he has spent time trying to 
resolve the issue. However, in my view any inconvenience or time Mr S had to spend was 
caused by the unfortunate situation rather than specific failings on Computershares part. For 
this reason, Im not asking Computershare to do anything further. 
Ive considered the comments Mr S has made about wider implications and potential 
financial fraud. As part of my findings, Im able to consider the individual impact on Mr S, so 
it wouldnt be appropriate to comment on the impact on other customers. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr S but I dont agree that further investigation is needed for 
me to reach a fair outcome on this complaint. I understand he plans to raise his concerns 
with the regulator but for the same reason I cant comment on the likely outcome. 
Im satisfied when the automated transfers failed, no payments were missed as 
Computershare sent cheques reasonably quickly. So Mr S didnt lose out on having the 
money he was due. And I dont think Computershare were purposefully trying to avoid or 
withhold payments that were due to Mr S. I havent seen anything else to suggest that 
Computershare were acting in an unfair or unreasonable way when dealing with the 
payments. Mr S says a more forensic investigation into the processes of both the building 
society and Computershare, would uncover malpractice but I havent seen evidence to 
support that this is warranted. And in any event that is beyond the scope of my role in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ss complaint.   
In considering everything that has been said, I accept that there has been fault on 
Computershares part in how it has dealt with the situation. But I dont think these faults have 
caused Mr S a financial loss or material distress or inconvenience. So I wont be directing 
Computershare to take any further action. My conclusion is that the two businesses involved 
have incompatible processes, meaning there is a high risk payments wont be complete 
correctly. While I can understand Mr Ss decision to pursue the matter, he has been offered 
a solution by Computershare to mitigate the problem. I also appreciate that Mr S would like 
further investigation to be completed but I dont believe this is to be proportionate to the 
situation or likely change my overall thinking. 
My Final Decision 
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman