DRN-3970921
Complaint
Ms M has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Ms M with a loan for £3,000.00 in December 2017. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £280. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms M and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms M unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Ms Ms complaint be upheld. 
Ms M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Ms Ms application after she provided details of her 
monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and copies of bank statements that it 
obtained. In its view all of this information showed Ms M could afford to comfortably make 
the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Ms M has said she should never 
have been provided with this loan because of her existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms M and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Everyday Loans carried out a credit check on Ms M and 
obtained a payslip and bank statements from her. So I dont think that this was a case of 
Everyday Loans simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable 
income at face value. Everyday Loans credit search does show that Ms M had some 
outstanding debts. 
Im mindful that there wasnt anything obvious in the additional information gathered during 
this application which contradicted the conclusion that the monthly payments were 
affordable. Indeed when all of the non-discretionary commitments on Ms Ms bank 
statements are factored in, it looks like she had enough left over to make the payments to 
this loan. And Id also point out that neither the credit checks nor Ms Ms bank statements 
from the time clearly show payments to a second car finance agreement either.   
Furthermore, I note that this loan was taken for the purpose of consolidating existing debts. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that Ms M wouldnt be able to make the repayments 
to this loan had she consolidated her existing debts in the way she said she was going to. 
Indeed, although this loan was expensive and while it did increase the length of time Ms M 
had to make payments for, theres no doubting that Ms M would have been able to afford the 
repayments and would have had an increased monthly disposable income as long as she 
cleared her existing debts. 
I accept that Ms Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Everyday Loans obtained. I know she says that 
she struggled to repay this loan. This could be because Ms M didnt clear, or went on the re-
establish, balances on her revolving credit accounts. But Everyday Loans couldnt have 
known this would happen and it couldnt close Ms Ms revolving credit accounts to prevent 
further spending because they were held with other providers. It was Ms Ms responsibility to 
close these accounts if and when she repaid the balances.  
Equally, as this was Ms Ms first loan with Everyday Loans, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonably entitled to believe that Ms M would settle her existing debts with the proceeds 
from this loan. And that it wouldnt be increasing Ms Ms existing indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Everyday Loans to lend here. As 
this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Ms M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Ms M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Ms M. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman