DRN-4130633
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about the early repayment charge (ERC) they incurred when 
they redeemed their mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Theyve said they only had two months remaining of the ERC period, so Lloyds charging the 
£4,250 ERC is immoral profiteering as the two monthly payments only amounted to around 
£1,000. They said they were happy to make the two monthly payments, or to split the 
difference.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held their mortgage with Lloyds, and in November 2020 they received a 
mortgage offer setting out a new interest rate product they had applied to switch to. The offer 
shows a mortgage balance of just under £427,000 which was held on an interest-only basis 
over a 3-year term. The interest rate was fixed at 1.41% until 31 January 2023, with an ERC 
for that same period. 
In mid-2022 Mr and Mrs P accepted an offer to sell their house, and they were aiming for a 
completion date in November 2022. They said they had anticipated the property would be on 
the market for longer and so then a sale wouldnt have completed until after the ERC period 
ended.
They complained to Lloyds about the ERC. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint and so 
Mr and Mrs P referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator obtained information from Lloyds to show how the ERC had been calculated 
and, having done so, she didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied it was a 
reasonable pre-estimate. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather less detail than the 
parties have presented them. I recognise that Mr and Mrs P feel very strongly about this, and 
I thank them for the thoroughness of their submissions. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but its because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this; its 
merely a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB) includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC 
must be able to be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it 
calculates an ERC, and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of 
similar type, rather than for individual loans. 
Lloyds is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of Mr and Mrs P ending 
their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination 
of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Lloyds is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. 
For some individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it 
will be an under-calculation. But thats allowed; Lloyds doesnt have to refund the difference, 
but equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
Lloyds has provided evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this group of 
mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Lloyds has provided 
is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and so I wont 
be disclosing it to Mr and Mrs P. 
The information from Lloyds shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. 
It shows that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of 
the capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial 
instruments that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future 
losses. Ive looked carefully at what Lloyds has said and I consider it is a fair way to 
calculate the ERC. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P were very near to the end of the tie-in period and that the 
amount of the ERC appears out of proportion to the amount of payments that were due 
under the fixed rate. But Im afraid that isnt a factor in how the ERC is calculated nor is the 
actual cost to Lloyds of this individual mortgage being repaid at the exact time it was. MCOB 
only requires Lloyds to make a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the mortgage 
being repaid early across a range of similar mortgages. I consider that is what Lloyds has 
done. And based on the information presented to me I consider it was reasonable for it to 
charge the ERC it did.
Ive looked very carefully at what Lloyds has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate 
the ERC. In the circumstances, Im satisfied: 
Lloyds was entitled to charge Mr and Mrs P the ERC set out in their mortgage contract when they repaid their mortgage early.
There was no requirement for Lloyds to only charge an amount worked out based on 
Mr and Mrs Ps individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to charge 
an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of 
mortgages of similar type. 
The calculations provided to us by Lloyds demonstrate the ERC set out in the contract 
was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs for that group of mortgages. 
Overall, for the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman