DRN-2525613
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance 
claim (PPI), that he said he didnt authorise them to make. 
What happened
Mr H said he hadnt signed any instructions for Allay to pursue PPI claims on his behalf. But, 
in July 2019, he said hed started to look at their on-line enquiry but hadnt completed it as 
they were asking too many questions. 
In March 2020 Mr H received a compensation offer from his lenders Ill call L . And shortly 
after an invoice from Allay asking him to pay their fee for his successful claim. He 
complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr H, in July 2019, had electronically signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing 
them to pursue a PPI claim on his behalf  to L. And that their terms and conditions were 
attached to the LoA. On receipt of the LoA theyd passed Mr Hs details to L for them to 
check if he had any PPI policies with them. And they updated Mr H by email about his claim.
Allay said they also asked Mr H to complete a PPI questionnaire to support his claim that 
hed been mis-sold PPI. In March 2020, Allay was told by L that Mr Hs claim had been 
successful. As Mr H hadnt cancelled his agreement with them, they asked him to pay their 
success fee. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Allays response. He said theyd given conflicting information. And 
the signature on the LoA wasnt his. Allay had said the signature was made on a phone or 
iPad, and Mr H said he didnt have either only a laptop which didnt have a touchscreen 
facility. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said  it was more likely that Mr H had authorised Allay to make a claim for 
mis-sold PPI on his behalf. And that theyd submitted his claim which had been successful. 
He said Allays fees were justified.
Mr H didnt agree and reiterated he hadnt signed the LoA  and hadnt authorised Allay to act 
for him. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration as he doesnt agree that he asked Allay to look into 
whether he had any PPI. He strongly feels that he didnt supply the information theyd used 
and the signature on the LoA wasnt his.
It isnt our role to determine whether a signature has been forged or not, that would be for a 
criminal court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, this means were 
impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story 
because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision 
on what I think most likely happened. So, I need to determine whether, on balance, if I think 
Mr H authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And if he had, whether he let them know he no 
longer wanted them to work for him. Ill also consider whether I think Allay has acted fairly 
and reasonably in their actions with Mr H.
Its not in dispute that Mr H was looking into PPI claims and the services Allay provides. Mr H 
said he never completed the application for Allay to start checking whether he had PPI. But  
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019.  Some of 
the personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr H has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mr Hs lender, and these details were  
provided. So, on balance I think  Mr H completed the on-line form as the information was 
specific to him. As I think Mr H completed the on-line application, Ive no reason to doubt he 
also added his signature for the application to be submitted.
With the LoA, Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA 
Mr H had agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
And in October 2019 Mr Hs lender L told Allay that theyd found a PPI policy for him. From 
Allays records I can see they sent an email the next day to Mr H (the same e mail address 
provided to us) that says, Great News. And explains that PPI had been found. This doesnt 
automatically mean that a PPI claim will be successful, as the claim needs to show the PPI 
policy was mis-sold.  Within this notification there would have been a link to a PPI 
questionnaire to provide supporting information for the PPI claim. I cant see any evidence 
that Mr H completed the PPI questionnaire.
But, in 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. This 
meant a lender could investigate a claim based on the details sent in a LoA. Lender L didnt 
ask for any further documents for Mr Hs claim to progress.
In February 2020, Allay was told by L that Mr H needed to go into branch to update his 
address details. And I can see in March 2020  L sent the offer of compensation to both Mr 
H and Allay. I think this shows L accepted Allay had authority to represent Mr H in making 
his PPI claim. So, Im satisfied, on balance that Mr H authorised Allay to act on his behalf in 
pursuing a PPI claim for him.
I will now look to see whether Mr H asked Allay to stop working for him. 
The terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with usAnd goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing.
Allay told Mr H that PPI had been found on 30 October 2019, and so Mr H would have had 
14 days from then to cancel the agreement. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr H 
asked Allay to cancel his agreement either within or after the 14-day cooling off period. And 
despite further contact from Allay I havent seen any evidence that Mr H asked Allay to stop 
or question them as to why they were still contacting him. The claim may not have been 
formalised according to Mr H, but its not enough that he simply disengaged from the 
process. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of 
the 14-day cooling off period, theyd submitted his PPI claim to L.  I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr H made a claim directly with L, so I think L investigated Mr Hs claim 
based on the LoA sent by Allay. And Mr Hs claim was successful.
The agreement Mr H had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
And Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim 
they submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mr Hs claim as their agreement 
hadnt been cancelled. And his claim was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr H agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Mr H could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by Mr H to act on his behalf and his claims were successful. This means Allay can charge 
their fees for these claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman