DRN-3070443
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) cancelled his direct debit, used the same 
reference on his new direct debit, and reported arrears on his credit file.
What happened
In December 2016 Mr B hired a car, financed by a four year credit agreement with Lex. He 
made monthly repayments by direct debit at the end of each month, starting in January 
2017.
In early September 2020, shortly before the hire agreement was due to end, there was a 
technical glitch with Lexs systems, which resulted in Mr Bs direct debit for that month being 
taken about four weeks early. When he phoned Lex about this, they advised him to ask his 
bank to reverse the payment, which was done. But a few days later, Lex paid him a refund, 
as part of a batch of payments to a large number of customers who had also been affected 
by the same error. This meant that he now owed Lex two payments  the second refund, 
and the regular payment which fell due at the end of the month.
In that same month, on 10 September, Mr Bs direct debit was cancelled. There was a 
dispute about whose fault that was, with Mr B and Lex each blaming each other, but Mr Bs 
bank says that it was Lex, and Lex has since accepted this evidence. However, Lex still 
argues that the cancellation of the direct debit is not the only reason for what happened 
afterwards.
Mr B complains that Lex began to send him arrears letters  which he describes as 
threatening  demanding payment. On 28 September, being the day when his direct debit 
would normally have been paid if it had not been cancelled, he made the full payment for 
that month by way of a money transfer. But the account was still in arrears, because of Lexs 
refund.
On 23 October, Mr B phoned Lex and arranged a payment plan for the arrears. He also set 
up a new direct debit for his regular payments during the same call. On 29 October, he made 
the first payment under the plan. But the first new regular direct debit payment was not made 
until 26 November. No regular payment was made in October, so the arrears increased. 
Then on 18 December, Mr B cancelled the new direct debit. (This has been confirmed by his 
bank.) This meant that the last payment under the hire agreement, which was due at the end 
of that month, was not made either. The payment plan continued until April 2021.
Mr B complained to Lex about the impact on his credit file. Lex offered to pay him £50, partly 
for the original system error and partly for not communicating with him enough. But it said it 
had reported accurate data to the credit reference agencies. Being dissatisfied with that 
response, Mr B brought this complaint to our service. He asked for all adverse information to 
be removed from his credit file. He also said he should be compensated with a full months 
payment (which he told us was £378, but is actually £381).
Our investigator upheld this complaint, on the ground that everything that had gone wrong 
had been the result of Lexs system error. He recommended that Lex remove from Mr Bs 
credit file all of the adverse information it had reported since September 2020, and also pay 
him £150. Neither party accepted this opinion, and so this case has been referred to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is clear evidence from an independent third party that Lex was responsible for 
cancelling the original direct debit in September. It is not in dispute that the original system 
error was Lexs fault. Mr B still made his September payment on time, by other means. So 
the arrears in that month were not his fault, and it would be inaccurate and unfair to report 
arrears for that month on his credit file. They should be removed.
Lex has criticised Mr B for waiting until 23 October before taking any further action. 
However, on that day he set up a new direct debit for his monthly payments going forward. 
As Ive said, no direct debit was taken that month, but I dont think Mr B foresaw that, and he 
probably presumed that the direct debit would be taken on time at the end of the month. 
I have listened to the recording of the call in which the direct debit was set up, and the call 
handler did not warn him that there might not be enough time to collect the first payment in 
time for October. I think if it was too close to the payment due date to guarantee that the 
payment would be taken by direct debit, then Lex ought to have warned him about that. 
I appreciate Lexs argument that Mr B could have phoned earlier than the 23rd. But Mr B 
probably thought he still had enough time to make his October payment by direct debit, and 
ultimately this situation only came about because of Lexs cancellation of his original direct 
debit.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable to direct Lex to remove 
the October arrears from Mr Bs credit file, and to substitute a marker indicating that he was 
on a payment plan. The month of November 2020 should be reported in the same way.
Mr B made his first payment under the payment plan on 29 October. Since he was only on a 
payment plan in the first place because of Lexs system error, I have thought about whether 
that should be removed from his credit file as well. However, on balance I think not. He has 
provided his bank statements which show that he could have afforded to pay the September 
arrears in full in September or October, without need for a plan. He has also told us that he 
did not think that a payment plan would significantly affect his credit score. Im not sure that 
I agree with that, but the point here is that he chose to accept the impact on his credit file, 
whatever it was. So the payment plan should continue to appear on his credit file, starting in 
October.
However, I think that Mr B is solely responsible for the cancellation of his direct debit on 
10 December, and for his account being in arrears in December and afterwards. He has told 
us that the reason he cancelled it was because his hire agreement had ended, but that is not 
correct. His first of 48 payments was made in January 2017, and so his last payment was 
due at the end of December. This was his mistake, and it does not flow from any error by 
Lex. So these arrears, from January 2021 on, are correctly reported on his credit file.
I therefore cannot be satisfied that the difficulties Mr B has experienced in obtaining credit 
would not still have happened anyway.
I have read the arrears letters in September, and I dont agree that they are threatening. They only give a normal warning that arrears will be reported on his credit file. However, they 
must still have been annoying and stressful to receive, because Mr Bs account was only in 
arrears in September as a result of Lexs system error and through no fault of his own. For 
that reason, I agree with our investigator that Lexs offer of £50 did not go far enough. I think 
that £150 would more fairly reflect the impact of Lexs errors.
I am currently minded to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to any further representations 
I receive from the parties by the date below, I intend to order Lex Autolease Ltd to remove 
the arrears from Mr Bs credit file for the period from September to December 2020, and to 
substitute an arrangement to pay from October 2020. (I will not require any changes to his 
credit file for 2021.) I will also order Lex to pay him £150.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B said that he had cancelled the second direct debit for the regular monthly payments 
only after the agreement had come to an end and the car had been returned to Lex. He 
added that he had not realised that the payment plan was also being paid from the same 
direct debit, since Lex had used the same direct debit reference instead of a new one. He 
said his bank had advised him that using a new reference would have been better practice. 
The result had been that he had inadvertently stopped making payments on the payment 
plan without meaning to.
Lex had nothing to add.
My findings
The hire agreement began in December 2016, and the first monthly payment was made on 
24 January 2017. So the 48th and final payment was due around the end of December 
2020. Mr B cancelled the direct debit on 10 December, before the final payment was due, 
which meant that his account fell further into arrears (in addition to the existing arrears which 
were being repaid under the payment plan). That did not happen because Lex had used the 
same direct debit reference for the payment plan; it happened because Mr B intended to 
cancel the direct debit for the normal monthly repayments. So I think that the arrears which 
were reported after that were correctly reported.
I understand that Mr B did not mean to stop making payments under the payment plan as 
well, and that he would not have cancelled the direct debit when he did if he had realised 
that the existing arrears were being collected under the same reference. However, the 
regular monthly payments were £381.53, and the payments under the payment plan were 
less than half of that amount: £143.07. So it would have taken three payments (starting in 
October) to pay off the original arrears. That means that if Mr B had not cancelled the direct 
debit early, then the original September 2020 arrears would also have been fully paid off in 
December too. If Mr B had waited until the end of December to cancel the direct debit, there 
would have been no arrears to report (other than the new arrears which had accrued in 
October due to Lexs error, but in that case I would have upheld that part of this complaint 
and ordered Lex to remove the October arrears from Mr Bs credit file). So again I think that 
Lexs use of the same reference was not the cause of that problem, and that the arrears 
reported from January 2021 have been correctly reported (since they include the unpaid part 
of the September arrears and also the December arrears, which were not Lexs fault).
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Lex Autolease Ltd to remove the 
arrears from Mr Bs credit file for the period from September to December 2020, and to 
substitute an arrangement to pay from October to December 2020. (I do not require any changes to be made to his credit file for 2021.) I also order Lex Autolease Ltd to pay Mr B 
£150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman