DRN-4113356
The complaint
Miss R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd refuses to refund money she lost to a scammer. 
What happened
Miss R set up an account with an online marketplace so that she could sell some items, Ill 
refer to the company as V. After setting her account up and listing her items, Miss R 
received a sales notification. Miss R then received an email from V requiring her to verify her 
account so that they could ensure she was legitimate. During this time, she was also talking 
to the buyer of her item via Vs chat function. The instructions were that Miss R would need 
to make a card payment and it would be immediately refunded, then the proceeds from her 
sale would be released. Miss R completed the steps required using the verification link and 
proceeded to make the payment. She subsequently received a notification in her Monzo app 
to approve the payment. The payment was in a foreign currency and she knew V was based 
abroad, so she approved the payment. Once approved, Miss R visited her Monzo dashboard 
and saw that £514.05 had been taken on 29 September 2022. Shortly after this, Miss R 
came to the realisation that shed been scammed and the email wasnt from V and rather the 
scammer. Miss R also noted that the conversation she had with the buyer via Vs chat 
function had disappeared. 
Miss R reported the scam to Monzo immediately and over the next week spoke with them on 
multiple occasions. Monzo concluded it was unable to process a chargeback claim on Miss 
Rs behalf as shed authorised the payment and there werent any valid chargeback reason 
codes it could use. 
Unhappy with Monzos response and the customer service she received, Miss R referred her 
complaint to this service. She felt, amongst other things, Monzo should be refunding her loss 
based on the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.  
One of our Investigators didnt think Monzo should refund the disputed payment and she 
also felt Monzo handled things within a reasonable time. Miss R asked for an Ombudsman 
to review her complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Before I do, Im very sorry to see that Miss R has been the victim of such a cruel scam. My 
decision does not place any blame on Miss R from falling victim to this scam, I can 
appreciate why she genuinely believed the scammers email had come from V. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (i.e. Monzo) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
In my judgement, it was not unreasonable for Monzo to conclude it had no valid dispute 
grounds in order to process a chargeback claim on behalf of Miss R. Before Monzo can 
process a chargeback claim, valid grounds to do so must exist. Unfortunately, Mastercards 
rules dont cover the situation Miss R found herself in. As she authorised the payment 
through a degree of higher verification, Monzo couldnt have pursued a chargeback claim on 
the basis that the transaction was unauthorised as this wasnt the case. 
There also werent any other reason codes Monzo could have used because the other 
relevant codes first require there to have been an agreement for the purchase of goods or 
services. Here there was no evidence of an agreement between Miss R and the recipient of 
the funds and any evidence of the conversation Miss R had with the scammer had since 
been deleted in Vs chat function. 
Ive also considered whether Monzo had any other recourse to recover Miss Rs payment 
and Ive not seen that it did. Chargeback would have been its only option as Miss R used her 
Monzo debit card to instruct the payment. The CRM Code would only be applicable to bank 
transfers made to another person in the UK. Neither of these factors were present in Miss 
Rs payment. 
There might be occasions where Monzo can interrupt an authorised payment instruction and 
Ive seen our Investigator explained why it might do so. Here, I dont think there was 
anything unusual enough about Miss Rs payment instruction that would have led Monzo to 
reasonably believe she may have been falling victim to a scam. It was a single payment, not 
for a particularly large amount and Miss R went through additional verification checks to 
ensure she was instructing the payment. So I dont think Monzo ought to have interrupted its 
duty to instruct the payment. 
In summary, I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably by declining to take Miss Rs 
chargeback claim forward. I also dont think it could have reasonably suspected she may 
have been falling victim to a scam and therefore, I dont think it could have prevented it. 
Finally, Ive noted Miss R called and spoke with Monzo a number of times after shed 
reported the scam and I appreciate having to recount the events by speaking to different 
members of staff would have been frustrating for her. But I think Monzo reviewed the matter 
and provided an answer to Miss R within a reasonable time. And so I dont think it failed with 
regards to the customer service she received. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and despite my natural sympathy for Miss Rs loss, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Dolores NjemanzeOmbudsman