DRN-1822099
 
The complaint
Mr P complains about Union Reiseversicherung AGs (URV) settlement of his travel 
insurance claim. My references to URV include its agents.
What happened
Unfortunately, while on holiday Mr P was mugged and his gold necklace stolen. He made a 
claim under his travel insurance, insured by URV.
URV accepted the claim but as Mr P couldnt provide a receipt or proof of purchase it asked 
him to get a 'post loss valuation report' from a jeweler. Mr P got a report saying a 
replacement necklace would cost about £3,200. Mr P complained that URV only paid him 
£150 for the necklace and that the policy was misleading as it said it would pay up to £1,000 
if he was mugged.
URV said £150 was the maximum payment under the policy terms for un-receipted stolen 
personal possessions. As a goodwill gesture it also paid Mr Ps £31.20 taxi fare for when he 
went to the police station abroad to report the theft. URV said the £1,000 payment Mr P 
referred to was the maximum it would pay if Mr P had been hospitalised and hed claimed for 
emergency medical expenses following his mugging. Neither applied to Mr P so URV said 
he wasnt covered by the policy section about mugging.
Our investigator recommended URV pay Mr P an additional £100 to represent the 
necklaces original purchase price, plus interest. He said the policy terms were clear about 
when the £1,000 payment under the section on mugging applied and Mr P didnt meet the 
requirements.
URV agreed. Mr P didnt agree and he wants an ombudsmans decision. He detailed why he 
didnt think the policy was clear he had to be hospitalized to be paid £1,000 if he was 
mugged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly uphold this complaint. I have to decide whether URVs original settlement of Mr Ps 
claim was fair and I dont think it was. But I think its new offer to pay £250 in total is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Mr P feels strongly that the policy says hell be paid £1,000 for being mugged and Ive seen 
his detailed comments as to why he believes the policy document is misleading. 
Im satisfied the policy documentation isnt misleading. The Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) sets out information in bullet points about maximum payments under the 
sections of cover in the policy. The IPID clearly states:
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract 
which can be found in your policy documentation.
One of the bullet points of cover in the IPID says;
if you are mugged or highjacked £1,000.
I dont think Mr P can reasonably read that document to mean URV has to pay £1,000 if he 
was mugged without reference to any of the policy terms. The IPID is very clear the full 
terms of the insurance cover are in the policy document.
Page 3 of the policy document gives sums insured for each section of the policy and also 
gives page for the detailed policy terms for each section. Im satisfied the information is clear 
and it says Mr P needs to look at section B6 at page 23 under cover name If you are 
mugged. The policy terms at B6, page 23 under that section of cover say URV:
will pay £100 per 24 hour period up to a maximum of £1,000 each 24 hour period 
you are hospitalised following a mugging attack provided you are necessarily 
hospitalised in a public hospital and have submitted a claim for emergency medical 
expenses and provided us with written police report.
Mr P wasnt hospitalised and he didnt make an emergency medical expenses claim 
following being mugged. So URV reasonably said it didnt need to make any payment to him 
under that section of cover.
The relevant section of cover in the policy is if your possessions are lost, stolen damaged or 
delayed. URV fairly assessed Mr Ps claim under that section.
The policy terms in the section are clear that URV will pay a maximum of £400 for jewellery, 
for the original purchase price of the item, less an allowance for age, wear and tear but only 
£150 for un-receipted items. Theres also a proviso that Mr P has to own the items claimed 
for and is able to provide evidence of ownership and/or proof of purchase.
Mr P told URV the necklace was bought for him for £250 in 2004. So its understandable that 
he wasnt able to provide proof of purchase. But he was able to provide photos of him 
wearing the necklace and I think those photos are reasonable evidence of proof of 
ownership.
Putting things right
As the policy provides cover for the original purchase price of jewellery up to £400 and Mr P 
has provided evidence of ownership I think it's reasonable for URV to settle the claim by 
paying Mr P the original purchase price of the necklace, £250. URV has agreed to do so and 
I think its now paid Mr P the £100 balance plus interest, as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
If its not already done so I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr P £100 in addition 
to the £150 its already paid for his stolen necklace to represent the necklaces original 
purchase price of £250. Interest must be added at 8% simple a year from the date of 
payment of the original claim settlement to the date the additional £100 payment is/was 
made.
*If Union Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman