DRN-3552561
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) provided 
misleading information about the ongoing facility to purchase a crypto-derivative exchange 
traded note (ETN) via its platform. 
What happened
On 6 October 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced its intention to ban the 
sale of crypto-derivatives to retail consumers from 6 January 2021. 
Mr M already held one such crypto-derivative ETN  XBT Provider Bitcoin Tracker Euro 
(XBT Euro)  in his HL Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). A week or so after the 
FCAs announcement, on 14 October 2020, he sought clarification by email about whether 
hed be able to continue trading it up to the FCAs deadline. HL initially didnt respond.
On 27 October 2020 Mr M chased up his previous query and HL did then reply. It apologised 
and said it was in the process of deciding its policy and would let customers know when an 
outcome was reached. Mr M then asked that HL confirm that hed be given notice of any 
change and HL replied, If any changes are made to this policy prior to the 6 January 2020, 
then we will contact you directly to confirm this and what the impact of this would be.   
On 11 November 2020 Mr M discovered that XBT Euro could no longer be purchased via 
HL. He questioned this and was told the facility to purchase crypto-derivatives had been 
removed on 30 October 2020. HL initially told Mr M it had informed customers by secure 
message and letter. But it transpired the letters hadnt been sent, so as Mr Ms account was 
set up to receive post, he hadnt been provided with any notification of the change. 
Mr M complained, saying that HLs reply to his request of 27 October 2020 had been 
misleading. He felt it had confirmed that hed be given notice of any changes, and, as such, 
hed made several sales of XBT Euro on 28 and 29 October 2020 on the understanding he 
would be able to make further purchases of the product. He said if hed known further 
purchases wouldnt in fact be possible, he wouldnt have made the sales when he did, but 
would instead have done so later. He claimed a loss based on the price of XBT Euro in 
March 2021, a point at which he did make further sales of the product.
HL didnt agree the information provided to Mr M on 27 October 2020 had been misleading. 
In brief, it felt it had generally acted reasonably in respect of the changes it was required to 
make for crypto-derivatives, and it didnt consider that Mr M had been told hed be given 
prior notice of any change. HL did, however, offer him £50 to acknowledge some of the 
customer service issues hed encountered.
The complaint was then referred to this service and considered by an investigator. She also 
felt HL had acted reasonably in removing the facility to purchase the product and didnt feel
Mr M had been given any assurance that hed receive prior notice of the removal. But she 
did think HLs communications couldve been clearer and that this, coupled with the failure to 
send him a letter about the change, along with other service issues, warranted an increased 
compensation payment of an additional £100. 
Mr M didnt accept this. He stressed his complaint was focussed on what hed been told on 
27 October 2020 and the loss he felt hed incurred because of what he saw as a misleading 
statement from HL. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. So as no agreement could be 
reached, the matters been referred to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Several things went wrong during Mr Ms interaction with HL concerning this matter  for 
instance, initially failing to respond to his query, then insisting a letter had been sent to him 
when that wasnt the case. But its clear from his most recent submissions that he considers 
the crux of the matter to be the response provided to him by HL on 27 October 2020. This is 
what he considers led him to incur a significant loss. 
When HL replied to Mr Ms chaser email on 27 October 2020 it said we are currently 
reviewing this decision to see whether we will still be offering this investment up until (6 
January 2021). We will be contacting clients once this review has finished to let them know 
once the decision has been made. You can continue to invest into this at this time, but if 
there are any changes we will let you know.
Mr M replied to this, saying I understand that you are reviewing policy. However, please 
would you confirm that you will give some notice to me, personally, before I am affected by 
any policy change over and above no additional investment allowed from 6 January next 
year.
HLs reply, which was the last communication between the parties on 27 October 2020, said 
If any changes are made to this policy prior to the 6 January 2020, then we will contact you 
directly to confirm this and what the impact of this would be. If you have any other questions, 
please get back to me.
This last communication is key. Its this that Mr M says he relied upon in making his decision 
to sell some of his holding in XBT Euro over the following two days, on the basis he would 
be given warning of the purchase facility being removed, so hed have an opportunity to buy 
some more.
HL certainly failed Mr M in one aspect of the final email as it didnt contact him directly when 
the facility was removed - it didnt send a letter to him. However, its said that despite this 
acknowledged failing, Mr M wasnt disadvantaged as the removal of the purchase facility 
was communicated retrospectively, even to those customers who received a secure 
message. This was because HL had made the decision not to communicate the change in 
advance to avoid the danger of customers being unduly influenced and making forced 
purchases.
But did HL also fail Mr M by misleading him into thinking he would be given prior notice of 
the change? It was clear from his email that he was seeking confirmation that hed receive 
some notice. But looking carefully at the response he received, while I think the wording 
was maybe a little ambiguous, I dont think it can be said Mr M was provided with the 
confirmation he was seeking. 
HLs response said If any changes are made to this policy prior to the 6 January 2020, then 
we will contact you directly to confirm this There was no undertaking given that Mr M would be contacted prior to any change. I can see why he might have drawn the conclusion 
he did. But I nevertheless dont think there was an error on the part of HL. To my mind, it 
didnt make a statement that was incorrect.
I note Mr M feels that HLs failure to provide notice was a deliberate act of keeping its 
intentions secret. But I dont think theres anything that supports a finding that it was acting in 
bad faith when replying to him. Even if HLs response had used less ambiguous language, 
the most that couldve been said to Mr M at that specific point, 27 October 2020, was that 
there was currently no definitive information available, either about the timing of any change, 
or whether it would be notified in advance or retrospectively. Im satisfied that no decision 
had been made by HL at that point, so the staff member with whom Mr M was corresponding 
was simply not able to give him the confirmation he sought and, in my view, didnt do so.
Putting things right
I understand Mr M has indicated he feels the investigators suggested increase in 
compensation is condescending and that HLs customer service is not the focus of the 
complaint. But as there were acknowledged issues with how HL handled the matter, which 
clearly didnt help things, I will nevertheless award the additional £100, but Mr M is under no 
obligation to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay Mr M a total of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman