DRN-2122452
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement offered by Pen Underwriting Limited for his claim 
following a burst pipe under his garden.
What happened
Mr M has a home insurance policy thats underwritten by Pen. Towards the end of 2019 one 
of his neighbours reported problems with water pressure at their house. They instructed a 
contractor to investigate the problem and they identified the problem was being caused by a 
burst supply pipe in Mr Ms garden. 
Mr M arranged an emergency contractor to provide a temporary fix for the problem. He then 
made a claim on his insurance with Pen. 
As part of the claim he provided Pen with the receipt for the temporary repair and a quote for 
a permanent repair that involved taking up a paved area in his garden.
Penn accepted the claim however it said that as the supply pipe provided water to 6 homes, 
Mr M was only legally responsible for 1/6 of the cost. It therefore said it would only settle this 
proportion of the costs presented.
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said as the pipe was under his garden, and within his 
property boundaries, he would be responsible for the fix. So thought he should be covered 
for 100% of the cost of it. He was also unhappy about the length of time it had taken Pen to 
give him an answer to his claim. He made a complaint to Pen. 
Pen didnt uphold his complaint. It pointed to guidance from the water regulator that said 
properties had joint responsibility for pipes that supplied water to numerous homes. And that 
the policy only provided for damage to pipes Mr M is legally responsible for, so this would 
only be a proportion of the cost. However it accepted it had delivered poor service and 
offered Mr M £50 to make up for this.
Mr M didnt agree that it was fair to settle the claim proportionally. He said the regulator Pen 
had provided guidance from didnt regulate the area his property was in and provided 
guidance from another regulator that included different guidance. Pen didnt change its 
opinion, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr Ms complaint be upheld. 
She said that as the insured event happened in Mr Ms garden it was fair that the cost of the 
whole repair would be covered by the insurance.
Pen didnt agree and asked for the decision to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pen has accepted Mr Ms claim under the accidental damage section of his policy. However 
it says that is only liable to pay for a proportion of the cost under the policy. 
The relevant section states it will cover:
The cost of Accidental Damage to:
 Domestic oil pipes,
 Underground water supply pipes,
 Underground sewers, drains and septic tanks,
 Underground gas pipes,
 Underground cables,
serving the home and which you are legally responsible for.
So I can see the policy only provides cover for underground water pipes for which Mr M is 
legally responsible for.
Pen has said that as the water supply pipe provides water to five other properties, Mr M is 
only legally responsible for 1/6 of the cost of the damaged pipe. It has provided guidance 
from the water regulator that states that a Shared supply pipe serving more than one 
property is the Joint responsibility of all property owners served by pipe. 
However this regulator is specifically for water supplied in England and Wales. And Mr Ms 
property is in a different part of the UK. So I dont think these regulations fairly apply to 
Mr Ms supply pipe and are therefore not relevant to this case.
I have looked instead at the equivalent regulator for the area Mr Ms property is located in. 
And the guidance doesnt state specifically whether the responsibility of a shared supply pipe 
is split across all properties it supplies water to. Instead it talks only of a property owners 
responsibility for pipes under their own land, within their boundaries. As the guidance is 
silent on this matter, I think it is most fair to assume that property owners have the 
responsibility for pipes that are located within the boundary of their property. 
For that reason, I think that its reasonable that Mr M is solely legally responsible for the burst 
water pipe that falls within the boundary of his property. And therefore, under the policy, Pen 
are liable for 100% of the cost of repairing the insured peril. 
We would expect an insurer to provide an effective and long lasting repair, and to put the 
policyholder back in the position they would have been in had the peril not occurred. So on 
this basis, I think its fair for Pen to accept Mr Ms claim for the full cost of both the temporary 
repair and the permanent repair  including the making good of his garden after the repair.
I will also require Pen to pay 8% simple interest on any part of the claim that is cash settled, 
so make up for the time Mr M has been without the money.
I should add that should Pen wish to attempt to recover its outlay through other parties, I 
wont stand in its way of doing so.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, I require Pen Underwriting Limited to accept Mr Ms claim for 
the burst water supply pipe and settle 100% of the claim for the temporary and permanent 
repairs.
If a cash settlement is agreed then Pen Underwriting Limited should pay Mr M 8% simple 
interest from the date of the claim until the date the payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman