DRN-3305295
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) are calculating his mortgage 
payments. He doesnt understand why his payments have increased when the interest rates 
reduced  he thinks his payments should have decreased. He would like a full explanation 
as to why this has happened and wants to know how his payments are calculated.
What happened
Mr K took out an offset mortgage with Lloyds in December 2005. An offset mortgage usually 
combines a mortgage, savings and current accounts in one which can have some benefits 
when it comes to how much interest is paid overall, which could positively impact the 
mortgage term. Mr K took this mortgage over a 17-year term.
Mr K said that he first queried his mortgage payments in 2007 when there was a rate cut and 
his payment increased. He said over the next few months further cuts had happened and on 
occasions his payments went up and down, so he thought there was a miscalculation which 
had been corrected. He said at this point, he took no further action. 
Mr K said in April 2020, interest rates reduced but his payment increased so he contacted 
Lloyds. Lloyds sent Mr K a letter dated 6 May 2020 explaining the calculations but shortly 
after that letter, there was another cut in interest rates where Mr K said his payment 
increased again. Its at this point that he complained to Lloyds. Mr K said he wanted to know 
exactly how Lloyds calculated his payments, but he was told that Lloyds were unable to 
provide this information. Lloyds then paid Mr K £100 compensation as they said the letter of 
6 May 2020 contained spelling errors and should not have been sent. 
Lloyds sent their final response on the matter in August 2020 explaining some of the 
calculations and they were satisfied overall that Mr Ks mortgage had been calculated 
correctly.  Mr K wasnt happy with their explanation, so he brought the complaint to our 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that 
Lloyds had done anything wrong in how the mortgage payments had been calculated. 
Mr K said he still doesnt understand how his mortgage is being calculated. He would like a 
full explanation of the figures that Lloyds have used and how they calculated his mortgage 
payments in April and May 2020. 
As Mr K disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide. 
For completeness, we have already issued a jurisdiction decision explaining to Mr K what we 
can and cannot look into regarding his complaint. I will be reviewing the issues surrounding 
the concerns Mr K has about how his mortgage is calculated, and not the previous concerns 
about the mortgage being possibly mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K took out an offset mortgage in December 2005 for 17 years. An offset mortgage works 
differently to a regular mortgage as it combines a linked offset account. The way it works is 
that the amount in the linked offset account is taken into account. So instead of Lloyds 
charging interest on the full amount of the mortgage, they take into account the money that 
is held in the offset account. They therefore only charge interest on the difference. The 
interest is calculated daily and charged monthly. 
So an example of this would be if someone held £25,000 in their offset account and had a 
mortgage of £150,000, if they continued to hold £25,000 in the offset account, they would 
only be charged interest on £125,000 on their mortgage instead of £150,000. Taking Mr Ks 
mortgage into account, if the money he held in the offset account was zero, then his term 
would run for 17 years  which is what he agreed at the time. But Mr K did have money in 
the offset account so the interest charged would be offset against the mortgage. 
Mr K has paid less interest towards his mortgage than he would have done with a regular 
repayment mortgage. This means that more of his contractual monthly payment is going 
towards the capital balance of the mortgage. This means that over time, less time is needed 
to pay off the outstanding balance and the term could be paid much quicker than the 17 
years initially agreed. In order to do this, Lloyds automatically updates the projected term 
and they do this by assuming the balance in the offset account remains the same so they 
reduce the interest that would be charged. This means that based on their projection, the 
outstanding balance will be repaid within a set timeframe. This is all dependant on the 
balance of the offset account. 
Lloyds have said that the balance they use to calculate the contractual monthly payment is 
based on the projected amount outstanding at the end of a month. They said their system 
doesnt assume that a payment, which has not yet been received and is due later in the 
month, will be paid. So the month-end balance can appear artificially higher for some 
customers when automatic recalculation takes place which is a result of payments which are 
due to be received after the recalculation has occurred 
Mr Ks concerns are around the fact that his payments have increased when interest rates 
have been cut. I can see in March 2020, the interest rate reduced from 1.65% to 1.15% and 
before this change, Mr K was paying £1166.70. The mortgage balance at the time was 
£21,743.98 but the payment for March hadnt yet been received.  The projected term for the 
mortgage to be paid off at this time was one year and five months based on the balance. So 
even though the interest rate had in fact reduced, the balance of £21,743.98 was to be paid 
off within that projected term of one year and five months. The monthly payment changed to 
£1,290.12. 
In April 2020, the interest rate reduced again from 1.15% to 1.00%. The mortgage balance at 
the time was £20,587.70 and the projected term was one year and three months. Again, 
Aprils payment hadnt been received yet. Even though the interest rate decreased, the term 
also decreased by two months due to the offset interest. Because the balance had to be 
recalculated over a shorter period, it meant that the contractual monthly payment would be 
higher because the balance needed to be repaid within one year and three months. 
Mr K said he never wanted to make overpayments but from what I can see, the offset 
mortgage has operated in line with how we would expect. The way the payments have been 
worked out are not unusual for an offset mortgage.  The main feature of these types of 
mortgages is to essentially shorten the time that it would take for the mortgage to be repaid, 
because interest is offset with a linked offset account. As the term shortens, less interest is 
paid overall so the monthly payment is designed to be around the same or slightly higher to 
ensure that the mortgage is paid off within that projected period. 
I know that Mr K contacted Lloyds in April 2020 to make them aware of his difficulty in paying 
the higher payments and I can see that Lloyds did adjust his contractual monthly payment to 
a lower amount in order to help him. This is what we would expect Lloyds to do in this 
situation. I appreciate that Mr K wants an explanation and I hope I have managed to explain how his 
mortgage works - but I am unable to provide specific calculations. Our investigator did send 
Mr K some screen shots which show the balances and payments to the account which is 
what Lloyds are able to provide. 
Based on what I have seen, I am satisfied that Lloyds have calculated Mr Ks mortgage in 
line with what we would expect for these types of mortgages. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman