DRN-4053918
The complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to automatically renew his motor 
insurance policy leaving him without cover.  
What happened
Mr A says he received a letter from UKI on 18 November 2022 confirming his policy would 
automatically renew. He says he drove to work only to find out that he wasnt covered. He 
says this put him in serious danger for which UKI is responsible. Mr A says UKI should 
accept responsibility.
In its response to Mr As complaint UKI says it didnt stop the policy renewing. It says Mr A 
accessed his online account on 20 November 2022 and from this point cover was set not to 
automatically renew. It says it didnt make this change. But when Mr A called to complain on 
21 November it renewed the policy with no gaps in cover. 
UKI says Mr A called on 18 November 2022. It says that during this call he informed it he 
would shop around for quotes and call back. UKI says Mr A didnt call back, but it maintains 
it didnt stop the automatic renewal. 
Mr A says he did log into his online account but made no changes. He thinks UKI is 
responsible for the renewal not going ahead and so asked our service to look into the matter. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the evidence indicates it was after Mr A 
accessed his online account that the policy was no longer set to auto-renew. But he also 
says he didnt think it would be unfair had UKI cancelled the renewal in light of Mr As 
comments that he would shop around and call back. 
Mr A didnt accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive seen the renewal letter sent by post to Mr A. This confirms the policy will automatically 
renew on 21 November 2022. The letter invites Mr A to check the details are correct. But 
says if nothing needs changing, he neednt do anything, and his policy will be renewed. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call that took place on 18 November 2022. During this call 
Mr A asks UKIs agent about the new premium. Its explained to him that the monthly 
payment has increased from last year. The agent says this is likely due to an increase in 
general costs.  But he doesnt have detailed information on how the premium was 
calculated. Mr A confirms he will shop around for quotes and will then call back. He then tells 
UKIs agent hes moved address. The agent adds the new address details to the policy and 
confirms this hasnt resulted in any change to the premium. 
During the call Mr A asks for the renewal information to be sent by email. The agent changes 
his contact preferences and confirms a copy of the information will be emailed to him. Mr A 
stops to talk to someone else. He explains hes currently working. UKIs agent asks about 
access to other vehicles, but Mr A says he doesnt want to provide further information at that 
time. The agent says he can call back when he has more time, as this information may 
impact on his premium. The call then ends.   
I can see Mr A was sent a copy of the renewal information by email on the day of the call, as 
he requested. This states the policy will auto-renew on 21 November 2022, as did the postal 
copy.
I acknowledge that on the call to UKI Mr A says he will shop around for quotes and call back, 
which he didnt do. However, he doesnt give instructions to cancel the renewal and UKIs 
agent doesnt say the auto-renewal will be cancelled. Similarly, the emailed renewal 
information confirms the policy will renew on 21 November 2022. 
Based on this information the auto-renewal wasnt cancelled as a result of the telephone 
conversation that took place on 18 November 2022. No instruction had been given by Mr A 
to cancel and no action was taken by UKIs agent to stop the renewal. 
UKI has sent screen shots from its system records that it says show Mr A accessed his 
online account on 20 November 2022 and made a change. It highlights the next entry isnt 
until the following day when Mr A raised a complaint. 
Having considered this evidence its probable that Mr A cancelled the renewal. I note his 
comment that he made no changes when he accessed his online account. It may be that this 
was done in error. But there is no record of UKI making this change. That said, there has 
been no financial loss as a result of this. UKI confirms the policy was renewed when Mr A 
made contact after receiving its letters. Cover was then put in place without any gaps. This 
means that Mr A wouldve been covered had any claims been made against his policy during 
this period. 
Im sorry Mr A felt angry and that hed been placed in danger by UKI. I can understand he 
was frustrated when he thought the policy had renewed when it hadnt. But I dont think its 
been shown that UKI was at fault here. I cant see that Mr A was placed in danger and as 
UKI has explained he was covered without any gaps in his insurance. This was arranged 
immediately after he contacted the business on 21 November 2022.
Having considered all of this I dont think UKI was responsible for cancelling Mr As policy 
renewal, so I dont think it treated him unfairly. I think it acted reasonably when subsequently 
reinstating the policy without any gaps in cover. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman