DRN-1941115
 
The complaint
Mr F is a director of a company Ill refer to as U. Hes complained on Us behalf that Hiscox 
Underwriting Limited have turned down a claim on Us business insurance policy for damage 
to a laptop.
What happened
On 5 December 2019 one of Us laptops was damaged. Mr F raised an accidental damage 
claim with Hiscox on Us insurance policy. Hiscox said they needed an independent 
examination of the laptop to establish the cause of the damage and repair costs.  
Mr F was due to travel on business in two days time, so due to the time constraints he 
offered to arrange for the laptop to be examined and have a report sent to Hiscox. Hiscox 
confirmed in an email that this was acceptable, but that the repair report needed to be 
independent.
Mr F took the laptop to a third-party for inspection that day. He was provided with a repair 
report which he forwarded to Hiscox. Mr F was a director and shareholder of the business 
who provided the report.
On 9 December 2019 Hiscox realised Mr F was a director of the third-party business who 
had provided the repair report for the damaged laptop. They contacted Mr F by email to 
inform him they wanted their own experts to inspect the laptop. Mr F told them to contact the 
third-party if they needed any more information about the laptop. 
Hiscox contacted the third-party about their report and they told Hiscox theyd already sent 
the laptop back to Mr F. Hiscox then contacted Mr F again to ask for the laptop, but Mr F 
said he couldnt check if it had been returned to him until he returned from his trip abroad.
Mr F spoke to Hiscox in late January 2020. They explained again that a further inspection of 
the laptop was required. They said the repair report he provided wasnt independent as he is 
a director of the third-party company. 
Mr F told Hiscox that the laptop had been disposed of and complained that Hiscox had taken 
45 days to tell him why an additional report was required. 
Hiscox declined Us claim in February 2020.They said that as they had been unable to 
inspect the laptop, they couldnt accept the claim due to lack of evidence.
Mr F complained to Hiscox. He was unhappy that they hadnt clearly communicated to him 
that they needed to inspect the laptop. Hiscox didnt uphold Us complaint so Mr F brought it 
to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Hiscox had done anything wrong in not accepting the repair 
report from the third-party and she thought Hiscox had communicated this to Mr F in a timely 
manner.
Mr F didnt agree. He said he told Hiscox he was going to be abroad and would be 
uncontactable by phone so if they had any other questions, they should refer them to the 
third-party.
Mr F said if Hiscox had asked the third-party about collecting the laptop for inspection 
instead of trying to contact him, then the issue of the laptop being disposed of wouldnt have 
arisen. Mr F asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Independent repair report
Hiscox asked Mr F to obtain an independent repair report before they could consider Us 
claim. Mr F provided a report but Hiscox didnt accept the report as in their opinion it wasnt 
independent. They said this was because Mr F was a director of the third-party company 
from whom he obtained the report. 
Given that Mr F was a director and shareholder, I think Hiscoxs decision not to accept the 
report was fair as they required an independent report. And I think it was fair for them to 
require that their experts complete an inspection of the laptop, as this was detailed in the 
terms and conditions of the policy, as I explain below. 
The claim
The terms and conditions of Us policy say that Hiscox will not make any payment under the 
property section of the policy unless U has met the following obligation:
If any damage occurs, we will not make any payment under this section unless you:
5. arrange for urgent repairs to be done immediately. Before any other repair work 
begins we have the right to inspect the damaged property. We will tell you if we 
want to do this.
Hiscox told Mr F by email on 9 December 2019, four days after the claim was made and they 
had received the repair report from him, that they wanted to complete their own inspection of 
the damaged laptop. I think they advised Mr F of what they required from him in a timely 
manner and this was consistent with Us obligations under the policy. So I think they were 
fair in making clear what needed to happen.
Hiscox did contact the third-party to discuss the repair report with them. During this call the 
third-party told Hiscox the laptop had already been returned to Mr F so it couldnt have been 
collected from them. I therefore dont think Hiscox had any choice but to contact Mr F in 
order to progress the claim and I think it was reasonable for them to do this.
When Hiscox spoke to Mr F in late January 2020 he said he wouldnt be able to check where 
the laptop was until he returned from his trip. However, when he spoke to Hiscox a few days 
later, he told them the laptop had been disposed of. 
As a result, Hiscox were unable to complete their own examination of the laptop. The claim 
was declined as Hiscox couldnt inspect the laptop in line with the terms and conditions of 
Us insurance policy.
On balance, I am satisfied that Hiscox made Mr F aware a further inspection of the laptop 
was required. This couldnt happen as the laptop had been disposed of, so I think it was fair 
and reasonable for Hiscox to decline the claim. 
CommunicationMr F is dissatisfied with the length of time it took Hiscox to explain the reasons why they 
hadnt accepted the third-partys inspection report. I agree that they could have explained the 
reasons another inspection was required sooner but I dont think it would have made any 
difference to the claim.
I say this because Mr F was told four days after his initial claim that a further inspection of 
the laptop was required. Despite knowing this, the laptop was disposed of before Hiscox 
could have a further inspection completed. As a result, these points dont change my 
conclusion. 
Conclusion
As a result of all of the above, I am satisfied that Hiscox were fair to decline Us claim for the 
damaged laptop and so I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F on behalf of 
U to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman