DRN-4306094
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a loan previously written off by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  
appears on her Barclays mobile banking app. She finds this stressful and would  like 
significant compensation as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that details of an old loan, written off around 2018 ,shows on Mrs 
Cs mobile banking app . She has told us she finds this distressing as it reminds her 
of a difficult time in her life. Barclays offered Mrs C £200 compensation for the 
distress caused but Mrs C doesnt feel this is sufficient. She would like compensation 
in excess of £4700
Barclays has explained that although the loan was written off as it wasnt fully repaid, 
the loan wasnt closed. In these situations, its process  is to show the loan as active. I 
appreciate that might be upsetting for Mrs C but its not for us to tell businesses what 
processes to use. 
Barclays has also explained that  arrears notices were issued in error to Mrs C in 
2022 and 2023 as a systems error removed a block to these letters being sent. The 
block has now been reapplied so Mrs C shouldnt receive any more arrears notices.
Finally, Barclays has explained that instead of using her mobile banking app to view 
statements  Mrs C could opt for papers statements instead as these wouldnt show 
details of her old loan. Mrs C doesnt find this acceptable. I appreciate she might 
prefer to use her banking app but I dont think it was unreasonable of Barclays to 
make this suggestion. It is at least an option open to her which would avoid the 
distress of seeing information she doesnt want to see.
I do think its reasonable for Barclays to award some compensation -  more for the 
generation of letters relating to her old loan than for the loan showing on her banking 
app. Mrs C has asked for the balance of her account - £4700 to be written off with 
additional compensation . I think this is disproportionate. Mrs C hasnt suffered any 
financial loss. Barclays made a mistake issuing arrears letters but  has resolved this, 
and as I understand it there has been no impact on Mrs C s credit file.  Barclays has 
also provided a solution for Mrs C to access her account without seeing details of her 
old loan. I think the £200 compensation for any distress and inconvenience is fair in 
this situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement of this complaint Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs C £200 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman