DRN-3244555
The complaint
Mr G complains The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) acted unfairly when it said it 
wouldnt refund two ATM withdrawals that he says he doesnt recognise.
What happened
Mr G has a current account with the Co-op with a debit card and a joint account elsewhere 
with a substantial balance.
Mr G uses his debit card to make regular cash withdrawals from his local Post Office. He 
says he stopped using the ATM machine outside his local Post Office to make withdrawals in 
July 2020 as hed been told it had been compromised. He started using the counter inside 
instead. He says he withdrew cash from the counter inside in early October 2020.
On 20 December 2020 Mr G telephoned the Co-op to say that hed just received his 
statement and noticed a £250 withdrawal on 14 December 2020 which wasnt him. He said 
he hadnt taken any cash out since early October 2020 and noticed that the withdrawal was 
from the ATM machine rather than the counter. He also said hed got his card in front of him 
 and that he kept it secure  and that no-one else knew his PIN. The agent asked Mr G 
whether or not hed made a £250 withdrawal the day before, also from the same ATM 
machine. Mr G said he hadnt, that hed been in the house all day and that he wasnt going 
out much as he was classified as vulnerable. He said he was worried that more money 
might have been withdrawn and that was why hed called as soon as hed seen his 
statement. The agent blocked Mr Gs card and ordered a new one along with a new PIN and 
Mr G asked whether or not he could get a cheque book as he thought that might be safer.
The Co-op then investigated and said that it wasnt going to refund the two withdrawals as 
Mr G had been unable to explain how someone had got hold of his card and how his PIN 
had been compromised. Mr G wasnt happy with the Co-ops response so complained to us. 
He was also unhappy that the agent had implied that his partner might have taken his card.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and said he didnt think the Co-op had 
acted unfairly. He said that the Co-op had shown his genuine card was used to make the 
withdrawals and that the correct PIN was input at first attempt. He didnt think, in all the 
circumstances, that the withdrawals were unauthorised or that it was unreasonable of Co-op 
to ask the questions it had done as part of its investigation  he didnt think the questions 
were intended to cause distress. Mr G wasnt happy with what our investigator said, saying 
that they hadnt taken into account the fact that he wasnt in the habit of using the ATM 
machine outside the post office or that hed been a customer of the Co-op for over ten years. 
He asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained why he thought the two withdrawals that Mr G has 
complained about were authorised and consented to.
I agree with our investigator that the withdrawals were authorised  they were carried out 
using Mr Gs genuine card and his PIN was used to authenticate them and was entered 
correctly the first time.
I also agree with our investigator that the withdrawals were consented to  for the same 
reasons that our investigator gave, namely that its unlikely an unknown third party saw Mr G 
enter his PIN in October 2020 and waited until two months later to access his card, use it 
twice within a period of five days and then return it to Mr G.
I should add that I can see Mr G made withdrawals in August and September 2020, some of 
which were from the counter of his local Post Office and some of which were from the ATM 
machine outside  he hasnt disputed any of those withdrawals. So it does look like his card 
was used in the ATM after July 2020 and the evidence doesnt show that hed only be using 
the counter for withdrawals for several months.
Given everything Ive just said, I dont think I can say that the Co-op acted unfairly in this 
particular case. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr G, and I can see that he 
was upset by the Co-ops questioning. I appreciate too that hes been a customer of Co-op 
for many years and that he has a joint account with his partner with a substantial balance, 
and Ive taken these into account too.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman