DRN-3853527
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) didnt refund a payment he 
made using his credit card.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr D purchased two tickets through a web-based ticket reseller I will 
refer to this business as the Website. The tickets were for an event in July 2022 and they 
were purchased using Mr Ds Capital One credit card. The total cost charged to his credit 
card was approximately £1,373.
Mr D said that when he received the tickets, he noticed that they were standing only, so he 
raised this with the Website, and later raised a claim for a refund with Capital One. Mr D told 
our service that he wouldnt have paid nearly £1,400 for two standing tickets. He is adamant 
that the tickets were listed as seats on the Website and that he wouldnt have purchased 
them otherwise as the person coming to the show with him cant stand for that length of 
time due to medical reasons. He also said that the Website terms and conditions state that 
any tickets should be listed with any restrictions shown, and that this has been a really 
stressful transaction which, he said, couldve been avoided had the listing been accurate.
In October 2022, Capital One wrote to Mr D and said they decided to partially uphold his 
complaint. Capital One in this response said that for the inconvenience they have caused 
they credited £50 to Mr Ds account. This was to account for inconvenience caused, among 
others, for not notifying him about what was happening with his complaint and, on occasion, 
for asking him for information for his claim that he had already provided.
Capital One has also told our service that they had looked online, and that the section of Mr 
Ds tickets - Gold Circle East - was standing only. So, they said that the tickets provided 
wouldve been correct. Capital One also quoted from online where the Gold Circle East are 
described as: Watch Great Oak stage performances from the exclusive gold standing 
viewing area. So, Capital One said that they believe the tickets were for standing and Mr D 
has misunderstood. As a result, they said that they dont have any chargeback rights or valid 
Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). They said the tickets 
were correct and the concert went ahead as scheduled.  
Mr D was not happy that Capital One would not refund him the money he paid to the 
Website so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought that 
the chargeback wouldnt have a reasonable prospect of success, so he didnt think Capital 
One acted unfairly by not raising it. He also didnt think there was a successful Section 75 
claim to be made as the Website didnt breach their contract with Mr D, and he didnt think 
there was evidence that the contract was misrepresented either.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I know Mr D feels strongly that he has been wronged by the Website. But in this decision, I 
have to consider what is Capital Ones liability to him, in this specific complaint, when 
deciding if they shouldve done more to help him. Their liability is grounded in either the 
chargeback process or in Section 75. In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to 
take into account the relevant law and related rules of these processes into account. 
In addition, this decision is not about the Website who isnt a financial service provider and 
so doesnt fall within this services remit. Nor is this decision about the seller, who in this 
case would have been the original owner of the tickets, who subsequently sold them through 
the Website, and which were ultimately purchased by Mr D. So, in this decision Im only 
considering the question of whether Capital One have treated Mr D fairly. 
Chargeback
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. The chargeback is a voluntary scheme which looks to resolve payment 
disputes between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. These disputes are dealt with under 
the relevant card scheme rules. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a 
chargeback when a consumer asks for one, but I would consider it good practice for Capital 
One to pursue a chargeback, as long as it was possible to do so (within the limitations of the 
scheme rules and criteria), and provided there is a reasonable prospect of success. 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund as the supplier/merchant can put forward a 
defence to the chargeback claim. If the chargeback is defended, Capital One could pursue 
the chargeback further and ultimately ask the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the 
outcome. My role in such cases is not to second-guess the card schemes arbitration 
decision or the schemes rules, but to determine whether the card issuer (in this case, 
Capital One) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting, or choosing not to present, and 
when choosing whether to continue with the chargeback process on behalf of their 
cardholder (in this case, Mr D).
Capital One didnt raise the chargeback, so Ive taken this into consideration when looking at 
whether they acted fairly by not pursuing this option. Ive also taken a note of what both 
parties have told us.
Mr D told our service that the tickets were listed as seats on the Website before he 
completed his purchase, but he has not provided evidence of this. 
Capital One said that when they looked online for the section corresponding to Mr Ds tickets 
- Gold Circle East - these were marked as standing only. They quoted from one of the event 
links which described the tickets in that area as standing, so they believed the tickets were 
for standing and the customer has misunderstood. They also mentioned that the concert 
went ahead as scheduled. So, they concluded that they didnt have any chargeback rights. 
Mr D confirmed that he did receive the tickets in electronic form before the event. And having 
considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited) I cant say that most likely Mr D has lost out because Capital One didnt raise a chargeback. The reason for 
this is because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success, considering the 
situation and the chargeback rules. I think had Capital One raised a chargeback, the 
Website would have likely defended it on the basis that they provided what they said they 
would and, as such, hadnt done anything wrong. So, based on everything, including the 
limited evidence Capital One had from Mr D at the time, I think most likely the chargeback 
wouldnt have succeeded even if Capital One had continued to pursue it more robustly.
Section 75 claim 
Section 75 sets out that, in certain circumstances, Mr D can bring a claim against Capital 
One for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Website, provided that certain 
conditions are met. It is important to note that this test is a very different test to whether Mr D
thinks the Website could have done things better overall. Ultimately in this case, Capital One 
is only responsible due to this legislation and is only responsible for those issues which are 
ascribed to them under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which has significant limits to what 
Capital One is liable for in this situation. This distinction between Capital One and the 
Website is important in properly appreciating this complaint. They are not one and the same.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 56) is also important here. In 
summary, Section 56 has the effect of making Capital One responsible during the 
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr D entering into the agreement for the tickets he 
has purchased. In essence, this means Capital One can be held responsible for the things 
that were done or said during the sales process before the agreement was reached.
As mentioned above the liability here under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has significant 
limitations. For instance, there are limitations around the nature of the relationship between 
the parties. For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place. Ive looked on the Websites terms and conditions and these say that 
the Website: provides a service that allows members who want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to 
find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). It goes on to say that the Website: does 
not take title to the underlying ticket (to the extent such title exists), and the actual 
transactions are between the Buyers and Sellers. Once Buyer and Seller have entered into a 
transaction, all transactions are covered by the Websites Guarantee, subject to the 
limitations set forth herein. So, the tickets are not supplied by the Website, but the Website 
provide a service for which they charge a fee. Regarding the fee, the Website says that they 
charge: a booking fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the Websites platform, guaranteeing tickets and 
providing customer service. 
Based on the above, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement between Mr D, Capital 
One and the Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. But the 
Website provides a service, and this service consists of two main things - the platform and 
the guarantee. So, I think, the Website is responsible for how ticket information, such as 
venue, date, time, and price etc. provided by the seller (the original ticket owner), are 
displayed to the prospective buyers. Under the guarantee its responsible for providing 
replacement tickets or a refund, if the seller (the original owner of the tickets who is now 
selling them through the Website) doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying the tickets.
I should also mention that there are also other conditions necessary for a valid claim under 
Section 75, among others, one that the service provided by the Website must have a cash 
price within certain financial limits. Im satisfied that those conditions are met in this case. 
So, I now have to decide whether I think that Capital One have acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with Mr Ds Section 75 claim. In deciding that, Ive taken into account the law, including Section 75, any rules and regulations, and what I consider to be good industry 
practice at that time.
A breach of contract would occur if the Website failed to provide Mr D with a product or a 
service agreed in a contract with them. And, to make a finding of misrepresentation, I would 
need to be satisfied that Mr D was told a false statement of fact that caused him to enter a 
contract he would not have entered into otherwise.
This service has seen several complaints about the Website, and has built up through these 
cases, and their enquiries, a detailed appreciation of the process that consumers went 
through when purchasing tickets at different times. This includes understanding changes to 
the selling process over several years and what purchasers would have seen at each stage 
of the process. I think in many sales processes things can be done better, but Capital One 
can only be responsible here if there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
which materially impacted Mr Ds decision to purchase the tickets. Which is a different test 
than to that of whether or not Mr D feels the Websites sales process was fair or whether he 
was told every possible piece of information. 
In this specific case, there was no breach in delivering the tickets as Mr D has confirmed that 
he was supplied with them in an electronic form, and that it was his decision not to use the 
tickets. As such, Capital One wasnt responsible for that. And having considered the Website 
sales process throughout, from the time Mr D used it, Im not persuaded he was told 
anything that was untrue, which led him to buy tickets he would not have bought otherwise. 
Also, it doesnt make a difference whether I consider this under Section 75 or, as mentioned 
above under Section 56, because a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 can only be 
successful if there is shown to be a breach of contract, or a material misrepresentation. And 
Im not satisfied there is either here.
Mr D is adamant that the tickets were listed as seats on the Website, and that he wouldnt 
have purchased them otherwise. He has provided our service with reasons why he was after 
seating seats. And he said that the Websites terms and conditions state that any tickets 
should be listed with any restrictions shown. He has also provided our service with a copy of 
the invoice, which he received after he has entered into the contract to purchase the tickets. 
This is a post-sale invoice and it shows Seat(s) . After the word Seats there is an empty 
space, and this invoice doesnt provide any defined seat numbers it is just a blank space. 
But, most importantly, the invoice was issued to Mr D after he made the purchase, so it was 
issued after he entered into the contract to purchase the tickets and not before. So this 
means the information on the invoice didnt have any impact on his decision to enter into the 
contract.
Also, Ive not seen any other evidence that would confirm that the tickets were seated. 
Furthermore, Ive considered that the Website usually displays a map of the event, and 
Capital One has provided us with a link to the event in question; the one Mr D bought tickets 
for. From this link I can see that the event and, more specifically, the area in which Mr D 
bought the tickets, was standing only. I think, most likely, a same or similar map wouldve 
been available at the time of purchase through the Website. So, while I appreciate Mr Ds 
strength of feeling regarding his complaint, I dont think Ive seen enough to say that there 
has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here by the Website.
Ive also considered that when Capital One was dealing with Mr Ds claim they credited £50 
to his account. This was to account for inconvenience caused, among others, for not 
notifying him about what was happening with his complaint and, on occasion, for asking him 
for information for his claim that he had already provided. Considering the circumstances, I 
dont consider that unfair or unreasonable. Overall, I sympathise with Mr D for the difficulties that he is experiencing but, taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I think Capital One has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with his chargeback and his Section 75 claim. So, it is not fair or 
reasonable for me to require Capital One to take any action in response to Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman