DRN-3069779
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) didnt deal fairly with the 
claim he made under his furniture extended warranty policy.  
What happened
In early 2019, Mr B bought two armchairs.  He also bought an extended warranty from Great 
Lakes, which provided five years cover in the event of accidental damage, staining or 
structural defects.
About 15 months after hed bought the chairs, Mr B found one of them becoming 
increasingly uncomfortable.  Mr B consulted Great Lakes website and found that, because of 
restrictions to control the Covid-19 pandemic, theyd suspended inspection visits to 
policyholders homes.  So he waited until the website showed Great Lakes had resumed that 
work before he contacted them to make a claim under his policy. 
Great Lakes first response was to say that the chair had deteriorated over time and this was 
not covered by the policy.  And they said that Mr B hadnt complied with the policy term 
which required him to report an incident no later than seven days after it occurred. Great 
Lakes said Mr B had told them hed noticed the problem two months before he reported it.
Mr B responded that hed taken steps to report the issue when he first noticed it.  And he 
had reported it as soon as the website had indicated Great Lakes had restarted claims 
inspections.
Great Lakes sent a technician to examine the chair.  He told Mr B the chairs seat cushion 
had lost resilience.  But Mr B couldnt claim as this wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr B said this was wrong and sent Great Lakes evidence that loss of resilience was covered.  
Great Lakes sent a second technician to inspect the chair.  He concluded the issue was the 
result of natural settlement in the cushion  so wasnt covered.
Mr B complained to Great Lakes about their decision to decline cover.  Great Lakes 
reviewed his claim but didnt change their view.  They pointed out both technicians had said 
the claim was outside the scope of the policy.  So Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Great Lakes should do more to 
resolve it.  They noted the reason the first technician had said the problem wasnt covered 
was because his notes said Mr B didnt have cover for loss of resilience.  In their view, this 
showed the technician believed thered been a loss of resilience.  And it wouldnt be fair to 
categorise this as gradual damage in a chair of this age.
Our investigator noted Mr B had disposed of the chair  so it was no longer an option to say 
Great Lakes should repair in line with the policy terms.  And hed replaced it himself.  So the 
investigator thought the fairest outcome was to say Great Lakes should pay Mr B £250, to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset theyd caused him, and as a contribution towards 
the replacement hed bought.
Mr B accepted the investigators view.  Great Lakes didnt, as they said there was no 
structural defect to the chair.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done that, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, I find the first technicians report more persuasive than the second. 
That says there was an issue with the chair.  The technician noted that the cushion had 
softened much more than the one on the other chair.  And his notes say:
This is an invalid claim because resilience lost not covered according to my notes.
Im satisfied from this phrase that the technician believed there was a loss of resilience to the 
cushion. And that his reason for saying it wasnt covered was because of what hed been 
told about the level of cover, rather than because it was caused by something outside the 
scope of the policy.
Ive seen Great Lakes response to the investigators view.  Its not completely clear - 
referring at one point to structural defects being caused by a loss of resilience, and at 
another to structural defects causing that loss.  So Ive relied on the policy wording, which 
says the cover extends to: 
Structural defects caused by Loss of resilience to foam and fibre interiors.
That wording makes it clear loss of resilience to interiors is a structural defect.  So its not 
relevant there was no damage to other parts of the chair.  
Im satisfied that, if the issue was natural settlement (as the second technician said), it would 
have been apparent in both chairs.  But  as the first technician noted  there was a 
significant difference between them.  And, as our investigator noted, both chairs were 
recorded as being in good condition.  No other differences between them are noted.  So, on 
balance, Im satisfied that the issue with the chair was caused by a loss of resilience and 
should have been considered under the terms of the policy.   
Putting things right
As our investigator noted, Mr Bs disposed of the chair.  So its not possible to repair it under 
the policy terms.  Nor, as Mr B has bought a new chair, does it make sense to say Great 
Lakes should provide a replacement.
But Im satisfied that Great Lakes handling of his claim has caused Mr B trouble and upset, 
for which he should be compensated.  I agree with our investigator that the compensation 
paid should incorporate a contribution towards the new chair.  And I think the right amount 
for that is £250.  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about Great Lakes Insurance 
SE and directing they pay him £250 compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman