DRN-3287760
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy because The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has refused to repay 
money she sent to her father in order to take advantage of an investment opportunity, but 
which turned out to be a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary, Ms B sold her house in October 2018 and transferred 
£160,950 (which attracted a £20 fee) of the sale proceeds to her father so he could invest 
the money in cryptocurrency. Unfortunately, the investment opportunity was actually a scam, 
the money was lost to fraudsters and Ms Bs father couldnt afford to repay any of the 
money. 
Ms B told RBS what had happened and asked it to refund the money. But the bank didnt 
think it was liable for her loss. Ms B complained that RBS didnt ask her any questions about 
why she was making such a large payment to her father, and she felt it shouldve done more 
to protect her from the risk of fraud. 
RBS didnt think it had done anything wrong. Ms B remained unhappy and referred a 
complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I couldnt fairly instruct RBS to 
refund Ms Bs money. I said, in summary, that:
When deciding if RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms B, I took into 
account that banks are expected to process payments and withdrawals that customers 
authorise them to make, in accordance with the law and the account terms and 
conditions. I also considered the regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I considered to have been good industry practice at the time. And, in 
line with this, I thought RBS should also have had systems and controls in place to 
enable it to monitor accounts and payments in order to counter various risks, including 
money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and scams. And sometimes it 
should take additional steps/make additional checks, before processing a payment or 
decline a payment altogether to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
It seemed clear Ms B willingly made the transfer to her father, and not to the fraudster 
directly. So I thought it arguable she didnt, personally, fall victim to a scam and suffer 
the related financial loss. I thought it unfortunate her father was the victim of a scam and 
wasnt able to pay Ms B back (along with the return hed expected to be able to give her), 
but I didnt think RBS should be responsible for refunding the money Ms B paid away. I 
reached this conclusion having taken the overall circumstances into account, including 
the following.
Ms B hadnt made such a large payment out of her account in the recent past. So I was 
pleased to see RBSs records suggested it asked Ms B some questions before 
processing the transfer. This included questions related to some common scam 
scenarios including whether shed been pressured into transferring funds for an 
investment opportunity by a previously unknown third party. But that scenario didnt 
match Ms Bs because it was her father whod persuaded her to invest. So I could see 
why neither this, nor any of the other questions resonated with Ms B and why she 
answered no to all of them.
The banks notes suggested Ms B quite often visited the branch, was known to staff and 
was considered to be a vulnerable customer. Also that Ms B said she was making the 
payment from the recent sale of her house to repay some money shed previously 
borrowed from her father. There was no mention of his intention to invest the money and, 
even though her father was present, I could see no reason why the bank ought to have 
asked him what he intended on doing with the money. Nor had I seen anything which 
suggested RBS ought to have thought her father was coercing, or taking advantage of, 
Ms B even if it had concerns about her vulnerability given its previous interactions with 
her.
I wasnt persuaded the circumstances of the transfer and/or the reason Ms B gave for it 
were so unusual or concerning such that RBS shouldve have suspected that Ms B was 
at risk of fraud. So I didnt think it acted unreasonably in following the instruction Ms B 
gave, and sending the payment. But, even if I was wrong about that and the bank had 
somehow managed to find out that Ms Bs father intended on investing the money into 
cryptocurrency, I didnt think it was likely any warnings the bank mightve given wouldve 
stopped Ms B from investing. Shed said she initially had doubts about the investment 
but she ultimately trusted her father  who was an experienced investor and had already 
received some returns from the investment  and I thought it was more likely than not he 
wouldve been able to persuade her that the money was going to a genuine investment.
Ms B didnt accept my provisional decision. She said, in summary, that:
She only owed her father £200.
Her father didnt tell her the name of the investment company and also led her to believe 
he had invested the same amount as she was investing. He only admitted later on that 
hed put in only £24,000. And he only admitted that hed fallen victim to a scam after 
shed found this out via other means.
RBS didnt ask her any questions about the payment despite it being for such a large 
amount and much more than shed paid out previously. It should have completed more 
rigorous checks including checking the investment companys name against the FCAs 
register. She was vulnerable and the bank didnt do enough to support her.
RBS hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs response to my provisional decision has not persuaded me to reach a different 
conclusion. In hindsight, I can see why Ms B may feel her father hasnt acted in her best 
interests. But, as I set out in my provisional decision, it seems clear she trusted him at the 
time and whatever information he had given her, provided the reassurance she needed to 
give him some of the proceeds from her recent house sale. She also seems to have understood, to some extent, that he was planning on putting the money into cryptocurrency 
and she was satisfied that the high returns he was expecting to receive would help her (and 
her family) financially.
Despite what Ms B says, I think the evidence suggests its more likely than not the bank did 
ask some questions about the payment and it found (not unreasonably) Ms Bs responses to 
be plausible and persuasive. It also seems possible the bank mightve been reassured by 
the fact Ms Bs father was present at the time she was making the payment. And, as Ive 
already explained, I dont think there was any reason to for it to think she was being taken 
advantage of or coerced.
I appreciate Ms B has lost a lot of money and she (as well as her family) might now be facing 
some financial difficulties. But, in all the circumstances, I cannot fairly instruct RBS to refund 
the £160,970 payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman