DRN-4321766
The complaint
Mr T has complained J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, wont refund 
transactions he didnt authorise.
What happened
In November 2022 after a night out with friends overseas, Mr T realised hed been a victim of 
fraud. Hed woken up without his phone and wallet. His hotel told him the police had both, so 
he went to pick them up. He complained to Chase about a number of transactions which he 
believed hed not made, as he felt hed been drugged within the club the night before where 
these transactions took place.
Chase wouldnt refund him as they felt Mr T must have authorised the transactions himself. 
Their evidence showed the app had been accessed by Mr Ts biometrics, in his case facial 
recognition.
Mr T brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He was sure hed not made these 
transactions. He was also able to confirm two other banks (who Ill call S and H) had either 
refunded him or blocked the original attempts to make the transactions.
Our investigator felt the evidence showed it was most likely Mr T hadnt made the 
transactions. The nature of these very much resembled fraud-type transactions. Chase didnt 
agree and provided additional evidence which they felt showed Mr Ts evidence was 
contradictory.
Our investigator disagreed and confirmed Chase should refund Mr T in full along with 8% 
simple interest a year. Chase continued to dispute this outcome and have asked an 
ombudsman to consider Mr Ts complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Chase and Mr T. 
Ive also noted the details in our investigators views of 26 May and 7 August 2023. 
I think the following aspects are pertinent to this complaint:
Theres no dispute Mr T was in a bar at the time of these transactions. Hed gone 
there with friends to celebrate a forthcoming wedding. His friends left him there and 
Mr T woke up the following day in his hotel room without his phone and wallet. It 
seems feasible that Mr T was drugged.
I dont doubt Mr Ts story that he had to go to the local police and was able to regain 
his phone and wallet. When he did so, his cards were still in his wallet, but in a 
different order.
The transactions in dispute are out of character for Mr Ts normal use of his account. 
Its also the case that the nature of these transactions  and those made or 
attempted with his credit card with S and on his account with H  look very much like 
fraudulent transactions. S refunded Mr T whilst H blocked attempted transactions as 
they clearly looked like fraudulent transactions. Transfers into Mr Ts Chase account 
enabled the very high-level payments to be made from his Chase account using 
Apple Pay.
There were multiple logins using Mr Ts phone during the time hes unable to recall 
what was going on. I agree the evidence shows biometrics were used but based on 
Mr Ts testimony, I dont believe theres sufficient evidence to show Mr T consented 
to those transactions. Therefore they werent authorised by him.
Our service is aware that bars can be involved in downright fraud, over-charging, or 
misleading customers about what they were paying.
I have to say that Im surprised Chases systems didnt interrogate these transactions more 
carefully. These were very high-value and only enabled because of additional transfers 
which should have alerted Chase. However as I dont believe Mr T authorised these 
transactions, I dont need to make any other finding on what Chase should have done at the 
time. 
I have considered whether Mr T was just in a bar and subsequently found himself to have 
spent too much on drinks or services. Its not Chases role to stop someones genuine 
entertainment spending. However I have no evidence this was the case here.
Putting things right
As I believe Mr T didnt authorise these transactions, Chase will need to refund him in full. 
This totals £7,264.33. 8% simple interest will also need to be added from the date the 
transactions debited Mr Ts account until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as 
Chase, to:Refund £7,264.33 to Mr T; and
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date Mr T was debited until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman