DRN-2342194
The complaint
Mr A complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) is responsible for poor service in 
connection with his kitchen appliance cover of his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr A contacted BG to report an issue with his washing machine. On a few 
occasions it sent out an engineer to try and fix it. On the final occasion, the engineer deemed 
the washing machine unrepairable.
Mr A contacted BG to complain about the length of time it took to repair the washing 
machine and the disruption this caused. BG ultimately agreed to an increased contribution of 
50% towards the cost of a replacement washing machine, as it recognised that there had 
been customer service issues. 
Mr A wanted the full cost of replacing the machine as he said it was provided for in the terms 
and conditions of the policy. BG asked Mr A for proof of age of the machine, as it wanted to 
know about the age of the washing machine  so it could calculate what contribution was 
due in line with the policy terms. Mr A didnt provide the proof.
While the washing machine was being removed by Mr A, it caused damage to his property 
and he raised a further complaint to BG on the basis that the appliance disposal team should 
have removed the washing machine as he had paid for this service. And so BG were 
responsible for the damage caused.
In its final response, BG accepted that there had been customer service issues, which is why 
it offered a higher contribution towards the cost of the replacement appliance. It didnt accept 
that it was responsible for the damage caused to Mr As property as it said that Mr A had 
caused this damage himself when he had attempted to remove the washing machine. Mr A 
wasnt satisfied with BGs final response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. His view was that there was insufficient 
evidence to support a conclusion that BG had acted unfairly as the settlement was 
reasonable and acknowledged the poor service. He also said that BG werent responsible for 
the damage caused to Mr As property.  
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view as he said BG had failed to provide him with an 
adequate disposal service, so he asked for a review from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 14 October 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
13 November 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
I must consider this complaint impartially and look at whether BG acted unfairly in its 
dealings with Mr A. I think there are two specific aspects to this complaint. Firstly, the 
appliance contribution and secondly, the failure to provide Mr A with an adequate appliance 
disposal service. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy document and it says:  
What is covered: All repairs to the kitchen appliance(s) shown on your statement
A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost less to
replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved supplier and make
the following contribution based on their current retail selling price:
 100% if your appliance is less than three years old
 30% if your appliance is three years old or more
You may use our contribution towards an alternative model of your choice from our approved
supplier. There is no cash alternative
Both parties agreed that the washing machine could no longer be repaired and so BG, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy, offered an initial contribution of 30%. 
This was later increased to 50%, as it recognised its poor customer service. I must decide 
whether BG was fair in its offer and having reviewed the evidence, I think it was and Ill 
explain why. 
I understand that Mr A wanted BG to pay for the entire cost of replacing his washing 
machine as he said that the machine was under three years old. That term states: 
Confirming the age of your appliances: If your product includes replacing
appliances our engineer will estimate how old it is. If you disagree youll need
to show us either the original from new receipt, a dated guarantee or proof
of when it was first installed.
But BG (during its investigations) found that the washing machine was over three years old. 
So, it requested proof from Mr A to confirm the machines age. Unfortunately, Mr A didnt 
supply this proof, as required by the terms and conditions of the policy. So I cant say that 
BG were unfair in requesting the proof.
Its accepted that BG increased its offer of the contribution towards the replacement 
appliance, as it recognised that its customer service towards Mr A was lacking. 
Consequently, I cant say that BG were unreasonable to rely on the policy terms and 
conditions when it made its increased offer.
I accept that Mr A told BG that he had water trapped within the washing machine. But BG 
has said that it would have been Mr As responsibility to ensure that the washing machine 
was ready for disposal. Which wouldve meant that it was empty and disconnected. 
In addition, although Mr A says that BGs attempted repairs caused the condition of the 
washing machine to worsen, on balance I do not consider it fair to hold BG responsible for 
there being trapped water in it. It would appear that BG was simply making reasonable 
attempts to repair the unit.BG has told us that Mr A paid to have his old appliance removed. This service BG has 
confirmed is an add-on and not provided by BG. Also, the policy terms and conditions 
explicitly state that the disconnection and disposal of an old appliance isnt covered.
I have asked BG to provide the call recordings that dealt with the conversation about the 
washing machine disposal. Unfortunately, because of the length of time it has said that the 
recordings can no longer be retrieved. So I must decide on the evidence before me. 
I think that the terms and conditions are clear in that BG wont be responsible for the 
disposal of any old appliance. On balance and despite the absence of the call recordings, I 
am satisfied that Mr A wouldve been told this. So, I cant say that BG were responsible for 
the appliance removal or the damage caused to Mr As property. And I should also make it 
clear that because the washing machine disposal service was an add on that was not 
provided under Mr As insurance policy, I do not have the powers to consider what happened 
with that disposal service. That is because the disposal service is not a regulated activity.
Overall, BG has dealt with Mr A fairly and I am satisfied that its offer is fair in the 
circumstances and I intend not to ask BG to do anything more to resolve this complaint. But I 
invite both parties to send me any further comments they might have for me to consider, in 
response to my provisional decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
BG had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. 
Mr A confirmed that he had received my provisional decision. He also said that: you have 
not been following legislation. If I am not paid out for damages and compensation you will 
not be complying with law of UK. From these comments, I think that Mr A is saying that I 
have not followed UK law and that he wants damages and compensation paid. 
My role is to decide whether BG has acted fairly and reasonably, taking into account the law, 
good industry practice, amongst other things. In this case I am satisfied that BG has met its 
obligations under the terms of the contract.  
I am aware of Mr As strength of feeling and I am sorry to have disappointed him. But, I am 
satisfied on the evidence presented to me that BG acted fairly and dealt with Mr As 
complaint reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited:
To pay 50% towards the cost of a replacement washing machine as I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman