DRN-4013945
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) failed to issue him a new Physical 
Security Key (PSK) on several occasions causing a delay in him making an important 
payment.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Before I do so, I should point out that if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
BOI has accepted some of its failings and acknowledged the delay it caused Mr W. 
So, I dont need to make any findings on what went wrong and why, I simply need to 
decide what needs to be done to put things right.
In Mr Ws testimony to our service he says: I was locked out of my account for 31 
days 
BOI originally offered £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused. However, our 
investigator didnt agree and took into consideration the fact Mr W was trying to make 
a child maintenance payment to the mother of his child. Therefore, while our service 
may make modest awards for compensation, the investigator felt due to the 
embarrassment Mr W experienced, a further £100 was warranted.
BOI accepted the investigators findings but Mr W didnt agree and felt this didnt 
accurately reflect the distress he experienced. Our investigator asked Mr W what he  
felt was appropriate, but he didnt provide a clear answer on what he felt was 
reasonable.
Mr W hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that the delay had any direct financial 
loss for him but I do appreciate this would have caused Mr W a degree of 
embarrassment, distress and inconvenience.
However, considering that the delay Mr W experienced amounted to, in Mr Ws own 
words, 31 days I am satisfied the award our investigator recommended fairly 
recognised the impact Mr W experienced.  
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with my decision and I know he wanted more, 
but this service normally awards modest levels of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I am satisfied that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable and is in 
line with what we have awarded in other cases with similar circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained above I require BOI to pay Mr W a further £100 making the 
total award £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Bank of Ireland UK Plc to pay Mr W £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman