DRN-3441219
The complaint
Mr W complains I Go 4 Ltd (IG) havent treated him fairly at the renewal of his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr W took out a policy with IG in July 2017 which was due to renew in July 2021. Upon 
receiving the renewal quote he complained, as IG told him hed not be able to have a 
telematics box anymore. He wanted to keep this, and he felt unhappy with this because four 
months earlier hed changed his car  and had to pay a fee to keep the telematics box on the 
new car of £110. Mr W also wasnt happy the quote from IG was higher than previously. 
Later on, Mr W found a telematics policy he said was offered by IG, albeit under a different 
name of a company Ill call H and felt IG had lied to him. So, he complained about these 
issues.
IG said Mr Ws policy was bought on 7 July 2017 to start two days later. They said they sent 
Mr W the full terms and conditions applicable to the policy at this time. They said his policy 
has renewed every year since, and they issued their most recent renewal premium for the 
upcoming year on 16 June 2021. They acknowledged Mr W contacted them as he was 
unhappy his premium had increased, and he also wanted to keep his telematics box active. 
IG replied on 24 June to explain a change of car had been completed which was taken into 
account when calculating the premium, and that they no longer offer a policy with telematics 
anymore  which explain the increases.
IG added theyd not lied to Mr W as hed alleged, they said the other policy hed found wasnt 
one they offered anymore. They said they used to administer these policies on behalf of H, 
but dont now. They noted Mr W wasnt happy about having to pay £110 to have the new box 
fitted when changing his car  but wouldnt refund this as there was a fee for changing the 
telematics box which had been charged correctly.
Unhappy with their response Mr W got in touch and asked us to look into things. He said 
IGs letter head clearly named H, but theyre then referred to as a separate company. Mr W 
asked how can that be anything but disingenuous, and said its as if theyre the same 
company when it suits them, but different companies when it doesnt.
One of our Investigators looked into things. She found IG had given Mr W the correct 
information, so didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr W said his insurance has been with H for a few years now  and its still with them. He 
said they charged him when he changed his car. He said H had told him they no longer do 
policies with telematics devices, but then he got a quote from H in which hed be required to 
have a telematics device. He felt hed been lied to because of this, and said as H remained 
his insurers, they should say sorry and refund him. He said if H chose to work in partnership 
with other companies thats their concern, but it shouldnt be his.
As he didnt agree with the outcome reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to set out at the start of Mr Ws complaint who the various parties are. 
Mr Ws insurer is a company Ill call A. Theyre responsible for setting premiums, paying 
claims, and in Mr Ws case, the fee for re-installing the telematics box on his new car. In the 
insurance industry other companies will be the customer facing company, but that doesnt 
mean a complaint can be addressed against them if the issue is more properly dealt with by 
the insurer. And, if a complaint were addressed against the wrong entity, it wouldnt be 
enforceable in court, so they wouldnt have to do anything wed said.
Mr Ws broker  the party responsible for finding an insurer to place his motor insurance 
policy with and carrying out administration of it  is IG. Thats who hes been talking to, even 
though at times the letters from IG are on headed paper with Hs branding.
Mr W contacted our service recently, and said his complaint is against H. IG also contacted 
our service recently, and said they were administering the renewal on behalf of Mr Ws 
insurer A  so they said the complaint should be set up against them.
But, from what Ive seen, Mr Ws complaint is:
Hes unhappy with having to pay for the telematics box to be reinstalled part way 
through the policy.
The renewal price hes been offered is higher than it was previously.
Hes found another telematics policy, offered by H, so thinks hes been lied to when 
he was told a policy including this cant be offered anymore.
All of these communications were with IG. H is a separate company, so I cant consider a 
complaint against them  and I can only hold IG responsible for issues theyre actually 
responsible for  which will address the concerns they have about this complaint being 
against them.
Telematics box reinstallation cost
I can understand why Mr W will feel unhappy with this  as the policy only had four months 
left to run, and hes had to pay £110 to install it on his new car.
Ive looked at IGs communication with Mr W, and although I realise hell be disappointed by 
this, I dont think theyve done anything wrong.
I say that because the policy terms and conditions say, under the section Changing your 
Car:
If you change your Car during your Policy term, aBox must be installed in the new Car 
within 14 days of asking us to change your Policy. This may be a different date to when you 
start driving the new Car. If you dont have a Box installed within 14 days, well cancel the 
Policy. Please see the Cancellations section.So, I think the policy terms are clear in saying if Mr W changed his car, as he did, then a fee 
will apply for installing the new telematics box. The terms go on to say theyll charge up to 
£135 for doing this  and Mr W was charged £110.
Taking this information into account, I think IG have fairly communicated the policy terms to 
Mr W  so I dont say theyve done anything wrong.
If Mr W wants to complain about the fee applying in the first place, then hed be able to 
complain to A about that as theyre responsible for it.
Renewal price
For this aspect IG have said they were acting on behalf of Mr Ws insurer A, so the issues 
should be directed to them.
Generally speaking, thats right. I say that because the price an insurer is prepared to offer is 
set by them  albeit communicated by an insurance broker. So, here, IG are acting as the 
broker and simply communicating the amount of the premium A is prepared to offer him.
Ive noted Mr Ws concern about the renewal cost is, in part, because of no telematics box 
being included in the policy. But theres no guarantee IG could have found a cheaper policy 
even if they continued to offer telematics policies themselves. So, I cant say theyve done 
anything wrong by offering the price they have.
I understand Mr W did shop around, and ultimately decided to accept the premium  as I 
understand he still renewed his policy. But, if he remains unhappy with the price, he can 
complain to A about this. 
Mr W thinks hes been lied to about a telematics policy being offered
Mr W found online another telematics policy, offered by H, when he said hed been told they 
no longer offered this kind of policy anymore.
I do think this can be extremely confusing, but I think its important to explain the telematics 
policy Mr W had, and later found, was offered by a different company to the one 
administering his policy. Mr W had a policy which IG administered on behalf of H  with the 
insurer being A. So, in effect, its not IGs decision on whether they can continue to offer the 
telematics policy under the H brand name anymore  its H / As decision on this point.
IG have written to Mr W on H headed paper, which I do accept has likely caused some 
confusion. But I think this was done when replying to H telematics box issues.
Ultimately, IGs role in Mr Ws policy at this point was to look for the best policy they could 
find which met his needs  but theyre limited in what they can offer if a previously available 
product is no longer allowed on the market by the owner of that product. Thats what 
happened here  H / A owned the H telematics policy, and no longer allowed IG to offer it.
So, although I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling regarding these issues, I dont think IG 
have done anything wrong on this point either.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties didnt reply by the initial deadline  nor did they reply to a follow up email giving 
them a further week to respond after the initial provisional decision deadline had passed.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party replied before either deadline, Ive seen no reason to change the outcome I 
reached. Overall, I dont think IG have done anything they need to compensate Mr W for. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman