DRN-3796626
The complaint
Mr C complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system which was sold to him by a supplier (which Ill call S). 
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). S is no longer in 
business.
What happened
In September 2017, Mr C purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at 
his home. Mr C financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni that 
was repayable over seven years.
In April 2020, the CMC made a claim, under section 75 of the Act, to Omni on Mr Cs 
behalf. The CMC said there was a breach of contract because:
Mr C agreed to the purchase on 5 September 2017.
On 12 September 2017, Mr C came home to find the installation had started. The 
CMC says he had not agreed to the installation within the cooling off period.
The contract allowed Mr C 14 working days to cancel the contract.
Mr C emailed a cancellation request to S within the 14 working days but didnt hear 
back.
He then sent a cancellation request through the post.
The contract was not cancelled.
As the installation had already occurred, Mr C should have been given the right to 
cancel, subject to paying the reasonable charges incurred for removing the solar 
panels.
Omni responded to the claim and explained that it didnt agree there was a breach 
of contract. Omni said that Mr C had contacted it at the time to say he wanted to cancel 
the contract. Omni had then checked with S and had been told that S had offered to 
cancel the contract and remove the solar system, but that S would retain 75% of the contract 
price to cover the costs of the work done. S said that since making that offer Mr C had not 
been back in touch.
The CMC then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service about Omnis 
decision. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and concluded that the 
complaint should be upheld. He said Omni should remove the system and refund Mr C what 
he had paid on the loan agreement, less the cost of removal.
Omni didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mr C signed the satisfaction note confirming acceptance and completion of the 
contract and satisfactory installation of the goods.
Mr C made his loan repayments in line with the loan agreement until February 2021 
when he paid off the remaining balance.
Most people, if they believed that they had cancelled the contract, would not continue 
to make payments without taking any further action.
Mr C called Omni to request an account balance in September 2019. He did not 
mention during the call that the contract should have been cancelled.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
Omni replied to say it had nothing further to add. The CMC replied and said, amongst other 
things:
It was not explained to Mr C that the satisfaction note was to confirm that he was 
satisfied with the installation. He was under the impression this was to confirm receipt 
of the solar panels. Had it been explained to Mr C exactly what he was signing he 
would not have done so.
If Mr C had not made his contractual monthly repayments on the loan this wouldve 
severely harmed his credit rating and hindered any future credit he may have wished 
to obtain. 
Throughout the sales presentation Mr C expressed his reservations about having the 
system installed and advised he did not want to do so. The salesperson then reduced 
the price by £1,000 to convince Mr C to purchase the system, perhaps because he 
was working on commission. If Mr C had more time to consider the purchase it is 
likely he would not have done so. But the price reduction put pressure on him to 
agree to it on the day. 
Mr C didnt register for FIT payments because he did not want the system in the first 
place. He felt that registering for FIT would make it appear that he wanted to keep 
the system. 
There is no evidence that written consent to install the system within the cancellation 
period was given by Mr C. Mr C says he did not provide consent. 
75% of the original price to remove the system is unreasonable. Mr C exercised his 
right to ask for removal of the system within 14 days and therefore cancelled the 
contract. It cant be expected that Mr C had a spare £4,875.00 to remove the system 
as he had signed up to a finance agreement for £6,500.00.
Ive taken into account the CMCs comments, but I am not persuaded to depart from my 
findings in my provisional decision. I am not upholding this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant 
law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Omni, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier, S, in the same way he could 
have claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Omni.
Key documents
The key documents here are the contract between S and Mr C. In this case the contract 
allowed Mr C to cancel the contract within 14 working days, starting on the day that Mr C 
was informed of his right to cancel. Ive taken that to be the day he signed the contract. This 
allowed Mr C to cancel by writing to or emailing S. It provided a specific email address to use 
for this purpose.
The cancellation terms in the contract also said that where work is done prior to the expiry of 
the cancellation period and the customer then cancels, then reasonable payment would be 
due for any work carried out. It is also indicated that for work to commence before the end of 
the cancellation period, the customer is expected to confirm their agreement for this in 
writing.
Did Mr C agree to the installation happening before the end of the cancellation period? 
Mr C alleges he didnt agree to the installation happening before the end of the cancellation
period. It is unclear if Mr C agreed to this in writing because S has gone out of business and
those records are not available. Mr C says he did not provide written agreement at the time. 
I am of the opinion that Mr S most likely did agree to the installation happening before the 
end of the cancellation period. It seems highly unlikely that S wouldve proceeded with the 
work without Mr Cs consent. S expected to receive that in writing before it would start the 
work. So, I think it is likely that written consent was provided before installation took place.
I am also mindful that Mr C did in fact allow the installation to be completed within the 
cancellation period. Having done so, he signed the satisfaction note, confirming the contract 
had been completed and the solar system had been installed to his satisfaction.
Im not persuaded by the CMCs argument that Mr C signed the satisfaction note without 
realising what that was indicating. It was a simple one-page document with bullet points 
setting out what he was agreeing to. The first of these read:
I confirm acceptance and completion of the contract and satisfactory installation of 
the goods: insert details of the goods here: SOLAR PV
So, I think it ought to have been clear to Mr C what he was signing and what this indicated. 
Having allowed the installation to be started during the cancellation period, the contract is 
clear that Mr C could still cancel within the 14 working days, but if he did so he would have to 
pay for the work that had been done.
Did Mr C attempt to cancel the contract within the 14 working day cancellation period? 
Im satisfied that Mr C did attempt to cancel the contract within the cancellation period in 
accordance with the contract. He sent an email to the correct email address as shown on the 
contract, which notified S that he wanted to cancel. He also appears to have followed that up 
in writing by post, which was also sent within the cancellation period.However, the email wasnt sent by Mr C until six days after the installation had been 
completed and he had signed the satisfaction note. So, by that stage any cancellation was 
subject to Mr C paying the cost of the work done. 
The work done would reasonably include the full installation (since that had been completed) 
and removal of the system, since Mr C could not cancel the contract and keep the system or 
its component parts. Removal of the system would also involve reinstating Mr Cs property, 
including its electrics. So, it was not a small amount of work that Mr C would be paying for.
The CMC says the amount quoted by S was not reasonable to remove the system and that, 
in effect, Mr C could not afford to pay it. However, as Ive said above, the contractual 
cancellation terms said Mr C would have to pay the cost of the work done. So that would not 
just be the cost of removing the system, but also the cost of installation and reinstating his 
property following removal of the system. In light of this, I dont think the amount quoted by S 
was unreasonable. 
Was the failure to process the cancellation a breach of contract?
Ive found that Mr C agreed to the installation within the cancellation period. The installation 
was completed. And Mr C later decided that he wanted to cancel the contract. He informed S 
of this within the time allowed, but cancellation would be subject to him paying the cost of the 
work involved in the installation and removal of the system (including reinstating Mr Cs 
property).
The evidence shows that S agreed to remove the system and cancel the contract, and that 
the cost of the work (installation and removal) would be 75% of the original contract price. I 
calculate that would be £4,875.00. S told Omni at the time that, having made that offer, Mr C 
did not get in touch with S again. So, he did not accept the offer to cancel.
In my opinion, I dont think that S breached the cancellation terms of the contract. Rather, S 
told Mr C of the financial implications for him of cancelling after the installation had been 
completed. That was in line with the terms of the contract. It was then for Mr C to decide if he 
wanted to proceed with the cancellation and incur that cost. He did not agree to proceed, so 
the contract was not cancelled.
I think what is most likely to have happened is that Mr C, once he understood the financial 
cost of cancelling the contract, decided against doing so. That was an understandable 
decision to take since, having paid the full cost of the system using the loan, this would have 
left him having to repay £4,875.00 plus interest with nothing to show for it. 
This conclusion is supported by the fact that, after being told of the cost of cancellation, Mr C 
did not pursue the matter between October 2017 (when he last contacted Omni about 
cancelling the contract) and April 2020 (when the CMC contacted Omni about making a 
claim).
Had Mr C still wanted to cancel the contract in October 2017 I think he wouldve done so at 
that time. That he didnt undermines his argument and suggests he decided against it. 
Im aware that Mr C didnt register his system for Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments. While that 
does support Mr Cs argument  he says this was because he expected the contract to be 
cancelled  other evidence does not. 
On the balance of probabilities, I think Mr C most likely changed his mind after installation of 
the contract and did want to cancel. I accept that Mr C may have had reservations from the start, but he ultimately agreed to the purchase and allowed the installation to proceed within 
the cancellation period. 
I think that Mr C chose not to proceed with the cancellation once he understood how much 
this would cost him. That Mr C has since missed the deadline to register for FIT payments is 
unfortunate. But that but does not change my decision. It was Mr Cs responsibility to 
register for FIT payments. And after his contact with S and Omni in October 2017, he still 
wouldve had sufficient time to do this before the deadline for applications.
Im mindful that Mr C has the potential to benefit from electricity savings throughout the 
lifetime of the system, which is generally expected to be 25 years. So, with electricity prices 
currently very high, I hope that in time Mr C will feel that the benefit of having the system 
outweighs the costs.
Summary
In summary, I have found that, on the balance of probabilities it is most likely that:
Mr C did agree to the installation going ahead before the end of the cancellation 
period.
Mr C decided to cancel the contract after the installation was completed.
In those circumstances, Mr C was liable for the cost of the work involved in installing 
and removing the system.
S informed Mr C of the costs of cancelling the contract.
Mr C decided not to pursue the cancellation further, instead choosing to keep the 
system.
There was no breach of contract on the part of S, as it offered cancellation in line with 
the cancellation terms in the contract.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman