DRN-3873869
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt take sufficient actions when his account 
was taken over and told him to stop the sale of a property leading to financial problems.
What happened
Mr C says that someone had taken over his accounts at Barclays and he also refers to 
similar problems at other financial businesses. He says that when he discussed this with 
Barclays in February 2022 branch staff told him not to receive funds (of some £170,000) 
from the sale of a property and not to sell that property. Mr C explains that this led to him 
being homeless, not being able to run his business and access a loan. He says that despite 
telling Barclays to suspend his telephone banking this wasnt done. And that he has lost 
money through his accounts being accessed. He is generally dissatisfied with the service 
provided by Barclays during calls and he thinks that a number were ended by staff as his 
case was too difficult. He is unhappy with how branch staff dealt with him.  
Barclays said it wouldnt be taking any action. It said that its fraud team didnt suspect any 
third-party access to Mr Cs account. And Barclays said that if Mr C didnt recognise specific 
transactions he would need to make a fraud claim. It said that branch staff had taken action 
to protect his account. And staff disputed telling Mr C not to sell his property. Hed later said 
in April 2022 that a third party had tried to sell his property and it recommended he speak to 
his legal team about this. Barclays said that it didnt have evidence to support him receiving 
poor service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he needed to 
make a decision on the information available. And this didnt support that Mr Cs account had 
been taken over. There was a dispute about what hed been told by branch staff and there 
was no CCTV available to show Mr Cs visit. The accounts were protected as a 
precautionary measure and didnt stop money being received. And he thought that although 
there might have been a misunderstanding it wasnt most likely branch staff had told him not 
to sell the property. It was a matter for Barclays to decide whether or not to offer him a loan. 
Our investigator said Mr C would need to make a claim over any specific payments he 
disputed to Barclays first. He noted Mr C had said his legal team had all the information to 
support what happened and our investigator contacted them directly with what he needed 
but didnt get any information.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said thered been insufficient 
investigation done. And that what had happened at Barclays was part of a bigger picture of 
fraud against him. He referred to the concerning information and documents hed received. 
He wanted to be compensated for what happened and taken seriously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that during 2022 Mr C suffered financial problems and I know that for a 
period he was homeless. He explains that this meant he couldnt run his business and hes 
said in his complaint form to this service that he wants his life back as hed worked so hard 
to get where he was.
I need to look at what Barclays did and whether its responsible for what happened to him. 
Im going to be focussing on what I think are the key issues here.
Barclays has said that when Mr C made an application for an overdraft for a separate 
company in December 2021, it sent him a mandate form (as there was no signature held) 
and a telephone banking code for identification purposes. When he visited a branch Mr C 
also found out that his company was being dissolved. He suspected that someone had been 
trying to access his accounts. Measures were taken to protect the security of his accounts 
including removing his email and phone number and Barclays say also suspending 
telephone banking.
A key complaint point is that Mr C says staff told him not to pay money from a property sale 
into his account and further that he shouldnt sell the property. That is disputed by staff. I find 
it highly unlikely that staff would tell Mr C not to sell a property as I can see no reason for 
that. And Mr C has referred to having a legal team assisting him who hed have been 
discussing the sale with. Its possible that if there was a concern about account take over it 
was suggested he not pay that money into the account. But as our investigators said it 
wasnt blocked then from receiving credits: or from Mr C making payments. So, I dont have 
a basis to find on balance that Barclays made a mistake and is responsible for that property 
sale not then going ahead.
Ive listened to recordings of the calls provided that Mr C had with Barclays. I heard him say 
several times that there were items he didnt recognise going through his accounts. But also, 
then when he was asked for specifics or even one such transaction he said that this was all 
with his legal team. Frankly I think he was given a reasonable opportunity to make a fraud 
claim. And when discussing his complaint, the handler said hed help Mr C raise this if he 
wanted. Barclays says hes never made a fraud claim about specific payments and so this 
isnt something I can look into here.
Mr C says that in error his telephone banking wasnt suspended. But again, in listening to 
calls with the fraud team Ive heard him being told that it was more than once. And that his 
account restricted and he needed to go to a branch to identify himself. Mr C seemed to say 
he was told by a third party when applying for a loan that hed need a telephone password. 
And to take that as evidence that telephone banking wasnt blocked. But I cant see that was 
the case. In any event I dont see evidence of his account being taken over and so at risk if 
his telephone banking hadnt been blocked for part of the relevant period.
Mr C is unhappy with the service hes been provided with. I dont have recordings of what 
happened in branch. But I dont find evidence of poor service on the calls. Some were as he 
says dropped. I heard one member of staff who later spoke to him apologise for this 
happening. And I dont conclude on the others that this was because staff terminated the 
call. I could at times hear there was poor phone reception. And I dont see that staff 
otherwise than dealt with Mr C professionally even where as I say he wasnt able to clear 
security on the phone.
During one call he wanted to apply for a temporary loan and the member of staff explained 
Barclays wouldnt be able to provide that. I think that was reasonably down to its discretion.
I know Mr C has referred to wider issues affecting him. Hes not provided evidence of those 
or as requested of specific information to support his complaint with Barclays. Attempts have 
been made by our investigator to get this from his legal team, but they havent responded despite him setting out in writing as requested what he wanted. In any event Id need to see 
a link between actions Barclays took and loss for Mr C. And while Mr C says conveyancing 
forms relating to the sale of his property appeared to have been fraudulently completed I 
cant see such a link here.
I note Mr C raised an issue about a replacement debit card going to an address he didnt 
have access to. This was blocked and theres no evidence that this led to any compromise of 
his details. Barclays notes he didnt accept a gesture of goodwill offered when he raised this, 
and I dont consider any further action about this is required now.
I know Mr C will be very disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Barclays to do anything more. I dont find it responsible for a loss for Mr C and I find 
that it took reasonable actions to try and help him in what were difficult circumstances. If he 
doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any 
relevant timescales.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman