DRN-2877842
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) are 
charging him a success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim he said he hadnt 
authorised them to make.
What happened
Mr A said he was looking to see whether hed been mis-sold any PPI. He said hed applied 
online directly with his lenders about PPI. But, in August 2019, after seeing FTRs website 
which said theyd check for free whether he could make a claim, he made an enquiry with 
them.
Mr A said his lenders had been in touch with him directly about his PPI claims, and in 
December 2019 he received redress from one of his lenders Ill call N. But afterwards he 
was sent an invoice by FTR to pay a success fee for this claim. Mr A said when he asked N 
about his PPI claim they sent a letter of authority (LoA) that had been submitted by FTR. Mr 
A said the LoA hadnt been signed by him. He complained to FTR.
FTR said Mr A had instructed them to act on his behalf about mis-sold PPI with several of 
his lenders and had signed their LoA in August 2019. They said theyd notified Mr A when it 
was found that hed been sold PPI. They agreed that for one of Mr As claims their 
information was mis-leading and so theyd waived their fee for this claim. But for the claim 
with N this wasnt the case and FTR said the claim had been successful because of the 
LoA theyd submitted to them. They said Mr A hadnt cancelled his agreement, so their fee 
was justified.
Mr A wasnt happy with FTRs response and reiterated he hadnt signed the agreement. He 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said we couldnt comment on the validity of the signature. But said FTR had 
submitted the LoA to N. She also said N had recognised FTR as Mr As representative. 
She said FTR could charge their success fee.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means 
were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides 
story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. 
FTR feel strongly that Mr A agreed to use their claims service and that it was because they 
submitted the signed LoA, his claim with N was successful. I can also understand Mr As 
frustration as he doesnt think hed authorised FTR to act on his behalf. Mr A is adamant the 
signature on the LoA isnt his. And while I can see the signature differs from Mr As usual 
signature its not our role to validate a signature, we arent handwriting experts, forgery 
would be for a criminal court to consider. So, where there is a different version of events as is 
the case here, I will base my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
Its not in dispute that Mr A in August 2019, made an enquiry with FTR about a PPI claim. But he 
says he didnt authorise FTR to act on his behalf. I need to determine whether its more likely 
than not that Mr A had authorised FTR to act on his behalf. And if he had, whether they knew he 
no longer wanted them to work for him. I will also consider whether FTR has acted fairly and 
reasonably in their actions with Mr A. 
FTR has shown an online application for Mr A was made about mis-sold PPI for several of his 
lenders including N in August 2019, a few days before the deadline for making such claims. 
Specific details were provided in the application including date of birth, current and previous 
addresses, and contact details, email and mobile phone number. The personal details in this 
application correlate with the personal details Mr A has given to us. 
FTR has shown details to us of their web journey application process that Mr A would have seen 
at the time he made his application. The initial screen shows a statement that says: 
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check 
And below is a box that says How it works. And included the wording: 
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will continue to 
work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% inclusive of VAT will 
be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the headline 
statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement. 
The next screens asked for information from Mr A about his personal details and lenders. On 
completing the application, FTR has said there is a need for a box to be ticked to show the terms 
and conditions had been agreed, and its then a LoA would be generated, populated with the 
information provided in the application. FTR said the LoA can only be submitted when a 
signature is added in the process. There wasnt a requirement to add a date as this is generated 
at the time of the application.
Ive seen FTRs audit trail for the application which shows the personal details provided and that 
the signature was added on the site at the time of the application. So, on balance I think Mr A 
authorised FTR to act on his behalf. 
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were available to see. FTRs terms and conditions 
say: 
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to continue to 
provide You with the Claims Services. 
And go on to say: 
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter of 
Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received a reasonable 
offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period. And give details of the various channels Mr A could have used to cancel the agreement, verbal, 
written or in person. 
So, Ive considered when the free PPI check period ended and when the 14-day cooling off 
period would have started. 
FTRs records show that they were notified by N that PPI had been found for Mr As claim in 
November 2019. And I can see that Mr A was sent text messages from November 2019 to a 
mobile telephone number ending *8933, the same number given to us. The messages include Mr 
As FTR reference number and told him that PPI had been found. The messages included a link 
to a PPI questionnaire. And gave the option for Mr A to discuss his claim with FTR.
FTRs terms and conditions say from the point that PPI is found the agreement moves from a 
free PPI check to their claims service. The terms and conditions show the fees that FTR charge 
for their claims service. And give examples of how much this could be if a claim is successful.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC) 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request, as 
happened here. Any information provided in the PPI questionnaire could be used to strengthen 
the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold.  I can see from FTRs records that Mr A didnt return 
the PPI questionnaire. But I can see from the messages sent by FTR that the success of any 
mis-sold claim wasnt reliant on the completion of the PPIQ, as they say you may be unable to 
claim PPI refund unless you have completed the PPI questionnaire. 
FTR has said that their fee is justified because Mr As lender auto converted, which means they 
investigated Mr As claim based on the details they sent in the LoA. So, the PPI questionnaire 
wasnt needed for Mr As PPI claim with N to be considered. 
I can see FTRs terms and conditions say: 
Claim(s) means Your Claim(s) and/or positive identification of PPI auto-converted to a claim by 
the Company. 
But I havent seen any notification to Mr A from FTR to let him know his claim had been auto 
converted. But the notification sent from November 2019 is clear that PPI had been found. 
FTRs terms and conditions say the 14-day cooling off period starts from the date 
you sign the Letter of Authority But at this point Mr A would have considered he was only 
agreeing to a free PPI check. So, I dont think the 14-day cooling off period for acceptance of 
FTRs claims service would start until Mr A was made aware that PPI had been identified. 
And FTRs records show this wouldnt have been before 21 November 2019 when FTR sent 
notification to Mr A You Have paid PPI..So I think Mr A would have had up to 4 December 
2019 to cancel the agreement within the 14 day cooling off period. 
But I havent seen any evidence that Mr A told FTR that he wanted to cancel the agreement. I 
know Mr A didnt complete or return the PPI questionnaire. But N converted the LoA submitted 
by FTR into a claim and progressed the claim without the need for the PPI questionnaire. 
And I dont think simply disengaging from the process by not completing the PPIQ is enough 
for FTR to take from it that Mr A didnt want to use their claims service.
So, Im satisfied Mr A authorised FTR to act on his behalf to pursue his claim with N.
And by FTR submitting Mr As LoA before the August 2019 deadline N investigated his
claim for mis- sold PPI. In December 2019 N notified both Mr A and FTR that they agreed the PPI had been mis-
sold and offered compensation for this. I know Mr A said hed been in direct contact with his 
lenders and hed submitted his PPI claim direct to them. But I havent seen any evidence of 
this. And Im persuaded by Ns actions that show they recognised FTR as being Mr As 
representative and that they werent solely dealing with Mr A.
The agreement Mr A had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mr As claim was
successful.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. But I think its more likely than not that
hed authorised FTR to act on his behalf. And he hadnt cancelled that agreement before
his claim was successful. So, I dont think FTR has acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking
him to pay their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman