DRN-3414417
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Black Horse Limited dealt with his request for assistance as a 
result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
Mr G was supplied with a used through a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. The 
agreement was for £13,700 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £287.64 and a 
final payment of £4,623 if Mr wanted to purchase the car.
Mr G lost his job in December 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and, although he 
started another job, it was at a lower salary. Which put a strain on his finances. However, he 
was still able to maintain the payments to Black Horse.
Mr G contacted Black Horse in May 2021 and asked if the term of the agreement could be 
extended and the payments reduced. And Black Horse agreed to review this and get back to 
him. Black Horse said they tried to contact Mr G on several occasions in late May and early 
June 2021 to discuss his request, but their attempts were unsuccessful. 
Mr G spoke to Black Horse on 4 June 2021 and was told that the term could be extended, 
and his payments reduced. But Black Horse had told him this in error and, on 22 June 2021, 
they told Mr G that this wasnt possible. They apologised for this and offered him £200 
compensation. While Mr G says this hasnt been paid, Black Horse have said they sent the 
money to Mr Gs bank account on 17 August 2021.
Mr G wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Black Horse couldve done better, and the options they gave Mr G on 4 
June 2021 were done in error. But she didnt think this meant that Black Horse were obliged 
to honour the incorrect terms. And she thought the £200 compensation was reasonable for 
this error, and for the poor service Mr G had received. So, she didnt think Black Horse 
needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt believe that Black Horse had attempted to 
contact him in late May and early June 2021. So, he questioned the integrity of their call 
notes. He also said that Black Horse had failed to contact him between 8 June and 18 June 
2021, which he believes supports their lack of integrity. Because of this, Mr G asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr G was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Mr G has disputed Black Horses call notes, and I can confirm that Ive taken these concerns 
into account. However, after reviewing all the evidence very carefully, including the call 
notes, I havent seen anything to show me that the notes arent correct, or that they werent 
made at the time. For that reason, Im satisfied that the call notes are reasonable to rely on.
It's clear from the evidence that, after Mr G initially asked Black Horse for a term extension, 
they reviewed this request. And, because of the age of the car, this wasnt something they 
could do. However, they didnt communicate this decision with Mr G. And, when Mr G spoke 
to them on 4 June 2021, they mistakenly told him they could do a term extension. Mr G was 
also provided with a new quote of £256.82 a month.
Its also clear from the evidence that Black Horse didnt call Mr G back when they said they 
would. And it wasnt until 22 June 2021 that they advised him of their mistake. However, the 
term extension was always something that wasnt available to Mr G, despite what hed been 
told. And its not my role to tell Black Horse what policies and procedures they should have 
in place  this is something they would do in conjunction with their regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. As such, I wont be asking Black Horse to extend the term, and reduce 
the payment, on Mr Gs agreement.
But this doesnt mean Mr G wasnt impacted by Black Horses mistake. Had the mistake not 
been made, Mr G wouldve been aware that he couldnt extend the term by no later than 4 
June 2021. However, given what happened, he didnt find this out until 22 June 2021. So, he 
spent just over two weeks believing he could reduce his payments by around £30 a month. 
But Ive also noted that Mr G didnt accept the quote when it was provided to him. And he 
didnt contact Black Horse between 4 June and 22 June 2021 to accept the quote. So, itd be 
fair to conclude that this was something Mr G needed to carefully consider. And the offer 
made by Black Horse in error wasnt necessarily the answer Mr G was hoping for.
Given the above, Im satisfied the £200 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances, 
given the term extension offer that was made in error and the poor communication from 
Black Horse. And its something I wouldve recommended had Black Horse not already 
agreed to pay this. 
Black Horse have said theyve already paid this to Mr G - on 17 August 2021, into the bank 
account that he used to make his monthly payments. However, if this wasnt the case, upon 
receipt of evidence (Mr Gs bank statements covering this period showing that no payment 
was received) Id expect Black Horse to make this payment without further delay.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Andrew BurfordOmbudsman