DRN-3086330
The complaint
The director of C, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc prevented her from 
running her business when it froze Cs commercial credit card account and refused to extend 
Cs overdraft.
What happened
The background to this complaint is extensive and both parties are aware of the 
circumstances which led to the director of Cs financial difficulties and the unfortunate 
decline in her mental health in 2019/2020. The issues which led to those difficulties involve a 
freezing order which was applied during the course of divorce proceedings, and those 
matters have been considered by another ombudsman previously. A final decision was 
issued about that complaint in August 2021.
In that case, the ombudsman decided HSBC didnt act fairly when it reduced Cs commercial 
credit card limit to £0 in June 2019 without explanation, which left the director unable to use 
it while she was working abroad. And the ombudsman also determined that HSBCs actions 
contributed to, but were not the sole reason for, the difficulties the director experienced in 
running her business.
This complaint is about HSBCs actions in preventing the director from being able to access 
her commercial card account funds, or an extended overdraft, in January 2020, when the 
director received a booking enquiry for a job and needed to use her businesss commercial 
card to book travel, crew and accommodation.
Without access to the commercial cards funds or an extended overdraft, the director says 
she was unable to take on the job. She also says she was in severe financial difficulty and 
this was made worse by HSBC not allowing her to use her commercial credit card, and not 
extending her overdraft. The director has described the feeling of wanting to end her life as a 
result of HSBCs actions. Ive no doubt about the difficulties she experienced both personally 
and professionally as a result of everything that had happened and the impact that all of this 
had on her health.
HSBC has said it couldnt do any more to help the director at the time, as the commercial 
credit card was so far over its limit. It also said it couldnt extend the directors overdraft as its 
hands were tied due to the inhibits on the account. 
The director has explained that the commercial credit card was only over its limit because of 
all the work shed lost out on. The director holds HSBC responsible for this as she believes it 
breached the court order when it applied restrictions to her business transactions, and when 
it failed to take a payment to clear the credit card. HSBC again said it was unable to do so 
because of the restrictions that were placed on her accounts as a result of the freezing 
order. Its also said it had no power to vary the freezing order, which stated all of the 
directors accounts would need to be frozen.
Our investigator considered the information from both parties, but didnt think there was any 
more HSBC couldve done in the circumstances. The director of C disagreed, saying she 
had always been an exemplary customer and that HSBC had breached the code of conduct 
for vulnerable consumers. Because the director disagreed with our investigators 
assessment, the complaint has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
But Id like to firstly say how sorry I am to hear about the difficulties the director has 
experienced. I wont go into detail about these in this decision. But Ive no doubt about the 
impact these have had on the director and Id like to assure her Ive taken everything shes 
said into account and taken it very seriously.
I appreciate the director is trying to rebuild her life and her business, following events which I 
understand had a severe impact on her mental health. And Im aware that compensation has 
been paid in other complaints for the distress she experienced and for financial losses 
incurred  but I have to look at this complaint on its own merit and I cannot be influenced by 
the outcome of other complaints, as they all deal with slightly different aspects of a complex 
situation.
And as this complaint is brought by the limited company about issues mainly relating to the 
commercial credit card, Im unable to make an award for pain and suffering in this case. This 
is because a limited company as a legal entity cannot experience distress  only a natural 
person can  though I do not doubt its director has experienced significant pain and suffering 
as a result of everything thats happened. 
Ill now explain why, in addition to not being able to make an award for distress in this case, I 
wont be upholding the complaint or making any other type of award. And Ill first reiterate 
some aspects of the final decision which was made in a related complaint, in order to 
provide some important context here. 
In the previous final decision, the ombudsman confirmed that HSBC didnt act unreasonably 
by applying the freezing order to Cs business accounts. The freezing order failed to 
differentiate between the business accounts and the directors personal accounts. It was 
only when the director raised a query with HSBC about her business accounts being 
restricted that HSBC then checked this with the issuer of the freezing order. The 
ombudsman did not consider it was HSBCs obligation to check anything before this point.
HSBC then received information which clarified that the business accounts werent subject to 
the freezing order. And it lifted the restrictions on those accounts without undue delay, upon 
receipt of that information. But until this point, HSBC was acting on a legitimate order it had 
been served, and was under a legal obligation to comply with the terms of that order as they 
were set out at the time. So, for those reasons, and the fact that I cannot deviate from the 
decision of another ombudsman, I cant say HSBC acted incorrectly in applying the 
restrictions in the first place  and that means I cant say it was unreasonable for HSBC to 
refer to and rely on those restrictions when the director requested funds were released to 
her.
The director describes a visit to her local branch, when she was unable to make the 
necessary arrangements to secure a job for which her business had received an enquiry. 
During this branch visit, the director asked to extend her overdraft so she could pay her 
mortgage until some compensation had come through. She says the branch manager was dismissive and uncaring, and kept referring her to a charity. HSBC has provided statements 
from the branch manager, which describe in considerable detail how the director and branch 
manager spoke at one of the pods, quite a distance away from other customers. From the 
information Ive looked at from both parties, Im persuaded that the branch manager did 
everything that was in her power at the time  including taking the time to listen to the 
director away from other customers, reviewing the account notes and signposting her to 
other sources of help. 
Ive also considered whether HSBC acted unfairly in telling the director it was unable to help 
her. And because of the restrictions on the accounts, and the fact that its been established 
that those restrictions werent applied unreasonably, I cant say HSBC acted unfairly when it 
was unable to assist the director, when she asked it to make funds available for her that day.
Ive also looked into why the commercial card had gone some way over its limit at that point 
 and whether I think HSBC is responsible for this. Ive looked closely at the credit card 
statements provided. The debt on the card appears to have accumulated predominantly as a 
result of the circumstances surrounding the divorce proceedings, which I appreciate was an 
incredibly difficult time in the directors life. But Ive not seen anything which makes me think 
HSBC was responsible for the debt building up, and so I cant hold it liable for the card being 
over its limit. Ive also not seen evidence of HSBC applying any unfair or excessive interest 
or charges. But I can see it did freeze interest and charges from September 2019 in an effort 
to act positively and sympathetically towards the director.
Because of this, Im not persuaded that HSBC has acted unfairly in relation to the events 
complained about in this case. So Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to the director of C, but I hope my explanation above has 
gone some way to reassure the director that Ive considered this complaint carefully and that 
this is a fair outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman