DRN-3485713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society declined their application for a 
Later Life Mortgage (LLM). As a result, they had to raise funds elsewhere to carry out 
building work, and were caused distress and upset. To settle the complain they are asking 
Nationwide to pay financial compensation to offset the impact of arranging alternative 
finance.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letters dated 30 July 2021 and 14 March 2022. All parties have seen 
those letters, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened 
really isnt in dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a 
complaint has been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified.
Briefly, in November 2020 Mr and Mrs H applied to Nationwide for a LLM (which is an equity 
release mortgage, where borrowers can either opt to make monthly repayments, or else 
allow the interest on the mortgage to roll up, as with a standard equity release product).
They wanted to raise funds to carry out extensive refurbishment of their home, which they 
had bought a couple of months earlier. On 25 November 2020 Mr H had a conversation with 
a LLM consultant at Nationwide. During the course of the conversation Mr H explained that 
there was no bathroom in the property, and that he and Mrs H would be moving out while the 
renovation was carried out and would be renting a property elsewhere during the course of 
the building work.
Nationwide provided an illustration for a mortgage of £70,000, subject to receiving building 
quotes and Mr and Mrs H receiving independent legal advice. After quotes were eventually 
received, it was noted that the work was likely to cost more than originally anticipated. As a 
result, the loan amount was increased to £84,000, with Mr and Mrs H intending to use some 
of their savings for the balance of the work.
The LLM Consultant provided the property risk team with information given to her about the 
work, including confirmation that the property would not be habitable during the work.
The application proceeded but on 23 February 2021 it was declined, because the property 
would not be occupied or be habitable during the building work.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Nationwide. They said that theyd been led to believe that the 
only thing holding up the mortgage offer was the valuation, and that it had been made clear 
from the start that they wouldnt be living in the property while the work was being done.
In order to get the work carried out, Mr and Mrs H arranged finance elsewhere, and 
borrowed from family members. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter, Nationwide said that it 
thought it had done nothing wrong in declining the application, as it fell outside its lending 
policy. Nationwide also said that it was Mr and Mrs Hs decision to start the building work 
without a mortgage offer.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs H complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. He noted that Nationwide had provided a copy of the document which the LLM 
consultant would have used to gather information from Mr and Mrs H. One of the questions 
was:
Will the members remain in the property whilst the works are carried out/ will the 
property remain habitable? (If No-decline)
The investigator was satisfied this was a clear, unambiguous question, and that Mr H had 
explained during the initial call on 25 November 2020 that he and Mrs H wouldnt be 
remaining in the property while the work was being carried out. As a result, the investigator 
was satisfied that the mortgage should have been declined at that initial stage.
The investigator asked Nationwide to pay compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr and Mrs H, as well as any costs incurred by Mr and Mrs H for the failed 
application.
Both Mr and Mrs H and Nationwide disagreed with the investigators findings. Mr and Mrs H 
said that £250 in no way compensated them for their financial losses. (They confirmed they 
had incurred no additional costs.)
Nationwide said that, notwithstanding the question (set out above) about whether the 
property would be occupied or remain habitable which the LLM consultant was required to 
ask, it was up to the property risk team to decide whether or not to accept the application. 
Nationwide says that it was only in February 2021 when quotes for the building work 
showing a full refurbishment were received that it was first realised by Nationwide that 
Mr and Mrs H were carrying out a full refurbishment. As a result, this fell outside lending 
policy.
Because neither party has accepted the investigators findings, it falls to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call recording of the conversation between Mr H and Nationwide on 
25 November 2020. From this Im satisfied that Mr H is quite clear in explaining that there 
will be a full refurbishment of the property. He says there is no bathroom in the property and 
that the work will involve a new kitchen and bathroom. He states quite clearly that, due to the 
amount of work, he and Mrs H will be moving into rented accommodation while the work is 
being carried out.Ive also looked at the additional information which the LLM consultant is required to compile 
before an application can proceed. It is clear from this that, if the borrowers are not 
remaining in the property while the work is carried out, the application should be declined. 
Nationwide says that, despite this, the application would not be declined at the initial 
information-gathering stage with the LLM consultant, even if the answer to that question is 
yes (which was the case here).  However, the instruction to the LLM consultant is clear  
which is that the application should be declined. It is difficult to put any other interpretation 
on this, when Nationwides own documentation is unequivocal that the application should be 
declined at the information-gathering stage. I therefore reject Nationwides assertion that the 
LLM consultant could not have declined the application, given that its own direction states 
the complete opposite.
I dont know if the LLM consultant made a mistake in not applying this direction at the time of 
the initial call, or if she chose to ignore it. But I think if she had correctly followed the process 
as set out in Nationwides own internal document, then she would (or should) have told Mr H 
during the initial call that the application couldnt proceed if he and Mrs H werent going to be 
in occupation.
The result of this mistake was that Mr and Mrs H were  incorrectly  led to believe that their 
application could proceed. Given this, Im satisfied the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Where a mistake has been made, I have to try to put Mr and Mrs H back in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt been made.
If Mr H had been told during the call that the application couldnt proceed if he and Mrs H 
were moving out of the property, then they would have known at that point that theyd need 
to arrange finance elsewhere. Mr H has told us that he approached other equity release 
providers, and it was confirmed that they couldnt lend on a property that was going to be 
vacant whilst a total refurbishment was being carried out.
In the circumstances, because Mr H was already retired, I think the options for alternative 
finance were limited. I completely understand that Mr and Mrs H didnt want to lose their 
builders and needed to get the work started. They arranged an alternative source of finance 
for some of this, and borrowed from their family for the rest. But I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible for that; I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs H would have been able to source 
either a traditional or equity release mortgage elsewhere, due to either their financial 
circumstances and/or the need to satisfy lending criteria in relation to the occupation of the 
property.
Given this, I think that if Nationwide had correctly applied its policy and told Mr H in 
November 2020 that the application couldnt proceed, he and Mrs H would have been in the 
same position of needing to source alternative finance outside the mainstream mortgage 
market. 
It wasnt until February 2021 that the application was declined. But this was largely due to 
the difficulty in getting an itemised written builders quotation for the work, which wasnt 
provided until 3 February 2021. In the circumstances, although I understand Mr and Mrs H 
were under some stress for a few months while they thought their application was 
proceeding, Im not persuaded that Nationwide is responsible for any delays, given the 
length of time it took for the builder to provide a written quotation. Even if theyd been told in 
November 2020 that Nationwide couldnt lend, it would still have taken the builder the same 
amount of time to provide the quotation, which any other lender would need to see.As a result, although Nationwide made a mistake, Im satisfied that the compensation 
suggested by the investigator of £250 is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the mistake 
made by Nationwide in not telling Mr and Mrs H at the outset that their application was 
outside lending criteria. But as I said above, Im not persuaded that any additional delay was 
as a result of any error by Nationwide, so Im not ordering Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Nationwide 
Building Society must pay Mr and Mrs H compensation of £250. I make no other order or 
award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman