DRN-3727055
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr M complain that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly cancelled their home 
buildings insurance policy.  
For ease Ill refer to Mrs J, as the lead complaint, throughout my decision. 
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs Js home was burgled. She reported this to the police, and it began an 
investigation the same day. Mrs J says she checked her home insurance policy and realised 
it had expired eight days earlier, and that the new policy she had arranged hadnt gone 
through properly. She says she accepts no cover was in place on the day of the burglary. 
Mrs J says she searched online and initiated a new policy with esure and paid the full 
premium. After doing so she says he daughter contacted esure to ask for advice on the 
situation, and if there was any help in relation to the loss incurred. Mrs J says the call 
handler told her daughter there was no cover in place at the time of the burglary with esure. 
She says her daughter understood this. 
The next morning Mrs J received an email from esure cancelling the policy. It advised that 
she had fraudulently misrepresented the details provided to it in relation to the theft. 
Mrs J says this isnt true. She says questions were asked about the loss during the call with 
her daughter, which she answered. But this was not an attempt to claim. She says the only 
intention was to obtain advice. Mrs J says her new insurance is almost twice the price 
because of the cancellation esure recorded. 
esure didnt change its decision after Mrs J complained so she referred her complaint to our 
service. She didnt uphold her complaint. Having listened to the call with esure she says 
there was a strong possibility the intention was to make a claim. Our investigator thought 
esure had acted fairly and in line with its policy terms when cancelling Mrs Js insurance. 
Mrs J didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.  
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Let me explain.
Ive listened to the call recording provided by esure. This call took place the day after the 
burglary. In her complaint Mrs J refers to her daughter having made this call. But during the 
call its clarified by esures call handler that its actually Mrs J who is calling. She confirms 
that she has joint policy with her husband and provides her name for the call hander. 
During the call Mrs J explains that there had been a robbery the previous day. She also says 
that shed taken the policy out yesterday as well. She says she noticed the burglary when 
she, her husband and her daughter returned home from work at around 8pm. Mrs J explains 
the back door had been forced and there were obvious signs of the burglary throughout the 
house. 
Mrs J describes how it was arranged for a smashed window to be boarded up using 
cardboard after the burglary. Also, that the police had arrived about twenty minutes after 
they reported the incident.  
During the call Mrs J is asked to provide an estimate of the loss she had incurred. She 
estimated this at between £60,000 and £70,000 made up of cash and jewellery. esures call 
handler then says she needs to read through Mrs Js policy terms to see if cover is available. 
The call is put on hold and eventually cuts off. The call handler rings Mrs J back and 
explains the policy was incepted after the burglary had happened. This meant there was no 
cover in place.
Esures call handler then suggests that Mrs J contacts her previous insurer. In response Mrs 
J says the policy with esure was obtained through a comparison website. She says the 
application was saved but for some reason it didnt go through. She says she thinks her 
previous insurance policy ended the day before. Mrs J asks the call handler if there is 
anything esure can do. She says she took out the policy the morning of the burglary, but it 
didnt go through. The call handler confirms that there is no cover. 
Ive read Mrs Js policy terms. It states that if it has reasonable grounds to suspect Mrs J has 
acted fraudulently it has the right to cancel the policy immediately. It also says it can keep 
any premium that has been paid in these circumstances. Although I note it has refunded Mrs 
Js premium in full. 
Ive thought about what was discussed during Mrs Js call with esure. I note she doesnt 
mention the policy not going through until esures agent told her no cover was in place. In 
addition, in her complaint, Mrs J says she was aware, prior to contacting esure, that she had 
no cover in place at the time of the burglary. She says her previous insurance had expired 
eight days earlier. Whereas in the call she says it had expired the day before the burglary.   
Mrs J didnt mention either of these points to esures call handler until after she was told the 
policy wouldnt cover her loss. I dont think Mrs J made it clear that she knew there was no 
cover in place, and that she was seeking advice on the situation. Having listened to the call I 
dont think it was unreasonable for esure to conclude that Mrs J was attempting to make a 
claim. 
The policy terms state that the policy can be cancelled immediately in these circumstances, 
which is the action esure took. 
In summary, although Im sorry Mrs J has suffered an unsured loss and that her policy has 
been cancelled resulting in higher premiums, I dont think esure acted unfairly when relying 
on its policy terms and taking the action it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to 
resolve Mrs Js complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman