DRN-1349989
The complaint
Mr P complains about a credit card balance transfer to MBNA Limited that didnt go through. 
MBNA said this was because the other credit card wasnt in Mr Ps name, when this isnt 
right.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr P contacted MBNA to transfer a balance from a credit card with another 
bank onto his MBNA card. But, when MBNA tried to process this for Mr P, it refused the 
transfer as it said that the other credit card wasnt showing as being in Mr Ps name. The 
adviser asked Mr P for his wifes name, and checked that against the card details, and told 
Mr P it matched for her name.  But this wasnt right as the other bank confirmed that the 
credit card account was in Mr Ps sole name and he was the sole cardholder.
Mr P complained as he was concerned that there was inaccurate information about his 
accounts which he felt may have an effect on his credit worthiness. He provided a letter from 
the other bank which confirmed that he was the sole cardholder for that account, but MBNA 
didnt accept this.
MBNA said that it couldnt complete the transfer because the credit card Mr P wanted to 
move the balance from wasnt in his name. It said it could be that the other bank may be 
inaccurately reporting credit file information. It didnt believe it was at fault.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that when MBNA completed the pre-checks before the balance transfer, this had 
confirmed that the card details Mr P gave was not in his name. She didnt think MBNA had 
made an error by refusing the transfer because the other credit card wasnt showing as 
being in Mr Ps name with the credit reference agency MBNA used.
 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that no weight had been given to the 
other banks confirmation that the credit card was solely his. He said it had been proven that 
he was the sole cardholder of that account, and that the facts hadnt been accepted. He 
didnt think his concerns about the potential ramifications for both him and his wife had been 
fully addressed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this situation will have been confusing and concerning for Mr P, when 
the credit card he holds with the other provider is in his sole name, and that provider has 
confirmed that to him.
However, the system MBNA used to process the balance transfer didnt give a match for the 
credit card having Mr Ps details. So when the details of his other card were entered into that 
system, MBNA couldnt complete the transfer as it wasnt recognised as Mr Ps account, and 
a balance transfer couldnt be accepted from someone elses credit card. 
I appreciate that this information isnt right, and the credit card is Mr Ps. But this meant that 
MBNA couldnt go ahead with processing this particular transfer.
 
Its because of this that I dont think that MBNA acted wrongly or unfairly, when the 
information it was using to try and process Mr Ps requested balance transfer didnt show 
that it was from a credit card in his name. 
Its not clear why this was, or what caused the credit card to show as matching his wifes 
name instead. Although Mr P provided the confirmation from the other bank about his credit 
card, I dont think this means that MBNA shouldve over-looked the information given on the 
system it uses to process a balance transfer. 
I know that Mr P has spoken with a credit reference agency about this, but I can only 
suggest that he looks to check the related details on his credit record, as this may indicate if 
there is anything not right about how the information of that account is reporting.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman