DRN-2746504
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Access Bank UK Limited liquidated his portfolio against his 
instructions. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a solicitor.
What happened
The background to this complaint is familiar to both parties and was set out in some detail by 
our investigator. I wont repeat it again here, but instead will focus on the reasons for my 
decision. 
Very briefly, in January 2020, The Access Bank agreed to loan Mr J US$500,000. The loan 
was for five years and on an interest only basis  the capital needing to be repaid at the end 
of the loan term. The loan was secured against Mr Js execution only portfolio held with 
The Access Bank.
In March 2020, The Access Bank liquidated Mr Js portfolio to repay the loan because it had 
exceeded a loan to value of 80%. Mr J says he agreed that The Access Bank could transfer 
the credit balance on his current account and that he was making arrangements to transfer 
the remaining amount required to bring the loan to value down to less than 70%. He said 
hed told The Access bank not to liquidate his portfolio.
The Access Bank said it had acted in line with the terms of the loan agreement.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
bank had made it clear that Mr J needed to take immediate action, that it hadnt agreed to 
give him more time, and that it was entitled to liquidate his portfolio.
Mr J didnt agree. His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Mr J agrees the provisions set out in the loan agreement.
On 10 March 2020, both parties entered into a new agreement  as evidenced in the 
exchange of emails  and this acted as an estoppel, suspending the banks right to 
liquidate the portfolio.
The bank accepted this agreement by transferring the credit balance on Mr Js current 
account and it was obliged to wait for Mr J to transfer the balancing sum.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js representative says Mr J does not have a dispute with the terms of the loan 
agreement. Both parties seem to therefore agree that The Access Bank was able to liquidate 
Mr Js portfolio immediately to repay the loan when the loan to value reached 80% (the 
Close level).
Im satisfied that the loan to value had reached 80% when the bank liquidated Mr Js 
portfolio  so I find it acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement.
But Mr Js representative says that the emails and phone calls that took place around 9th to 
12th March 2020 formed a new agreement. And that this new agreement did not allow the 
bank to liquidate the portfolio. Ive considered this very carefully. And, whilst Ive taken 
relevant law into account, I need to decide whether the bank treated Mr J fairly and 
reasonably. I think it did for the following reasons:
Having listened to the calls which took place during this period, Ive not heard anything to 
suggest an agreement was made to allow Mr J time to transfer money into the portfolio. The 
bank explained to Mr J what it required him to do and why. Its member of staff expressed 
regret that it was placing Mr J in a difficult position but that it required the transfer to be made 
immediately. Unfortunately, due to the unprecedented market conditions at the time, the 
investments in Mr Js portfolio had rapidly fallen in value. As it was clear Mr J was shocked 
by the position in which he found himself, the bank agreed to call back the following day and 
to set out what was required in an email. But there was nothing to suggest that there was 
any other resolution to the situation apart from Mr J needing to transfer at least US$100,000 
into his portfolio immediately.
This was confirmed in the banks email to Mr J on 10 March 2020, when it told him that he 
needed to increase your portfolio by $100,000 immediately. There was nothing to suggest 
the timescale was anything other than immediate.
Mr J instructed the bank to transfer the credit balance on his current account. He said, I will 
review and come back to you with a position to fund the remaining. The bank acknowledged 
this email with the word noted. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that the bank agreed 
to extend the timescale and give Mr J any additional time to provide it with the money it 
required. I think it acted reasonably in allowing Mr J a short window to try to arrange the 
transfer. But ultimately, because of the unprecedented market conditions, the value of his 
portfolio was continuing to fall. Without any definite proposals for transfer from Mr J, the 
bank had no choice but to liquidate his portfolio.
Following the transfer of the current account balance, the bank told Mr J Please be aware 
that if the 80% LTV Close limit is reached, a part of your portfolio will be liquidated in order to 
offset part of the loan and bring it below the Call level. I find the bank clearly set out what 
would happen after Mr Js current account balance had been transferred.
The next day, the bank emailed Mr J to tell him it was liquidating part of his portfolio. The day 
after that, because the value of his portfolio was continuing to fall, the bank told Mr J it would 
liquidate the whole portfolio to repay the loan. It had tried to phone Mr J to explain this, but 
he was unavailable due to work commitments. But the email explained what action the bank 
was taking  and this was consistent with what it had told Mr J in the previous days.
I am not persuaded that the bank agreed to extend the timescale for Mr J to transfer money 
into his portfolio. And Im not persuaded that the bank had agreed not to liquidate his 
portfolio. I accept Mr J didnt want his portfolio liquidated and that he was trying to arrange 
the transfer of funds. But he didnt tell the bank what he planned to do and in the 
circumstances of falling markets, the bank acted reasonably in liquidating the portfolio.
I appreciate Mr J feels very strongly about this matter and I am sorry for the financial impact 
this has had on him. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find The Access Bank has 
treated Mr J unfairly or unreasonably.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman