DRN-2151505
The complaint
Ms S complains on behalf of the estate of Mr R, her late husband, referred to as Mr R or 
her husband.  
Ms S says that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited, an appointed representative of 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited, referred to as Lighthouse, incorrectly crossed out 
important information on the application form (for joint life cover with critical illness cover) 
regarding her husbands mental health issues.   
What happened
In August 2014, Ms S and her husband were advised to take out a joint decreasing term 
assurance and critical illness cover policy (the policy) for a term of 25 years, with a third-
party insurer. 
In January 2020, Ms Ss husband sadly died as a result of suicide. She made a claim on the 
policy that was refused on the basis that her husbands mental health wasnt disclosed. 
In due course Ms S complained to Lighthouse, but the complaint was rejected. In short, it 
said:
Ms Ss husbands mental health condition had been disclosed on the form, but under 
the mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) section, that was later (correctly) 
crossed out because it was in the wrong section. MPPI, although on the same form, 
wasnt what they were applying for.  
It was Ms Ss and her husbands responsibility to ensure that the form contained the 
correct information. 
The insurer shouldve checked to see why that section had been crossed off and 
made further enquiries.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
On page 8, section 6.2 of the application form  under health and medical details  
Ms S and her husband answered no to the following question:
oWithin the last five years have you experienced: anxiety state, stress, 
depression, chronic fatigue, any other metal or nervous illness?
On page 13, section 6.15, only Mr R answered yes to the following question  but 
for a different product not what they applied for:
oHave you ever suffered from anxiety, stress, depression, mental breakdown, 
insomnia or tension?
oAs well as answering no the following was recorded: Depression  2 years 
ago, 4 months recovered. 
Regardless of who filled out the form, Mr Rs mental health issue was included on the 
form, albeit in the wrong section. However, because the information was 
subsequently crossed out  suggesting that it was included in error  hes unable to 
say that it was disclosed for the purposes of the application. 
Some of the responsibility fell on Ms S and her husband to check that the correct 
information was contained within the application form. However, the adviser 
shouldve explained to the insurer (and Ms S and her husband) why this information 
was crossed out. In recognition of this failure Lighthouse should pay Ms S £250 
compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
Ms S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
seems that she accepts that she signed the form without checking it but says she wasnt 
given the opportunity to do so. She feels the adviser shouldve filled out the form correctly as 
it was his job to do so. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Lighthouse says, I dont think it 
behaved reasonably with regards to Ms S and her husbands application for life and critical 
illness cover. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Ms 
Ss strength of feeling about this matter. Im very sorry for the loss of her husband and 
appreciate this must be a difficult time for her. 
Ms S has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her and Lighthouse, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I understand that Ms Ss husbands relevant mental health issue was included on the 
application form, but in the wrong section (under MPPI), and then crossed out. 
Because it wasnt what theyd applied for the adviser was probably right to cross it out from 
that section. I note that page on the application for said Only complete the next questions if 
you have selected Mortgage Payment Protection cover in section 3 which isnt what theyd 
chosen. 
But there seems to be no suggestion that any effort was made thereafter to try and include 
this information  after it had been disclosed  in the correct section of the application form, 
namely the bit that was relevant to the life cover that they wanted. And there also seems to 
be no consideration given as to whether or not this particular answer affected any of the 
other answers within the form.  
Mr Rs answers would suggest that the previous question about whether he and Ms S had 
experienced any issues  such as anxiety state, stress, depression, chronic fatigue, any 
other metal or nervous illness in the last five years was answered incorrectly. This is because Mr R subsequently answered Depression  2 years ago, 4 months recovered in 
the section that was crossed out, which would clearly suggest that he did suffer from 
depression in the last five years, but with no response from the adviser.  
I agree with the investigator that information that had been crossed out (for whatever reason) 
would suggest that it wasnt relevant to the application and probably included in error, and 
therefore not something the insurer should consider any further. Clearly this wasnt the case 
here. 
Notwithstanding Ms Ss and her husbands responsibility to check through the application 
form, I think the adviser was responsible for submitting an application form with the correct 
information contained within it, which Im not satisfied he did in this case. 
I think the adviser shouldve explained to Ms S and her husband (and the insurer), why 
information was included and then crossed out, and that this information was still (clearly) 
relevant to the application for life cover. 
So, in the circumstances, I think Lighthouse should pay Ms S £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this incident and an inaccurate application form being 
submitted.   
I understand that the insurer refused the claim on the basis that Ms Ss husbands mental 
health issue wasnt disclosed and said that it wouldnt have insured him had it been made 
aware of this at the outset. In other words, it wouldnt have provided cover even if the form 
had been filled out correctly. Therefore, in the circumstances, I dont think Lighthouse is 
responsible for paying for the claim that was made by Ms S but refused by the insurer.  
I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to give Ms S what she wants.
Putting things right
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited should pay Ms S £250 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman