DRN-1767095
The complaint
Mr M has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to decline his claim 
under his private medical insurance policy for the removal of a lipoma.
What happened
Mr M had had a large lipoma (benign fatty lump) on the back of his head for a number of 
years. After he began taking medication for an unrelated condition, he found that the lump 
was growing and causing him discomfort. He saw a specialist who recommended that the 
lump be removed.
Mr M asked AXA to provide cover for this procedure. However, AXA declined his claim. It 
said the policy excluded cover for the removal of fat or surplus tissue, regardless of whether 
this was for medical or psychological reasons.
Mr M was unhappy at AXAs response. He referred his complaint to us. He considered that 
AXA was acting unreasonably because the lipoma was causing him a lot of difficulty in his 
daily life and so the planned procedure was not being undertaken simply for cosmetic 
reasons.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that AXA had fairly applied the terms of the policy.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that the lipoma prevented him from 
leaning back or lying flat in comfort. He maintained that AXA was being unreasonable.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy, under the heading of fat removal, states:
We do not cover the removal of fat or surplus tissue, such as abdominoplasty (tummy tuck), 
whether the removal is needed for medical or psychological reasons.
I note that Mr Ms treating consultant says:
The mass itself is starting to cause significant functional issues as he is now unable to fully 
extend his neck and it is very uncomfortable when he lies down and puts pressure on it 
Given the fact that it is now quite large and causing functional issues, I think it would
be entirely reasonable to remove this for him.
I recognise the difficulty which the lipoma was causing to Mr M and that its removal was 
recommended for clinical, not cosmetic, reasons. However, a lipoma is essentially a lump of 
fatty tissue. The policy clearly states that cover isnt provided for the removal of fat or surplus 
tissue. And while the example given in the policy is of a tummy tuck operation, I dont 
consider this means it is unreasonable for AXA to apply the exclusion to other types of 
surplus tissue, such as a lipoma.
I understand Mr Ms frustration. However, it is up to an insurer to decide what it is, and is not, 
prepared to cover. In this case, AXA has clearly stated it wasnt prepared to cover the 
removal of fat or surplus tissue and I consider its application of this exclusion to Mr Ms claim 
was reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman