DRN-3980487
The complaint
Miss H and Mr Ss complaint about London and Country Mortgages Ltd trading as L&C 
(L&C) relates to the service they received when they made an application for a mortgage 
with X bank using L&Cs help.
What happened
Miss H and Mr S wanted to apply for a mortgage to X bank and instructed L&C to assist 
them. The application was first submitted on 8 July. They told L&C, when completing their 
application, that they wanted to use the figure of £180,000 set out in the home report as 
representing the value of the property rather than the asking price figure of £202,513. The 
reason was that they had agreed to buy the property over the asking price. L&C failed to do 
as asked and as a result X bank cancelled their application shortly after submission, 
although later re-instated it. Ultimately their mortgage application was approved albeit later 
than it would have been.
At that time, Miss H and Mr S were living in rented accommodation and were required to 
give 30 days notice to their landlord. They say that because there was a delay in obtaining 
the mortgage they couldnt give notice until 24 August. They moved into their new home on 
26 August but were legally bound to pay their rent for a further 28 days, which cost them 
£675. They feel that if matters had been dealt with properly by L&C they would have been 
able to give notice earlier and would have avoided paying the rent for the period after they 
vacated.
Miss H and Mr S also said they were unhappy with the service they received from L&C in a 
number of other respects. They were not told that their mortgage advisor (L) was going on 
paternity leave and were given no alternative advisor to contact, which they say was a 
critical point of failure as their application was time sensitive; there was an issue with the 
lender and the mortgage interest rate which was not adequately explained; they had to 
constantly get in touch with L&C to chase for updates as they were not kept informed; when 
asking for a new direct debit mandate (DD) to complete this was not provided in a timely 
manner.
L&C agreed with some aspects of Miss H and Mr S complaint. They agreed that they could 
have provided an explanation on the application form to show the two different valuations of 
the property, although the application form did demand that the purchase price be declared. 
They accepted that because of this the initial application was closed, resulting in a delay of 
seven days to 19 July before it was reinstated, and Miss H and Mr S were able to upload the 
required documentation for the application to proceed. Updates were provided on 26 July 
and 1 August. On 2 August L&C said they were advised by X bank the original product 
Miss H and Mr S wanted was no longer available. They accepted that the absence of L on 
paternity leave had added a complication but nevertheless this was resolved on 4 August 
and a mortgage offer issued on 10 August. L&C accepted this would have added a further 
period of 8 days delay.
As to the provision of the DD, L&C said they were asked by X bank to obtain a DD from 
Miss H and Mr S on 12 August, which was a Friday, and this was provided to them on the 
Tuesday 16 August, which they felt was reasonable as there was a weekend separating 
those dates. L&C did not think they had failed to adequately update Miss H and Mr S, since 
they said that whenever they received information from X bank they passed it along. They 
recognised that the date for the valuation, which X bank had arranged, proved to be 
incorrect but said that was a matter outside of their control.
Recognising that their service had fallen below an acceptable standard, L&C offered Miss H 
and Mr S £100 as an apology for the inconvenience or stress caused.
Miss H and Mr S were unhappy with L&Cs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there 
had been poor service, the amount of compensation L&C offered was enough to put things 
right. Miss H and Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered 
all the available evidence. L&C has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of 
that it offered to compensate Miss H and Mr S with £100. I should say to begin with that I 
agree that Miss H and Mr S have received a poor service and that they ought to receive 
some compensation. When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation 
might be, we consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and 
inconvenience that may have been caused and we try to place customers back into the 
position they would otherwise have been in. We categorise awards and examples of these 
can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures.
Fortunately, Miss H and Mr S did get the mortgage product they wanted, so in that respect 
they have no loss. The issue becomes whether the delay caused by L&C has caused them 
any loss. Certainly, I accept X bank would probably have issued their mortgage offer a little 
sooner than it did, but it is impossible to know whether that would have been 15 days earlier 
or just a few. L&C have said that at that time the usual timescale for X bank to make a 
mortgage offer was an average of 34 days, although by mid-July it had moved to 38 days. 
As Miss H and Mr S made their application on 8 July it seems likely, using these average 
figures, that if there hadnt been any errors, they could have expected to receive a mortgage 
offer from X bank by 11 August, that being the 34-day point. In fact, they received their offer 
on 10 August which is within that timeframe.
In relation to their rent, I accept that Miss H and Mr S would not have been able to give 
notice to their landlord until they received their mortgage offer and they knew they were able 
to commit to their purchase. Miss H and Mr S gave notice on 24 August, and this is some 
two weeks after receiving their mortgage offer. It seems to me that it is more likely than not 
that notice was given to their landlord on that date because it coincided with their monthly rent due date, rather than being directly linked to the submission of their missives. Whilst I 
accept that it is possible the missives could have been concluded earlier, its also possible 
they might not. Even if the missives had concluded 15 days earlier, that being the period of 
delay, it seems more likely than not that Miss H and Mr S would have ended up having to 
pay another months rent in any event. I say that because they were renting on a monthly 
basis, rather than a weekly basis. So, I dont think the delay caused by L&C had any impact 
on the date Miss H and Mr S gave their notice.
L&Cs notes show that when it had information to pass on to Miss H and Mr S it did so in 
good time and although the valuation date they advised turned out to be wrong, this was not 
their fault as they were simply passing on the information given to it by X bank.
For very obvious reasons, taking paternity leave is fluid and not something which can be 
planned with precision. Although it is unfortunate L&C didnt advise Miss H and Mr S that L 
had gone on paternity leave, it actually didnt have any impact on their application as issues 
which arose were dealt with by L&Cs case management team as they would have been in 
any event. L&C did also provide an alternative contact for Miss H and Mr S after their 
application was submitted.
In relation to the DD, this was provided to Miss H and Mr S within a reasonable time period, 
considering L&Cs office was closed for administrative purposes over the weekend.
So, although Miss H and Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst 
L&C have indeed made errors, I cant say L&Cs errors have had a great impact here, and 
as such I think the offer L&C made was fairly and reasonable.
My final decision
London and Country Mortgages Ltd trading as L& has already made an offer to pay £100 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that London and Country Mortgages Ltd trading as L&C should pay £100 
to Miss H and Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman