DRN-3187601
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him term assurance 
alongside his mortgage lending in 1997. He says he did not want or need the policy.  
What happened
In August 1997, Mr T took out mortgage lending with RBS. Alongside that lending, he took 
out a life assurance policy, with a sum assured matching the mortgage value and for the 
same 28 year term. 
Mr T later cleared his mortgage with RBS. The life assurance was cancelled in June 2005.  
In 2019, Mr T complained to RBS. He explained that he did not require the cover as he held 
sufficient life cover through his employment. Further, he was unhappy that the policy was 
assigned to RBS, and not to his wife in the event of a valid claim. He noted to RBS that he 
felt he had been mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  with this policy being one of 
four policies he was complaining about; these were two from 1997 and two from 2002.  
Many months of correspondence ensued between the parties as RBS could not initially 
identify the policy. When it was located, RBS confirmed Mr Ts policy was not PPI, but term 
assurance. Mr T said he disagreed, and that RBS had ignored the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) definition of PPI which he felt was a long term protection contract.   
RBS rejected the complaint in September 2020. It said the complaint had been made outside 
of the time limits applying to this service. Specifically, if Mr T was unhappy with the policy 
being required, he had sufficient cause to raise his concerns within six years of the sale. 
Mr T therefore brought his complaint to this service, supplying detailed arguments as to why 
he believed it ought to be considered. He said the earliest point he could have furthered the 
complaint was January 2020  the date when RBS agreed a policy had existed. To fail to 
review the complaint now was, in his view, RBS relying on a technicality. He also felt it 
should be answered as to whether the policy he was sold was PPI  as defined by the FCA. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators, who also believed the complaint 
had been made too late. So, Mr T asked for it to be sent to an ombudsman.  
An ombudsman issued a decision. In that decision he confirmed the type of policy Mr T was 
sold was term assurance, not PPI. He reached a different view on the time limits, finding that 
he considered Mr T to have complained within three years of the cause for complaint; that 
was not at the time of the sale, but when he complained in 2020.  
Another investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. However, he did not 
think the complaint should succeed. He concluded that RBS had reasonably required the 
policy as part of the mortgage lending  whether or not Mr T had other provisions through his 
job. Further, it was also fair for RBS to assign the cover to repay the mortgage if Mr T had 
died during the policy term.  
Mr T said he disagreed with the decision. He made further detailed written submissions. I 
have considered these in their entirety, though I will not be setting them out again in full 
here. In summary, Mr T said:
the FCA lists a number of common failings with mortgage related insurance policies;
the investigator ignored these but they all apply to Mr T;
they include leading a customer to believe that the policy had to be taken out in order 
to obtain a loan, not disclosing that the customer could cancel the policy within the 
cooling-off period, not making it clear that the sale was non-advised and not telling 
the customer about the cost of the policy;
the investigator mistakenly said the premiums would reduce  which was not the 
case and Mr T felt this showed a fundamental misunderstanding of the nature of the 
policy and therefore the complaint;
he also said the policy would provide a lump sum for Mr Ts wife but it was assigned 
to RBS;
the commission paid for the sale wasnt considered;
the argument that Mr Ts employment benefits may have stopped is irrelevant - as 
the life policy would only have covered him in the event he died, not if he lost his job;
it is unfair to say it was custom and practice in 1997 to insist on these policies  that 
cannot be true if banks have paid out millions of pounds in compensation for PPI mis-
sales;
the documents supplied by RBS do not match those held by Mr T and this causes 
him to question their authenticity for which RBS ought to be put to strict proof;
in Mr Ts opinion, the investigator sidestepped all relevant rules, and law when 
reaching his view.   
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view. 
Mr T asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He also supplied eleven 
further pages of submissions. I thank Mr T for taking the time to provide such a detailed 
response. As before, I will not be repeating the submissions here though I have read the 
document. I also wont be setting out repeated submissions as the occur earlier in the 
complaint. The new comments Mr T wanted considered were:
the investigator said Mr T could have obtained his borrowing elsewhere but also that 
it was commonplace for protection policies to be a condition of lending at that time  
these two things are contradictory;
it has merely been assumed that he was given the right to cancel;
he did not receive the recommendation letter that the investigator referred to;
the letter is also not a copy of the original letter;
he also did not receive the key features document;
he believes these have been retrospectively constructed to appear compliant;
it is unfair that the investigator will not question the authenticity of the 
recommendations letter;
the investigator questioned the permanency of Mr Ts employment in order to justify 
and support RBSs actions when he should have considered the circumstances at 
the point of sale.
RBS had no additional comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It should be noted that this complaint has been pursued alongside another complaint about a 
2002 sale. Whilst the background and findings for both complaints will contain some of the 
same information and overlap, they have each been considered in their own right.  
I can see Mr T has gone to a considerable effort in corresponding with both RBS and our 
service. I also note hes supplied detailed comments of his view on the complaint on several 
occasions as referred to above. Whilst Im sorry this wont be what Mr T has hoped for, I 
dont believe this complaint about the sale of the 1997 policy should succeed.
I wont be addressing every individual submission Mr T has made. I have read them but I am 
not required to make findings on each point. My remit is to make findings on what I believe to 
be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances. I will therefore set out my 
reasoning for what I consider are the central issues in this complaint. 
In summary, my findings are:
I understand that Mr T had a longstanding relationship with RBS and therefore he 
approached it in relation to mortgage lending in 1997;
as part of the lending, RBS told Mr T that it required a protection policy to be taken 
out alongside the lending;
for that reason, Mr T was then sent a letter of 11 August 1997 by RBS where it 
agreed a mortgage in principle for the property and set out the conditions  including 
the requirement for the mortgage assurance;
though Mr T has explained RBS said it was a non-advised sale, that is not the case  
a full written recommendation was issued to him on 18 August 1997;
at that time RBS required security for the lending in the form of life assurance and it 
could reasonably decide the criteria for which it was prepared to lend funds;
if Mr T had been unhappy with the provision that he held such a policy with HSBC, 
then he could have decided to apply for his lending elsewhere;
the provision was set out to him before the protection policy began;
irrespective of the requirement for such cover, I do not find the proposal was an 
unreasonable recommendation for the adviser to make in Mr Ts circumstances; 
that is notwithstanding any commission paid to RBS for the sale of the policy  which 
was something RBS was able to do at that time (prior to 2012, when the rules around 
commission payments changed);
I do not believe the provision of commission rendered the recommendation 
unsuitable n the circumstances;
a term assurance policy is the generally recommended type of cover for mortgage 
lending  as it has a set sum assured for the policy term, either a level sum for 
interest-only mortgages or a decreasing sum reducing broadly in line with the 
repayments of a debt;
and the policy proposed to Mr T met the mortgage amount and term, on a decreasing 
basis as appropriate for a capital repayment mortgage;
I do not accept the argument that the documentation from 1997 has been recreated 
or falsified by RBS and I have seen no objective evidence that this is the case;
there is a significant passage of time from the sale and the records may not be 
replicated exactly as the letterheaded paperwork Mr T received in 1997;
but, I am reasonably persuaded that the recommendations letter of 18 August 1997 
accurately included an assessment of Mr Ts recorded circumstances at the time;
I am also of the view that it was more likely than not that a cancellation notice was 
issued with the policy having seen the documentation entitled COOLING OFF 
NOTICE;insurances such as life assurance are a prudent step to take to provide security for a 
significant liability such as a mortgage;
and though Mr T held £104,000 of life cover through his employment  this was not 
guaranteed in the same way a policy assigned to RBS was, providing premiums were 
maintained;
that is because jobs can be involuntarily lost, for example through redundancy  and 
for this reason workplace lifer cover benefits do not provide the same security as an 
agreed term assurance for the same length, type, and amount of agreed mortgage 
lending;
the policy ran up to the time the mortgage was repaid, and so Mr Ts family could 
reasonably have pursued a claim under the policy if required;
in that eventuality, Mr Ts mortgage would have been cleared;
as such, I dont agree that the policy premiums ought to be returned to Mr T as 
redress when those premiums paid for insurance that RBS has reasonably provided;
in reaching my findings I will take account of relevant laws, regulations and best 
industry practice alongside the evidence before me;
I disagree that RBS has caused the failings that Mr T refers to under FCA guidance;
I do not believe it has been shown that RBS misled Mr T  contrarily it set out the 
obligation for the mortgage lending, it was for the insurer to issue cancellation notices 
which I have seen, I do not believe the sale was non-advised and the total cost of the 
policy premiums were set out to Mr T in the relevant policy schedule. 
For the above reasons, I do not believe this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman