DRN-1543050
The complaint
Mr W complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) shouldnt have 
dealt with a claim made by another party on his motor insurance policy as it did. 
What happened
Mr W accepts that he reversed his car into the side of a stationary van owned by firm R. He 
didnt report it to LV as he didnt want to make a claim. When LV was told about the accident 
by firm Rs solicitors, it contacted Mr W. He said the van shouldnt have been parked where 
it was. He also said the damage hed caused was less than the sum claimed for, as there 
was pre-existing damage to the door his car hit. He said hed spoken to the vans driver 
since the accident, who told him the van wasnt going to be repaired, despite LV having 
settled the claim. Mr W also said LV had taken too long to deal with the matter. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint. He said LV was obliged to deal with the 
claim once it was made aware of it - and that the policy gave LV the right to settle any claim 
as it saw fit. He said LVs engineer had advised it that the vans door needed to be replaced, 
regardless of any pre-existing damage to it. The investigator didnt think there was any 
undue delay on LVs part in handling the claim.
Mr W said the damaged van was still on the road, unrepaired. He repeated that the sum 
claimed to put the damage right wasnt all due to the collision hed caused. And he queried 
whether it was right for LV to have apparently paid firm Rs solicitors a cash sum. The 
investigator said it was fair for LV to rely on the evidence from firm Rs solicitors, some of 
which was reviewed by its own engineer. And he said the cash payment Mr W had referred 
to was a cash in lieu payment made by cheque to cover the cost of repairs in advance. 
As Mr W remained unhappy, his complaint was passed to me for review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr W should have reported the accident to LV whether he intended to make a claim 
or not. When another party is involved, the other party is entitled to report the claim and try 
to recover any losses from the insurer of the driver who caused the accident. So in my 
opinion there was nothing wrong in firm R or its solicitors contacting LV directly. 
 
Mr W believes that the van shouldnt have been parked where it was. Regardless of that, the 
vehicle was stationary and was there to be seen. Mr W accepts that he reversed into it. 
Based on those facts, I think it was reasonable for LV to decide that he was at fault and to 
accept full liability for the accident. 
We only interfere with the discretion an insurer has to settle a claim as it sees fit if we think it 
has acted unreasonably in doing so. In this case, before settling the claim, I think LV 
considered all the available evidence, including the engineers report provided by firm Rs 
solicitors. Mr W isnt happy that he hasnt seen the report, but LVs engineer reviewed it and 
concluded that the sum claimed by firm R for putting matters right wasnt excessive. Weve 
also had sight of the report, plus the comments made by LVs engineer.  
I think LV acted reasonably in relying on its engineers opinion and in settling the claim as it 
did. Mr W now has a fault claim on his record, which is likely to affect his future premiums. 
That was unavoidable, as he accepted that hed caused the accident. But its unlikely that 
the amount of the settlement will have an adverse impact on him.
It seems there was a misunderstanding on Mr Ws part about cash being paid to firm Rs 
solicitors. I dont think there was anything wrong in LV paying firm R a cash in lieu of repairs 
sum through its solicitors. As LV had accepted liability for the accident and had agreed the 
sum it owed firm R, I think it had a duty to ensure it was paid. Paying cash in lieu of repairs is 
common practice in motor insurance claims. In my opinion, its reasonable for the party who 
wasnt at fault to decide whether to have any repairs done - and if so when. So I dont think it 
was wrong for LV not to insist that they were completed before it settled the claim. 
  
I dont think Mr W has shown that LV caused any delay in dealing with the claim  or that the 
time that was taken had any effect on him. As LV advised Mr W in August 2019, the time 
firm Rs solicitors took to complete the tasks they were responsible for was out of its control. 
As I dont think Mr W has shown that LV acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman