DRN-3145823
The complaint
Mr C complains about the refund given by Well Dunn Limited trading as Insurance 
Revolution Broking Services after it incorrectly set up his commercial vehicle insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr C approached Well Dunn  an insurance broker - for a quotation to insure his van, which 
Ill call van A. Mr C found a cheaper policy elsewhere so never took out the policy with Well 
Dunn.
Mr C later approached Well Dunn for a quotation to insure another van, which Ill call van B. 
Mr C accepted this quote, paid a deposit of £537 and took out the policy. But when he 
received the documents, he noticed the policy insured van A, not van B as he needed.
Mr C contacted Well Dunn to let them know of the error. His policy was cancelled and a new 
one was set up, this time correctly insuring van B.
But Well Dunn didnt fully refund Mr Cs deposit for the first, incorrect policy. It refunded him 
£204.54, meaning Mr C effectively paid £332.46 for the first policy.
Mr C wasnt happy with this and complained. He said he was already insured for van A with 
another business and didnt think it was fair he had to pay for two policies to cover that van. 
He says the policy wasnt set up to cover van B, so doesnt think its fair hes charged 
anything for it. He also wasnt happy he was driving around uninsured for 19 days.
Well Dunn said although the policy was set up to insure van A in error, it would have stepped 
in and covered any claim that may have come in during that time, or it would have provided 
a letter confirming its error had Mr C been stopped by the police for driving without 
insurance. It also said it didnt charge Mr C to cancel the policy, didnt charge him a set-up 
fee for the new policy and discounted that policy by a further £98.94.
Mr C wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended it be upheld. She didnt think Well Dunn was fairly charging 
Mr C for a service it didnt provide. She acknowledged its point about covering any claims 
that may have come in and letting the policy know of its error but didnt think it was fair it 
charged Mr C for this. She also appreciated that Well Dunn said it didnt charge a set-up fee 
but said it couldnt evidence what fee it would have charged. And she thought that the 
£98.94 discount was appropriate compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Well Dunn didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in question here that Well Dunn set up a policy incorrectly for Mr C. It set up a policy 
for the wrong van. This had two consequences. The first being Mr C was driving van B 
uninsured. The second being Mr C paying for two policies for van A.
Its not fair that Mr C is charged twice for a policy on van A. He cant benefit from it twice. 
And it was never his intention to be dual insured. The policy that was set up initially by Well 
Dunn was of no use to Mr C. And this was a result of Well Dunns error.
So, Mr C shouldnt lose out financially because of that error. I dont find it reasonable he 
pays anything toward a policy he had no use for. I appreciate Well Dunns point that had Mr 
C been stopped by the police, it would have given him a letter explaining that the error was 
its, not Mr Cs. And I also take on board Well Dunns point that if Mr C was involved in a 
claim of any kind during those 19 days he wasnt insured on the right van, that it would have 
stepped in and dealt with the claim. Thats encouraging to hear, because that is what wed 
expect it to do in those circumstances.
But that isnt what happened. Luckily for both Mr C and Well Dunn, neither of those two 
things transpired. Therefore, its not reasonable to charge Mr C to cover hypothetical events, 
that didnt happen. Well Dunn arent an insurer, theyre a broker, they were never on risk for 
any claims. Had something happened, theyd need to step in, as theyve said they would. 
But that would have been to rectify their error, not to provide the service Mr C paid for.
Well Dunn said they didnt charge a £100 cancellation fee. This is good, but no less than 
what Id expect. It wasnt Mr Cs actions that meant the policy needed to be cancelled, so he 
shouldnt have been charged to cancel the policy.
Ive also considered that Well Dunn have said it didnt charge a set-up fee for the new, 
correct policy. But importantly its not been able to evidence what it would/should have 
charged on this policy. Without this Im unable to consider it further. Its let us know a range 
on what it would normally charge, but this doesnt evidence what would have happened on 
this policy.
I can see its discounted the new policy by £98.94. And I think this represents reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of Mr C finding out he was driving 
uninsured and having to call and correct Well Dunns error.
Putting things right
It was Well Dunns error that meant Mr C was paying for two policies to insure van A and 
none for van B. I dont find it reasonable that hes charged for the policy that Well Dunn 
incorrectly set up. Mr C paid £537 toward this policy and has been refunded £204.54. So, 
Well Dunn should refund Mr C the remaining £332.46.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. To put things right I require Well 
Dunn Limited trading as Insurance Revolution Broking Services to:
Refund Mr C £332.46 plus 8% simple interest (interest to be calculated for the day 
the policy cancelled to the day this payment is made)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 Joe Thornley
Ombudsman