DRN-3621964
The complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSCC) mis-sold him a package bank 
account
What happened
Mr P took out a HSBC Plus account in January 2008. Mr P tells us he was not aware he had 
to pay a fee for the account and had breakdown cover elsewhere. He didnt realise he had 
been paying the fee. So, Mr P feels he has been mis-sold the account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr 
P disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the HSBC Plus account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
There is limited information available from the time Mr P was sold his HSBC Plus account. 
But this isnt unusual considering how long ago the sale took place and that businesses 
arent required to keep this information indefinitely.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
There is no evidence from the time of the sale of Mr Ps HSBC Plus account to suggest 
HSBC gave Mr P a tailored recommendation to take it out. With this, and what we know 
about HSBCs sales processes at the time I think its unlikely that HSBC provided a 
recommendation to Mr P to take the account.
This means HSBC didnt have to check the HSBC Plus account was right for Mr P. But it did 
have to give Mr P the information he needed to decide if he wanted to take it or not.
At the time of the sale the HSBC Plus account came with worldwide family travel insurance 
(including winter sports), free worldwide cash withdrawals, preferential rates on savings and 
preferential credit interest rates. I think at least some of these benefits would have been 
discussed at the time of the sale. 
Breakdown cover was an added benefit that was included as part of Mr Ps account 
sometime after he took it out so I dont think this would have been a consideration for him at 
the time it was sold.
I have not seen anything to suggest Mr P wasnt able to use the benefits that came with the 
HSBC Plus account when he took it out. At the time Mr P took out the account he held a 
savings account and had a credit balance on the HSBC Plus account, so benefitted from the 
preferential rates mentioned above. Mr Ps account also shows he travelled abroad and took 
advantage of the free cash withdrawals that came with the account. As he was travelling, he 
could also have benefitted from the travel insurance should the need arise.
From the information available I think Mr P would have considered the benefits offered by 
the account useful and I dont have enough evidence to show Mr P didnt choose to have the 
account. So, I dont think the account was mis-sold to him.
Mr P has further said that he wasnt aware he was paying a fee for the account. I cant see 
all the correspondence sent to Mr P over the years he held the account, but he continued to 
hold the account from 2008 to 2021. 
The evidence provided by HSBC suggests Mr P was sent information when breakdown 
cover was added to the account in September 2008 and when the account was rebranded in 
February 2010. The Monthly charge would also have appeared on Mr Ps statement each 
month.
In addition to this HSBC has sent Mr P annual summary of account statements since 
December 2011 and annual eligibility statements for the account since March 2014. So, I 
think Mr P was reasonably aware he was being charged a fee for the account.
Further to the above Mr P has explained that he had brain surgery in 1996 which limits his 
ability to read and understand. I have thought about what Mr P has told us but this surgery 
took place sometime before the account was opened and I havent seen enough evidence to 
say Mr P wouldnt have known what he was agreeing to at the time, or that he was not either 
able to cancel or downgrade his account over the 13 years it was held.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman