DRN-2568778
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tandem Bank Limited didnt give him detailed interest calculations upon 
request, failed to advise him on a fee free product and closed his account.
 What happened
In January 2020, Tandem wrote to Mr M to say they were going to make changes to his 
credit card. The changes included a £5.99 membership fee but he would benefit from certain 
features. 
Mr M was given 60 days to decide if he wanted to opt into the new membership or his 
account would be closed. Mr M didnt want to pay for a new membership and informed 
Tandem of this. His account is now closed.
Mr M complained to Tandem as he didnt know why he was paying interest on cash 
balances when he pays his statement balance in full each month and he wasnt happy he 
had to close his account.
Tandem said that they were entitled to withdraw the credit card Mr M had as long as they 
provided the notice required by the regulators. They also referred Mr M to the terms and 
conditions of his account to explain how interest is calculated on payments deemed as 
cash. As a gesture of goodwill they offered to refund the £14.29 cash interest to Mr M.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response from Tandem so he brought his complaint to our 
service. He added that hed found out Tandem offered a fee free product and said that 
Tandem shouldve moved him to a fee free account and raised a concern about Tandem 
closing his account.
Although Mr Ms original complaint to Tandem was about the calculation of interest and 
closure of his account, Tandem agreed we could look at the fee free alternative product part 
of Mr Ms complaint. 
Tandem said that they gave Mr M the notice required (60 days) to make an informed 
decision if Mr M wanted to go to onto the new membership model, or his account would be 
closed. In reference to the fee free product, Tandem said that this was a different type of 
product to the one Mr M held and would be subject to different eligibility and lending criteria. 
Tandem added there was no regulatory requirement for them to move customers onto a 
different product.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. The investigator explained how the interest 
was calculated. The investigator said this was correct and in line with Tandems terms and 
conditions. Our investigator also said that Tandem were in within their rights to close the 
account/not offer fee free products as an alternative to Mr M. 
Mr M disagreed with the view of the investigator and wanted his complaint looked at by an 
Ombudsman. While he was given a detailed breakdown of interest he then said he wanted 
detailed calculations for 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tandem explain how they calculate the interest for transactions which are deemed to be 
cash related in the terms of the account. 
If you use your card for cash advances well charge interest:
From when the cash advance is added to your account until repaid in full;
Between your statement date and your payment date; and
On your interest if not paid in full - this is known as compound interest.
Interest accrued between your statement date and your payment date to clear the 
cash balance will be added to the balance of your next statement
If you pay by Direct Debit you may receive trailing interest until you make a manual 
payment to clear down the cash balance.
Having looked at all the information thats been provided here, Im satisfied that this is what 
Tandem have done. Tandem have also provided a more detailed breakdown of how they 
have calculated interest on Mr Ms account, which has been shared with him. Everything Ive 
seen satisfies me that Tandem has calculated the interest on Mr Ms account correctly for 
the periods of time hes concerned with.
For example, where Mr M has raised concerns about how interest was calculated in 2019 his 
July-September statements show that he paid his balance in full for the transactions showing 
on his July statement by direct debit. A withdrawal of Euros was made at a cash machine on 
20 August 2019. As this would be classed under the cash advances detailed above then 
interest would be payable. Mr Ms direct debit for Augusts statement was paid on 30 
September 2019, so there would be cash interest payable as the 56 days interest free period 
only applies to purchases when the balance is paid off in full each month and doesnt relate 
to cash transactions. I think this is a useful example to illustrate why I think Tandem has 
applied the interest correctly to Mr Ms account here.
I know Mr M has asked Tandem to provide calculations for all of 2019 as the above figures 
are for his last statement and I think this is a fair request hes made. 
Tandem have said they are unable to send detailed interest calculations for all of 2019 as 
their system doesnt go back that far. The initial complaint was specifically about how 
Tandem calculate interest and whether it was correct. As Tandem have confirmed the 
calculation thats been shared with Mr M is accurate and I agree that it does seem to be, 
based on the figures shown, Im satisfied that any period before this statement would be 
calculated in the same way. Ive certainly seen no evidence to suggest otherwise.
Attached to Mr Ms September 2019 statement there is an annual credit card summary. This 
covers transactions from 5 September 2018  3 September 2019. This statement shows 
£630.02 of total cash advances with total cash interest of £7.83. Broadly, this seems a fair 
calculation of interest which is payable. So while Tandem are unable to go back to cover all 
of 2019 these figures will hopefully give Mr M an idea of the interest Tandem have charged 
during the majority of the period he requested.Although Mr M pays his statement balance off in full each month, unless he made a payment 
when a cash transaction shows on his account, for the value of the transaction there would 
always be trailing interest on the following statement. Thats whats happened here, 
therefore Im satisfied the correct interest has been calculated on his credit card. Tandem 
have offered to refund £14.29 in cash interest charges to Mr M as a gesture of goodwill so 
he is entitled to take them up on this offer if he wishes.
With regards to Mr Ms account type changing - Tandem are entitled to make changes to the 
terms and conditions of the credit card as long as they gave sufficient notice. In this instance 
they gave Mr M 60 days to either join their new membership for £5.99 in exchange for 
certain benefits or they would close his account. Mr M chose to close his account. Im 
satisfied Tandem were fair to Mr M as they gave him plenty of notice to make an informed 
decision so I dont believe Tandem did anything wrong here.
Lastly, Ive considered whether it was unreasonable for Tandem not to suggest a fee free 
product when they had one available. Tandem are not obliged to promote other products to 
their customers, even when one product may be more suitable. Im satisfied that it wasnt 
unreasonable for them not to do so here. I say this as Tandem have explained the fee free 
product is a completely different account to the one Mr M held. Tandem said that this would 
have different eligibility criteria, would require new affordability checks and they would have 
to complete another credit score. 
To summarise Im satisfied that Tandem have fairly calculated the interest, offered enough 
notice to change their criteria for the credit card and are within their rights to not offer 
alternative products when the eligibility criteria is different. So it follows I wont be asking 
Tandem to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman