DRN-3389411
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wrongly 
recorded missed payments on his credit file. And that, when he complained, VWFS took too 
long to correct the information.
What happened
Mr M obtained a car in June 2017 through a three-year hire agreement with VWFS.
In March 2020, Mr M wanted to end the agreement and he paid the settlement figure. But, 
shortly afterwards, he changed his mind and asked for the termination to be reversed. VWFS 
initially told Mr M it couldnt reverse the termination. But, when he complained, VWFS upheld 
his complaint and reversed the termination. It said the amount Mr M had paid would be used 
to cover his monthly rental payments. The agreement ended in June 2020 and the car was 
collected.
But, in the same month, Mr M received correspondence to tell him his account was in 
arrears and this was recorded on his credit file. 
VWFS said the arrears notice had been automatically generated and was wrong. And, in 
early November 2020, it said it would amend his credit file but failed to do so. It apologised 
and offered to pay Mr M £250. It said this represented £25 for each month his credit file had 
been impacted, plus a further £50 for failing to amend his credit file when it should have 
done.
Our investigator thought VWFSs offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr M didnt agree. He told us VWFS had increased its offer to £450, which VWFS hadnt 
made us aware of. He said his credit score went from him being a low risk borrower to a 
high-risk borrower and this affected his ability to obtain credit at a time when he was under 
financial strain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision isnt about the termination process itself. Our investigator explained we cant 
consider Mr Ms complaint about the termination process because the complaint was 
referred to us more than six months after the final response letter. I agree with our 
investigators conclusion and, as Mr M didnt provide any further comment about this, I will 
focus on his complaint about the adverse information recorded on his credit file, which has 
been brought to us in time.
VWFS explained that Mr Ms credit file was affected because missed payments were 
wrongly recorded from March to November 2020. Im satisfied that its apologised and 
corrected the information. The only matter that remains in dispute is how much 
compensation VWFS should pay.
Ive considered this very carefully. And I appreciate what Mr M has told us about the financial 
difficulties he faced coming out of the national lockdown. He says he would have faced high 
interest rates if hed tried to borrow money because of what was recorded on his credit file. 
And I accept thats possible. But Mr M didnt apply for any credit. So I cant conclude that he 
was unsuccessful in applying for credit, or that he wasnt offered a competitive interest rate 
on borrowing, because of the missed payments recorded on his credit file. For that reason, 
I think the VWFSs offer of £450 is fair and reasonable. It represents £50 for each month 
Mr Ms credit file was wrong, and £50 for the inconvenience caused.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and hes said he will consider taking 
legal action. He will be free to do so if he chooses not to accept my decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay Mr M £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman