DRN-1597782
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in January 2002
when Mr B applied for the card.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He replied in some detail to say, in summary, that:
He's never knowingly purchased PPI. He didn't know he was being sold a separate 
financial product when he signed the credit card application form.
He's never had a meeting to take out a credit card and he didn't speak to a Halifax 
member of staff when he took out the card.
He had a secure job and savings and had no reason to take out a policy which only 
covered 10% of his credit card repayments.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Bs complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and I'll explain why.
When Mr B brought his complaint to this service, he told us "To the best of my knowledge, I 
applied for the card during a meeting". But he now says a meeting never took place and he 
didn't speak to a member of staff. Whilst there may not have been a pre-booked meeting to 
discuss the credit card application, Halifax's records show the application took place in one 
of its branches. And I can see from the application form that it was pre-populated with Mr B's 
personal details. So I think it's most likely that he did complete the application in branch with 
the help of a member of staff. I'm not surprised Mr B can't remember this, and that what he's 
told us has changed, as it took place so long ago.
Mr B told us he didn't knowingly purchase the PPI and that he was not made aware it was a 
separate product. Ive considered this carefully, but I have to take into account how longago the sale was and how this might affect what Mr B recalls. I can't be sure exactly what 
was discussed at the time, so I've placed more reliance on the paperwork that was 
completed at the time. In all likelihood, the member of staff would have filled in the 
application form electronically during the discussion with Mr B and printed it off for signature. 
As part of this process, the member of staff would have needed Mr Bs agreement to the PPI 
insurance so that the box could be crossed. Mr B would then have had time to read through 
the form, before signing to agree that the details were correct. So, overall, I think Halifax 
made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr B chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to make sure it was suitable for him. Hes
told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay from his 
employer if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident and that he had some savings. 
But, in the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have paid out in addition to his sick 
pay and for up to 12 months. So he would have had the peace of mind to know that his 
credit card payments were being met and his sick pay could have been used for other 
outgoings. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit for him, despite his existing 
arrangements. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. Overall, it doesnt look as if 
the PPI was unsuitable for Mr B based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But I've found that Mr B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr B would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he 
would still have taken out the policy, despite what he says now. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman