DRN-3495596
The complaint
Mrs K complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) for the way it 
assessed damage under her claim. She wants RSA to undertake a further inspection and to 
amend the scope of works. 
What happened
Mrs K has buildings insurance with RSA. 
In early 2021, there was an escape of water in the flat above and water penetrated her flat 
below, into the bedroom, hallway and kitchen/living room.  
She logged a claim with RSA in March 2021. 
RSA appointed loss adjusters to visit Mrs Ks home. They attended and took thermal 
moisture readings and concluded that the property was by then dry. 
Mrs K was not happy with the way readings had been taken so RSA sent a second loss 
adjuster out. They also took thermal readings and concluded that the property was dry.
RSA prepared a scope of works for repairs. Mrs K was not happy that this did not include 
works in the bedroom or bathroom, and she was concerned that flooring underneath carpets 
may be affected as the flooring in the hallway had begun to lift where it had got wet. 
Mrs K complained to RSA. RSA did not uphold her complaint and explained that the damage 
in the bathroom was unrelated to the escape of water, and that they were satisfied that 
moisture readings had been properly taken. 
Mrs K was not happy and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that 
RSA had acted reasonably in its assessment of the damage to be repaired. She therefore 
did not ask RSA to do anything further. 
Mrs K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ks worry here and she is understandably concerned to make sure that all 
damage caused by the leak is incorporated into her claim. She is worried that by not lifting 
the carpets it is possible that the underflooring could have been damaged and this has not 
been factored into the claim. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators view that RSA has acted reasonably in the way it 
has assessed the damage. 
Mrs K does not dispute that the bathroom damage is outside of this claim and has indicated 
that she accepts that the carpets are outside of a buildings claim and should be in a contents 
claim instead. I therefore have not looked at this further. 
Mrs K is worried that the flooring under her carpets, which is of the same type as the flooring 
which has started to lift in the hallway (this has been included in the scope of works), may 
have lifted under the carpets and not have been seen. She is also worried that the same 
may have happened under furniture which she is unable to move. 
I agree with my colleague that RSAs assessment was reasonable and using thermal 
readings to assess moisture is appropriate and an industry standard. It is sensible to use the 
least invasive method to assess damage rather than add to damage, especially where that 
damage may not be covered by other insurance. 
There is no evidence that damage has occurred underneath he carpets, but if evidence 
subsequently emerges showing damage to the floor underneath the carpets, and it is likely 
that this was caused by the current claim, I would expect that RSA then add that work to the 
scope, and to the current claim. 
Mrs K has also been worried that wallpapered walls may have been damaged, and the 
scope of works only details paint as the decoration. If wallpaper has been damaged by the 
escape of water, we would expect the scope to include repairs to, or replacement of the 
decoration on a like for like basis. 
I agree with my colleague that the scope of works includes all damage which is currently 
evident and which has been caused by the escape of water. On that basis I think it is 
reasonable. If further damage is revealed, and can be attributed to the escape of water, that 
damage ought to be added to the same claim.
Overall, I agree that RSA has acted reasonably in its assessment of the damage and I do 
not uphold the complaint. 
Moving forward, it remains open to Mrs K to have RSA carry out the repairs by instructing its 
own contractors. If RSAs contractors undertake the repairs then they will be able to feed 
back any further damage to RSA and have RSA consider it quickly. 
If Mrs K chooses to settle the claim, then this should be done on the basis of the policy terms 
and the current scope of works. 
If RSA elects to settle the claim, then this should be done on the basis of the market rate 
which is achievable to Mrs K for the repairs, and this should include any specialist 
contractors required, for example for the flooring. 
I therefore do not ask RSA to do anything further in relation to this complaint. I realise this 
will be disappointing to Mrs K but I hope that it makes clear my reasoning and reassures her 
that RSA ought to carry out repairs for her to put her back into the position she was in before 
the damage, or if further damage emerges, that RSA will consider it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint and do not ask Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman