DRN-2952785
The complaint
Mr B complains about a late payment marker added to his credit file by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. He says that Barclays has waived the charge that caused this late payment marker, so 
it knows it got this wrong, and it should remove the marker too.
What happened
Mr B said he had a Barclaycard account which was dormant. He said that the card number 
must have been held with an online retailer, because he made a purchase and this card was 
charged. Mr B said that he didnt know this was what had happened, he just got a text 
message saying he needed to pay £15. So he tried to get in touch with Barclays to find out 
why. Mr B said that he didnt manage to get through, and eventually a late payment marker 
was added to his credit file. Mr B said that this would all have been sorted out if hed been 
able to get through to Barclays on the phone. He wanted his credit file to be cleared, and for 
Barclays to pay him compensation.
Barclays set out a timeline of what happened. 
19 June  Barclays sent Mr B a statement, saying he owed £15 for a purchase. Payment 
was due by 14 July.
14 July  Mr Bs direct debit was returned unpaid, Mr B had cancelled it some time earlier.
17 July  Mr B paid the outstanding balance. Barclays didnt apply a late payment marker at 
that time. Mr B had no previous late payments, so it gave him a 14-day grace period. 
21 July  Barclays sent Mr B a statement, saying he now owed £12 for a late payment fee, 
and £0.38 for interest. Payment was due by 20 August. 
29 July  Barclays sent Mr B an SMS to remind him about the payment.
20 August - Barclays sent Mr B a second SMS to remind him about the payment. Mr B didnt 
pay, so Barclays said it applied a late payment marker then. 
21 August - Barclays sent Mr B a statement, saying he owed £12.39 (made up of the fee and 
interest set out above, plus one penny more of interest). Payment was due by 18 
September.
18 September  Barclays reminded Mr B about the payment due. Mr B then got in touch with 
Barclays, and it cleared the debt on his account as a gesture of goodwill. 
Barclays said that it understood that wait times for its call handlers were longer, as a result of 
the pandemic. But it said that Mr B had a number of options to pay, so he didnt need to wait 
on the phone to do that. And it said that information on what the payments were for was on 
his statements. 
Barclays wouldnt amend Mr Bs credit file. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. It sent 
our service statements which show that Mr B had also used this card with the same retailer 
the month before. That transaction was credited back to his card on 8 June, and on the 
same day he made the transaction which is the subject of this complaint.
Mr B said that the only way he could make a payment was over the phone  he doesnt have 
a card or online banking. So our investigator got in touch with Barclays to see if Mr B had 
attempted to pay and couldnt due to limitations on Barclays phone lines at the time. Mr B 
also said that hed discussed the payment for the late fee with Barclays well before it was 
due, and hed understood that Barclays was looking into this, so he didnt think he had to 
make that payment. Our investigator asked Barclays about this too. 
Mr B sent us his phone bills, and said those should show hed tried to call Barclays. Our 
investigator said that she couldnt see any calls to Barclays on Mr Bs bills. Barclays thought 
this could be because those calls were free. 
Barclays said Mr B did have online banking access. it had emailed him on 9 July 2020, as he 
hadnt logged in for over 90 days. Barclays said Mr B could have updated his details online 
and used online banking. Or if he just wanted to make a payment, he could go into a branch 
or post a cheque. 
Barclays showed our service evidence that it could only see three calls from Mr B, two calls 
in July 2020 and one call in September 2020.
Barclays said on 13 July 2020, Mr B spoke to Barclays, querying the £5.00 that Barclaycard 
were going to take from his bank account. He was transferred to Barclaycard, but Barclays 
said Mr B did not wait to speak to an agent and the call ended. On 17 July 2020, Mr B rang 
again, and was told about the transactions on his account. He agreed to make a payment. 
He wanted to close the card, but didnt want to wait to speak to someone who could help him 
with that, so the agent suggested he could do this on through online banking. Mr B wasnt 
warned about a late payment fee on this call because that fee hadnt yet been charged. 
Mr B didnt speak to Barclays again for some time after this. His next payment date came 
and went with no payment or contact from Mr B. Mr B complained about the late payment 
charge by text on 18 September 2020, when the £12.00 charge and interest were refunded 
as a gesture of goodwill.
On 24 September 2020, Mr B called to complain. 
Mr B said he couldnt evidence other calls to Barclays which he said hed made. But he said 
it was surely not right that Barclays had recorded a late payment marker because he didnt 
pay a fee that Barclays then waived.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she understood that 
Mr B wanted to be sure what the payment was for, before he made it, but she said that he 
hadnt waited on the line on 13 July, or updated his online banking and checked his 
statements there. So she thought that when he then didnt pay on time, Barclays had fairly 
applied a late payment fee to Mr Bs account. Barclays had then told Mr B that this fee was 
due, and sent him reminders. He didnt make the payment, which was due on 20 August. 
The fee wasnt waived until 18 September. 
Our investigator said the waiver had been done as a gesture of goodwill by Barclays. She 
said that because the fee was justified, Barclays didnt have to remove the late payment marker too. And she hadnt been able to see that Mr B had been in touch with Barclays 
before this fee was due to be paid, or that Barclays had agreed to look into this for him. 
Our investigator said she wouldnt ask Barclays to remove the marker on Mr Bs credit file. 
Mr B didnt accept that. He wanted his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so this file 
came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr B has told us he wanted to know why he was being asked to pay towards his Barclaycard 
in July, and he couldnt get this information. I do understand that call wait times were long at 
this point, but Barclays has identified other ways that Mr B could get this information. And it 
does remain Mr Bs responsibility to make a payment. Even if Mr B wasnt sure why hed 
been asked to make a payment, I have to bear in mind that he could still have paid, and 
checked or challenged this at a later date.
Mr B didnt make this payment on time. Theres no late marker on his credit file for this July 
payment, because Barclays said it gave him a short grace period to make the payment, and 
he paid in that time. But Barclays did charge Mr B a late payment fee. I dont think Barclays 
did anything wrong when it did that. 
Because Barclays charged Mr B a fee, and because interest was due on his purchase, there 
was a balance on his next statement. Mr B said he rang to query this, and Barclays 
promised to look into it, but Barclays has no record of that. I would expect Barclays to have a 
record, if it spoke to Mr B about this, so I dont think its likely that Barclays had agreed to 
review this fee for Mr B, before it was due. 
Mr B didnt make this payment at all. Barclays then sent a late or missed payment 
notification to credit reference agencies. I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it did 
that. 
I know that some time later, Barclays waived the fee and interest on Mr Bs card. But as our 
investigator said, Barclays appears to have done this purely as a gesture of goodwill. 
Waiving a fee later, which was correctly charged, doesnt also mean that Barclays has to tell 
credit reference agencies to remove the late payment marker which was applied when the 
fee wasnt paid.
I do understand that Mr B feels this is unfair. Hes told us that he is trying to remortgage, and 
this recent late payment marker is causing him difficulties with this. I understand that the way 
other lenders interpret these markers can feel disproportionate to whats happened. But I 
dont think that Barclays has done anything wrong here. So, although I know Mr B will be 
very disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman