DRN-3539160
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the advice she was given to invest by Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax (Halifax). 
Mrs P is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I shall refer to Mrs P in my 
decision. 
What happened
Mrs P inherited some funds from her late mother and in 2006 approached Halifax to discuss 
her savings and investment options. 
Upon the advice she received, Mrs P invested £4,000 on 29 March 2006 into several funds 
within an ISA wrapper. Mrs P says she was advised to invest at the wrong time  too soon 
after the death of her mother. It was a difficult period for her, and she should have been 
given more time to become accustomed to her new financial situation and the loss of her 
mother. 
Mrs P has said she was an inexperienced investor and was recommended to invest into 
funds of medium/adventurous risk profiles which she believes too high a risk for her. She 
would like to be put in the financial position she would have been had she not been given 
inappropriate advice. 
Mrs P complained to Halifax about the advice she had been given. In its final response to 
Mrs Ps complaint it said;
Mrs P was in the position to invest and the advice and level of risk she was exposed 
to was appropriate for her. 
The adviser had collected all Mrs Ps personal and financial circumstances at the 
meeting prior to making the recommendation.
The medium/adventurous risk funds recommended to invest into provided a greater 
choice of diversity within her portfolio. They offered a wide spread of investments 
with the potential for long term growth. 
The key features document Mrs P was given highlighted the aims and risks of the 
plan and was followed by Financial Report after the meeting. 
Mrs P was provided further documentation from the fund manager plus a cooling off 
period. 
Mrs P surrendered her investment in 2008 which was a shorter time frame than was 
intended. The adviser couldnt have been able to predict that decision. 
Remaining unhappy with the outcome Mrs P brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered Mrs Ps complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
Mrs Ps husbands circumstances werent relevant when considering the suitability of 
the investment for Mrs P.
Mrs Ps mother had died 15 years prior to the advice so this point wasnt relevant to 
establish suitability. 
She didnt think Mrs P was an inexperienced investor. Mrs P had held a stocks and 
shares ISA for four years and had £6,000 invested. 
It was recorded that Mrs P wanted capital growth from this investment and to get the 
best from her capital. 
The spread of investments posed more risk, but they were suitable as they provided 
a greater diversity and more potential for growth in the longer term. 
It was recorded that Mrs P wanted a riskier investment at the time of the advice. So, 
the investigator didnt agree the investment was too risky or exposed Mrs Ps capital 
more than necessary. And Halifax had double checked the recommendation was 
suitable for Mrs P.
Mrs P had surrendered her investment in April 2008 for £4,061.66 so she hadnt 
suffered a financial loss. 
Mrs P didnt agree. Whilst it was accepted that Mrs P had some experience of investing, the 
International Growth Fund and the UK Growth Fund exposed her to too much risk for 
someone with her relative inexperience. Mrs P could still have achieved capital growth but 
with less risk. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps circumstances
Halifax has given us a copy of Mrs Ps Customer Information which provides details of her 
circumstances as recorded by Halifaxs representative at the time of the sale.
Mrs P was 52 years of age, married and was employed as a teacher. Mrs P had an 
employee pension scheme and didnt want any investment advice about that. She intended 
to retire at 65 years. Her disposable monthly income after normal monthly outgoings was 
£150.
Mrs P jointly owned her home with her husband, and which was valued at around £150,000 
with an outstanding mortgage of £41,730.89. Mrs P had held an ISA with Halifax for four 
years valued at £6,000 but no other investments were recorded. She had cash available on 
deposit of £12,118.65 which was partly made up of £9,289.57 recorded as being Matured 
Funds. And jointly with her husband Mrs P had a deposit account valued at £7,146.99.
Mrs Ps attitude to risk
Under the attitudes section of the Customer Information document it was recorded that   
Mrs Ps aspiration was You want to make your money work harder for you for your future 
and her need area was recorded as being for capital investment.
Under the attitude to risk section it was recorded that Mrs Ps investment experience was 
pooled &/or single co shares, the Risk to capital was medium/high risk and she was looking to invest for a term of five years or more with potential access to her investment. Her 
attitude to risk Summary Statement was recorded as Medium/Adventurous.
I have considered carefully how this risk level came about and how Halifax made Mrs P 
aware of the varying levels of risk implicit in different investments. Halifax needs to 
demonstrate that it gave suitable advice taking into account Mrs Ps circumstances, 
understanding and knowledge as well as ascertaining her attitude to risk.
Clearly I cant know for sure what was discussed at the meeting Mrs P had with Halifaxs 
representative but from the documentary evidence that is available, Im reasonably satisfied 
that Halifax has been able to show us how it came to the conclusion that Mrs P was a 
Medium/Adventurous risk investor. 
Halifax has been able to give us documentation from the time of the sale which includes 
copies of the fund brochure and key features document for the funds. The Financial Report 
which came about as a result of the meeting does lay out the four levels of risk Halifax 
recognised  from cautious to adventurous. And its highlighted in the Report at what level 
Mrs P was willing to expose her capital. On the balance of probabilities, I think it more likely 
than not that these documents and various levels of risk were discussed as well as what 
funds would be appropriate for an investor willing to take that level of risk. 
Having reviewed the Financial Report I think it gives a good record of what was discussed at 
the meeting. Amongst other points its recorded that Mrs P was an experienced investor and 
she wanted to proceed with the investment recommendation as soon as possible rather than 
have a second meeting. 
The repayment of Mrs Ps mortgage was to run its natural course (rather than Mrs P repay it 
using some of the funds she held) with an endowment policy to repay the mortgage in full 
and if there was a shortfall to use her remaining capital. Rather she wanted to make your 
money work harder for you for your future.
Mrs Ps attitude to risk was assessed after discussion about several factors including Mrs Ps 
experience  You have previously invested in pooled investments and/or single company 
shares. You now want to invest further into stock market-based investments, which is 
consistent with your general approach. Her risk to capital where its recorded Mrs P would 
consider stock market investments with a greater degree of movement up and down or the 
potential of higher returns. And with regard to her risk to return its recorded Mr P would 
accept changes in value both up and down to any investments return. 
A medium/adventurous investor was recorded by Halifax as being;
You are looking for a greater potential return from investments in stocks and shares 
and are will to accept a proportion of your funds being allocated to areas with a 
correspondingly higher degree of risk. This means that the value of the investment is 
more likely to move up and down and by greater amounts. You understand and 
accept on final encashment you may get back less than you invested. 
The investments recommended were recorded as being suitable for Mrs P because they 
offered higher potential returns than deposit based alternatives, which is important to you as 
you want to make your money work harder for you for the future.
I have very carefully considered whether the risk rating of medium/adventurous was right for 
Mrs P. She had a relatively modest monthly disposable income of £150 so Ive looked to see 
if she had the capacity for loss that would be implicit in that risk rating. Mrs P was advised to 
keep some funds back, of which £3,000 was to be based in a deposit account of an ISA Saver Fixed. Plus £4,500 was to be retained for financial emergencies and short term 
planned expenses for which I understand Mr had no identified need. 
Ive also taken into account that Mrs P did have some investment experience as she held an 
ISA valued at £6,000 and which had been invested for four years. And as mentioned above 
£9,289.57 of Mrs Ps available funds were recorded as being from Matured Funds but no 
other detail was given. So, it could have been the case that Mrs P did have some other 
investment experience but clearly, I cant know that. After discussion about the potential for 
regular savings it was recorded that Mrs P preferred to focus on capital investment at this 
point. We may review this matter for you at your next review appointment.
Overall, Im satisfied Mrs Ps attitude to risk was reasonably discussed and established. Its 
not necessarily the case that just because Mrs P might not have taken that level or risk 
before, then she shouldnt take that level of risk with her new investment  which only 
represented £4,000 of the cash she had on deposit  provided she was appropriately 
informed and advised. And I think its clear Mrs P was sufficiently informed so that she was 
capable of making an informed investment decision. 
The advice  was it suitable
While Im satisfied it was most likely the case that Mrs Ps attitude to risk was assessed by 
the adviser, Ive considered whether what was recommended to her was right for her 
recorded circumstances and financial objectives.
Mrs P has said that as a novice investor a medium/adventurous risk investment was too high 
a risk for her. But Ive seen nothing to conclude this was the case. As mentioned above Mrs 
P did have some investment experience and its recorded that Mrs Ps investment objective 
was for the potential of capital growth so it seems likely that Mrs P did want to explore the 
opportunity to make her money grow more than it would do in her bank account or other 
lower risk alternatives. 
The £4,000 was invested with an illustrative term of five years split as follows;
Name of fund % invested Halifaxs risk rating
International Growth Fund 30% Above average risk
UK FTSE All Share Index Tracking Fund 30% Below average risk
UK Growth Fund 20% Below average risk
Fund of Investment Trusts 10% Above average risk
UK Equity Income Fund 10% Below average risk
40% of Mrs Ps cash was to be invested in above average risk as defined by Halifax and 
60% in below average risk. 
As examples of the funds and their risk ratings, Ive reviewed the specific fund information as 
given by Halifax for the largest of the above average risk investment  the International 
Growth Fund  and the largest below average risk investment  UK FTSE All Index Tracking 
Fund. For the International Growth Fund, it says the following;
Investment Objective
This fund aims to achieve capital growth over the long-term by investing in a 
diversified global portfolio.
Investment PolicyThe fund will concentrate the core of the portfolio on large companies while 
maintaining a reasonable presence in medium and small sized company with above-
average potential for growth.
Risk/Return Relationship
The International Growth Fund is an above-average risk fund. This is a widely 
diversified portfolio that is subject to the currency risk associated with the areas of 
investment.
I think this makes clear that the portfolio was widely diversified, and the underlying 
investments held within the fund and its investment policy seems to reasonably reflect the 
risk Mrs P was willing to take. Mrs P wanted capital growth and this fund  amongst the 
others  offered her that opportunity. 
And for the UK FTSE All-Share Index Tracking Fund it said;
Investment Objective
This fund aims to match, as closely as possiblethe capital performance and net 
income yield of the FTSE All-Share Index. 
Investment Policy
The policy is to invest primarily in companies comprising the FTSE All-Share 
Index.
Risk/Return Relationship
The UK All-share Index Tracking Fund is a below-average risk fund. It benefits from 
the significant diversification of investing in a representative selection of the stocks 
comprising the FTSE All-Share index.
Again, this fund is widely diversified  tracked in line with the FTSE All-Share Index, and I 
dont find it to be mismatched to the risk Mrs P was willing to take. And the larger proportion 
of Mrs Ps cash was invested into below average risk funds as rated by Halifax. So, I dont 
find the investments made are out of balance with how a medium/adventurous investor could 
be invested. 
I also note under the validation section of the customer information record  where the 
advisers review and recommendation were checked  two areas were highlighted for 
review. One was that the investments recommended didnt accord with Mrs Ps then current 
assets. And the second was Mrs Ps outstanding mortgage and questioned whether the 
funds should be used to repay that rather than invested. However, as evidenced by what 
was recorded in the resulting Financial Report, I think it most likely both of these points were 
discussed and covered off at the point of the advice being given. 
As Ive said above, Ive concluded I think its more likely Mrs P was given sufficient 
information for her to be aware of the varying levels of risk and potential rewards implicit in 
different types of stock market investments. So, Im satisfied she was reasonably 
experienced and was made aware of the alternatives that were available to her.
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower than medium/adventurous risk 
options available to Mrs P at the time that could have potentially offered her better capital growth returns than savings. But my role isnt to re-visit the advice that she was given and 
what other options were potentially available to her. Rather its to consider whether the 
advice that was given to Mrs P was suitable for her at the time and as identified prior to the 
investment and whether it was sufficiently explained to her. And I am satisfied that it was.
When Mrs P brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, she said she had been 
given the advice to invest too soon after her mothers death. The investigator didnt think her 
mothers death 15 years prior to the investment recommendation would have any impact on 
Mrs Ps ability to make an investment. Mrs P accepted that point, so I make no further 
comment. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont have anything to conclude that the advice given to Mrs P was unsuitable 
for her bearing in mind her personal circumstances, her identified attitude to risk and her 
investment requirements. I follows that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
No doubt Mrs P will be disappointed with my findings, but I hope I have been able to explain 
how and why I have reached
 My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint and make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman