DRN-3879767
The complaint
A company Ill call T has complained that AXIS Specialty Europe SE unfairly declined its 
claim for business interruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mrs M, one of the directors of T, has brought the complaint on its behalf. T is also 
represented in this complaint but for ease, I will refer to T and Mrs M throughout. 
What happened 
In September 2020, T made a claim under its policy with AXIS for business interruption 
losses arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. T provides equipment for hire for large events. 
As a result of the Government restrictions, events could not take place. T also says that one 
booking was at a site that was designated to be used as a temporary morgue, so it was 
denied access to that site. 
AXIS considered the claim under the section of cover which provides cover in the event 
there has been an occurrence of a notifiable human infectious disease at the premises. AXIS 
said there had been no occurrence of Covid-19 at the insured premises, which would be the 
insured business premises listed in the policy schedule and not contract sites; and in any 
case, the closure of any premises would have been the result of the national lockdown and 
not the result of any occurrence at the premises. 
AXIS said it had also considered whether there was cover under a section of the policy 
which covers losses arising from denial of access but said this does not include prevention 
of access due to notifiable diseases. (AXIS referred to denial of access in its 
communications with T and ourselves but whilst the particular clause refers to denial of 
access, it is titled prevention of access. So I will refer to it as prevention of access.) AXIS 
says it would not make sense for the prevention of access clause to cover notifiable 
diseases, as there is additional optional disease cover, which would not be required 
otherwise. AXIS also said the prevention of access cover would only apply to the business 
premises listed in the schedule and none of these were required to close. 
AXIS also reviewed the claim following the Supreme Courts judgment in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) test case. AXIS said this did not change the outcome of Ts claim. 
It maintained that there was no occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises, and even if there 
had been, the losses T suffered were not as a direct result of that but due to nationwide 
restrictions. 
Mrs M brought Ts complaint about this decision to our Service. She made a number of 
submissions in support of the claim. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend it be upheld, as he 
considered AXIS was entitled to refuse the claim. T did not accept the Investigators 
assessment, so the matter was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in December 2020, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had 
such an impact on Ts business. However, I wont be upholding Ts complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which 
might happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each 
policy may provide different cover.
I have considered Ts entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the 
policy provides cover for a number of events. I have considered the parts of that 
section of cover that both parties considered relevant. 
Disease extension 
It isnt clear whether T had this additional extension included in its policy, as this 
optional cover is not listed on its policy schedule. However, for the sake of 
completeness, I have considered whether this clause would provide cover in the 
circumstances of Ts claim if it has been included. 
This part of the policy says: 
ADDITIONAL EXTENSIONS Disease, Infestation and Defective Sanitation 
This insured section is extended to cover: 
(Option A) loss of gross profit 
OR 
(Option B) reduction in revenue and/or increased cost of working 
during the indemnity period caused by restrictions on the use of the premises 
on the order or advice of the local authority as a result of an occurrence at 
the premises of 
c) a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease, excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition, 
Ebola and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). 
In order to find that the claim is covered under this section of cover, I would need to 
find that each part of the term applied: 1. there was restriction on the use of insured 
premises by a local authority; and 2. that it was as a result of an occurrence of a 
notifiable human disease at the premises. 
There is a dispute between AXIS and T about the meaning of premises in the 
policy. I do not intend to make a finding about that, as I do not think I need to in order 
to fairly determine the outcome of the complaint. 
Covid-19 is a notifiable human infectious disease. So for this extension to provide 
cover for Ts claim, the interruption to Ts business would need to be as a result of an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will 
be able to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a 
requirement to demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether 
other evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that 
there was an outbreak of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with 
any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to 
demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers. 
Mrs M says AXIS didnt ask about any occurrence of Covid-19 and it is therefore 
wrong to assume there were no occurrences. However, as mentioned it is for a 
claimant to establish their claim and there has been no suggestion of an occurrence 
of Covid-19 at the storage business premises or any of the sites that T had bookings, 
which led to restrictions. 
The evidence provided to me is that the cancellation of bookings was as a result of 
the Government restrictions about large social events and not due to anyone, at any 
of the premises T thinks should be covered, having Covid-19. 
T has also told us that one of its contract sites was to be used as a morgue from April 
2020, but this appears to have been after the Government made the decision to 
restrict large social gatherings.
I do not therefore consider that it has been established that there was an occurrence 
of Covid-19 at any relevant location. 
In addition, even if there were evidence of an occurrence of Covid-19 at any insured 
location, the clause above requires the restrictions on the use of those locations to be 
on the order or advice of a local authority. I do not think that there was any 
restriction by a local authority. 
In reaching this finding, Ive noted the arbitration decision in Certain Policyholders V 
China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co. Ltd, as it relates to the issues raised in this 
complaint. 
The arbitration process took place between China Taiping and some of their 
policyholders who had legal representation and considered the meaning of a clause 
in a business interruption policy which required closure of insured premises by the 
policy or other competent local authority. The Award made for the arbitration is 
available on China Taipings website 
(https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip) and 
required closure by police or other competent local authority. 
The Award is not binding on T, us or AXIS. But it was made by an independent 
former Supreme Court judge, Lord Mance. So, I think it is a relevant consideration in 
Ts complaint. 
In my opinion, the term local authority in Ts policy, means a localised authority 
rather than a national authority such as the Government. I say this because of the 
inclusion of the word local. In the arbitration process, Lord Mance said that there is 
seemingly no reason for the inclusion of the word local other than to limit the 
relevant authorities to a narrow geographic area. And I am not persuaded to come to 
a different conclusion, given the context of this policy. I consider the natural 
interpretation of the wording would be that it referred to local authorities only. 
I do note that there was a different interpretation of competent local authority when 
the High Court in the FCA test case considered policies from a different insurer - Ecclesiastical Insurance Office PLC. However, in the context of those policies, which 
are significantly different to Ts, the different interpretation makes sense. This is 
because the term was part of an exclusion to a clause which used the wording 
Government Police or Local Authority. So, it made sense that, in the context of that 
term, a competent local authority would include the Government (as well as the 
Police and Local Authorities). However, as Ts policy does not have this (or similar) 
wording, I dont think the same reasoning can apply. 
An insurance contract is interpreted based on the understanding a reasonable 
person, with the background knowledge of the parties to the contract, would have 
had at the time the contract was entered into. And I dont think such a person would 
consider, at the time T entered into its policy, that the term local authority as it is 
used in this policy means the Government. 
It follows that, in my opinion, the term local authority in Ts policy refers to a 
localised authority. In the case of Ts claim, any closure or restrictions on any insured 
premises (such as they were and that has not been established) were put in place by 
the relevant Governments which are national authorities and not local ones. 
I do not therefore think it was unreasonable for the underwriters to refuse the claim 
under this section of cover, as there is no evidence of there having been an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at Ts premises, which resulted in restrictions imposed by a 
local authority. 
Prevention of access extension 
This part of the policy says: 
ADDITIONAL COVERAGE 
1. Prevention of Access 
This insured section is extended to cover loss of gross profit or reduction 
in revenue (depending on which cover is applicable, as shown in the 
schedule) and/or increased cost of working during the indemnity period as 
a result of interference with or interruption to the business caused by 
impaired or denied access to the premises, provided that such impaired or 
denied access is attributable to 
b) the closing down or sealing off of the premises or property in the vicinity 
of the premises in accordance with instructions issued by the Police or 
other competent local authority for reasons other than the condition of the 
premises or the carrying out of repair or maintenance work at the 
premises or the Insureds noncompliance with a prior order of the Police 
or other competent local authority.
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to find that each part of the term 
applied: 
1. There was impaired or denied access to the premises. 
2. That closure/restriction was due to the order or advice of the police, or 
other competent local authority.
Again, I intend to leave to one side the dispute about what would amount to 
premises under the policy, as I do not think I need to determine this point in order to 
fairly decide whether the claim should be met under this section of cover. AXIS says this section would not include closure for notifiable diseases, given the 
separate clause covering this. I dont agree that this is a reasonable interpretation. 
The disease section of cover provides for restriction of use, as well as inability to 
access, so the cover is different; and if AXIS wanted to exclude notifiable diseases 
from this section of cover, it could have stated that. 
However, despite this I cant fairly conclude that the closure was due to the order or 
advice of the police or a competent local authority. 
I do not consider that the interruption to Ts business was due to T being prevented 
from accessing any premises. 
T was a non-essential service, however not all businesses were required to close by 
the Government in March 2020. The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) 
(England) Regulations 2020 set out which businesses were required to close. They 
included a list of the businesses that had to close and hire firms such as T were not 
on this list. 
The regulations also required people to remain at home, unless they had a 
reasonable excuse. The regulations contained a non-exhaustive list of such excuses, 
and this specifically included traveling for the purposes of work. I am not aware of 
any such instruction, other than those contained in the regulations mentioned above, 
that imposed a relevant restriction on T directly. 
And access to Ts own buildings (i.e. storage facilities) was not impaired or denied, 
as far as I am aware.
While I have not made any finding on whether the contract sites would fall within the 
policy cover as premises Ive also considered whether this would apply to these 
locations as well. 
In the email from Ts client dated 21 April 2020, cancelling the contract for the site 
that was to be used as a morgue, the client suggested they might put on the show at 
a different venue but said it would be smaller and with fewer performances, given the 
economic climate. In my opinion, the proximate cause of Ts loss was the 
cancellation of the booking, due to the ban on public gatherings introduced in Ireland 
on 27 March 2020, economic climate and the ability of the client to put on the event 
theyd planned, rather than that T was prevented from accessing that site. 
It seems to me therefore that the interruption to Ts business was not due to any 
impairment to the use of those sites (by the Government, police or local authority). 
Any such prevention of access or impairment of use of those addresses did not 
directly prevent T from carrying on its business of hiring out equipment. Rather it is 
Ts customers that have cancelled their bookings with T, as a result of the restrictions 
on social gatherings. This is not however, covered under the policy. 
In addition, even if I am wrong about this, the policy requires the hindrance or denial 
of access to be the result of the closing down or sealing off of the premises or 
property in the vicinity of the premises in accordance with instructions issued by the 
Police or other competent local authority and I do not think any restrictions on the 
locations referred to were as a result of police or local authority action. 
The arbitration decision in Certain Policyholders V China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co. 
Ltd, mentioned above is relevant here too. For the reasons given earlier in this decision, in my opinion, the term competent local authority means a localised 
authority rather than a national authority such as the Government. 
The interruption to Ts business was the result of restrictions imposed by the relevant 
Governments, which are national authorities. 
I also do not think that any of the addresses used by T were closed by the police. 
Mrs M has said that the police and fire service have to sign off any site but I dont 
think this is the same as the police closing down or sealing off any location to deny or 
impair T from accessing them. 
In the case of Ts claim, there was no closure or restrictions of relevant premises 
and, even if there were, they were put in place by the Government which is a national 
authority and not a local one. Therefore AXIS was entitled to decline Ts claim under 
this section of cover.
I confirmed that, for the reasons set out above, I did not intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further evidence or 
arguments they want considered.  
AXIS did not respond. T did respond and does not accept my provisional decision. It has 
made a number of points in response. I have considered everything it has said and have 
summarized its main points below: 
There was inevitably an occurrence of Covid-19 at the site designated to be used as 
a morgue, as there would be risk of contamination from Covid-19 in bodies taken 
there. 
I said the occurrence of Covid-19 would need to be prior to closure of the site but the 
policy doesnt require closure but instead relates to loss caused by restrictions on the 
use of the premises and does not require this to be prior in time. As a result of just 
means it has to be caused by something else and does not require the causation to 
predate the outcome. If the future occurrence of an event is considered to be 
inevitable then that future occurrence can be considered to be the cause of the 
restriction. 
The pantomime did go ahead on another site, which was too small for Ts equipment. 
So if the original contract site had not been closed to be used as a morgue, it is 
reasonable to conclude that it would have gone ahead on this site. The organisers of 
the event said in their email that they could not have a family event such as this on a 
previous morgue site, as it would be inappropriate. Clearly this means the proximate 
cause of the loss of this business was that T was prevented from accessing the site 
due to occurrence of Covid-19 at that site.  
While the requirements for all pubs and other such venues to close were national 
ones, the situation is different here as this was a specific venue that was required to 
close. 
The words local authority in the policy did not have capital letters, so it did not have 
to be The Local Authority making the decision to close the site, rather it can 
reasonably be interpreted as being a relevant nearby official governing body making 
a local decision to close a specific premises. 
It does not think there is a dispute about the premises that would be covered under 
the policy.  
T suffered a huge financial loss and is only seeking recovery of a small proportion of 
that. 
The intention of this policy is to provide cover in exactly these circumstances. But at worst the coverage is contentious due to unclear policy wording, so the contra 
proferentum rule should apply, meaning that the policy wording should be interpreted 
in Ts favour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence again, including the arguments T has made in response 
to my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change my provisional findings. I will 
address the points raised by T in response to my provisional decision below. 
Premises covered under the policy 
T says it was not aware that AXIS disputed the premises but AXISs final response letter 
dealing with the morgue site makes clear it covered the business premises set out in the 
insurance schedule only. The contract sites were not listed on the insurance schedule and 
AXIS said there was no denial of access to the business premises listed in the schedule.
In any case, I provisionally decided I did not need to determine whether the contract sites 
would be included in the premises covered under the policy in order to fairly decide this 
complaint and I remain of that view.  
T has not provided any further information or evidence about any premises, other than the 
site that was taken over to be used as a morgue. I will therefore only refer to that site. 
Disease extension
I mentioned closure of the site in my provisional decision because that is what happened in 
this case at the morgue site but I also made it clear this policy term requires only restriction 
on the use of the site. This makes no difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
T says the occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises would not have to precede the restriction 
on the use of the premises in order for cover to be triggered under this section of cover.  
I can see some force in Ts argument that where an event is inevitable, and also perhaps 
imminent, it might in some circumstances be reasonable to consider it to be the cause of an 
insured event that comes later in time. However, I do not agree that this is a fair and 
reasonable interpretation of the policy terms in this case. The policy covers losses caused by 
restrictions on the use of the premise as a result of the occurrence of disease at the 
premises. I think this implies that the events be a sequential in time and the chain of 
causation would in my opinion reasonably require the cause of the insured event (i.e. the 
occurrence of the disease) to have happened before the insured event (i.e. the restriction on 
the use of the premises). And there is no evidence that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 
at the site before the decision to restrict its use. 
T also says the decision to use this particular site as a morgue would have been a more 
local one. T has not provided any evidence that the decision to use the site as a morgue was 
by a local authority, rather than a national one. News reports I have seen refer to the 
designation of this, and another site in Ireland for use as morgues, being part of the States 
emergency response to Covid-19. It seems to me more likely than not, it was a decision 
made by a central authority, even if it applied to a specific site, rather than applying 
nationally. Additionally, as stated above, regardless of which body made the decision to use the site as a morgue, that decision would need to have been due to the occurrence of Covid-
19 at the site prior to that decision. 
T also says that the policy terms are unclear but I do not agree. While there has been debate 
about the application of the term, for instance about the meaning of a local authority, I do 
not think that this means the term is so unclear or ambiguous that AXIS is not entitled to rely 
on it.
Having considered all the evidence again and Ts recent comments, I remain of the opinion 
that it was not unreasonable for AXIS to refuse the claim under this section of the policy. 
Prevention of access extension
This section of cover requires that access to the insured premises be impaired or denied  
due to the closing down or sealing off of the premises. Again, I think this term is sufficiently 
clear and unambiguous, and AXIS is therefore entitled to rely on it.  Also, the term requires 
the prevention of access to be by order of the Police or other competent local authority. For 
the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I do not consider it has been 
established that any prevention of access was the result of a local authority decision, rather 
than a national or central authority, or by order of the Police. 
In addition, in relation to both sections of cover, I remain of the opinion that the proximate 
cause of Ts losses was the cancellation of the contract by the client. The client was able to 
find another site to put on the pantomime. While it might have gone ahead on the original 
site, if it had not been used as a morgue, this is not certain. I note for instance that the 
clients said that due to the economic climate it was likely it would have to put on a smaller 
event, with fewer performances in any case. So, they might have changed venue or 
cancelled the contract anyway. None of this is certain but for there to be policy cover it has 
to be that T be prevented from carrying on its business at the site and I dont think it was. 
The loss was caused due to restrictions on its clients activities and that is not covered under 
the policy.
I therefore remain of the opinion that AXIS was entitled to refuse cover under this section of 
the policy as well. 
I have also considered the rest of the policy, but am not persuaded that any clause provides 
cover for the circumstances of Ts claim. As such, I do not consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to require AXIS to meet Ts claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman