DRN-4435227
The complaint
Mr A complains about the difficulties he had in relation to his membership of a private dental 
plan with BUPA Insurance Limited.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr A and his son had the benefit of a group private dental plan 
via Mr As employer. In June 2023, Mr A called BUPA about continuing his cover with a 
personal policy. His first call to BUPA was disconnected before he spoke to someone. 
When he phoned BUPA a second time, his call was disconnected mid-conversation. 
BUPA didnt call Mr A back. 
Mr A complained to BUPA. In response to Mr As complaint, BUPA apologised for the 
service issues, paid him compensation of £100 in relation to his inconvenience, 
promised a call back from its sales team within two days and gave him its phone 
number. BUPA didnt phone Mr A back and when Mr A contacted BUPA again he 
discovered that it was closed. Mr A pursued his complaint. 
Mr A complains about the poor service hes received which he says left him anxious 
about his cover and caused him significant mental and emotional distress. He says that 
he has health challenges and that this has intensified his feelings of anxiety, frustration 
and mistrust. Mr A says that he was left uncertain about his cover so was hesitant to 
seek dental care. Mr A says that BUPAs actions could have resulted in a lapse of cover 
and that hes had to cancel several scheduled appointments. 
Mr A wants continuous cover, compensation for his distress and inconvenience, 
assurances about service and personalised support. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that BUPA had 
acknowledged Mr As concerns, apologised and paid him compensation. The 
investigator thought that the compensation BUPA had already paid Mr A was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the investigator hadnt addressed 
sufficiently certain aspects of his complaint. Mr A said that BUPA had provided 
inconsistent service which had caused him more than mere annoyance. He said that 
without more information or assurances about internal action and preventative 
measures, its difficult to ascertain the sincerity and efficacy of those measures. 
Mr A reiterated that he doesnt think that compensation of £100 is sufficient in his case. 
He said that he wants information about future service. Mr A said that adequate 
compensation should reflect his inconvenience and respect for his time and for the 
principle of providing reliable service. 
The investigator thought about what Mr A said but didnt change her view. Mr A asked 
that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr A has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support his complaint, which I have read and considered. Im conscious that I 
havent set out above all that Mr A has said. That reflects our service that, wherever 
possible, aims to be informal. Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. 
I trust that Mr A wont take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the 
central issue, that is whether the steps BUPA has already taken are fair and reasonable in 
this case. 
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct BUPA generally about how it conducts its 
business or direct it to give Mr A information about internal action, preventative measures or 
future service. But we can look at the effect of BUPAs errors on Mr A in this case. 
It's not in dispute that Mr As first phone call to BUPA was disconnected before he spoke 
with someone, his second call was disconnected mid-conversation and that BUPA didnt 
return his call. BUPA has acknowledged this failure in service. 
Its unfortunate that the phone call promised in BUPAs final response to Mr A didnt occur. 
BUPA gave Mr A an alternative number to call. I appreciate that Mr A called that number 
when the office was closed but I think BUPA did enough to try to ensure that Mr A could 
access the service he needed. So, I dont think that BUPA is responsible for any disruption 
in Mr As dental treatment. 
I understand from Mr As response to the investigators view that he still wants to talk to 
BUPA about dental cover. I think that its open to Mr A to contact BUPA on the phone 
number its provided during office hours, if he wishes to do so.  
Ive thought carefully about whats fair and reasonable in this case. In considering 
compensation, Ive taken into account what Mr A has said and considered the nature, 
extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by BUPAs errors.
In this sort of case, we might ordinarily conclude that an apology is sufficient. But Mr A has 
provided details of his personal circumstances which lead me to conclude that more than 
an apology is required for a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. Considering 
everything, I think that BUPAs payment of compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable.  
In reaching that view, Ive noted that BUPA took steps to put matters right within a 
reasonable time and set out a way for Mr A to progress matters. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I dont uphold his complaint as I think that the steps BUPA 
has already taken, including the payment of compensation, are fair and reasonable in this 
case.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Louise PoveyOmbudsman