DRN-3908182
The complaint
Mr M complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) poorly processed the 
transfer of his previous self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to an SJP retirement account. 
He explains that this caused his pension fund to be disinvested for an unreasonable amount 
of time causing him to suffer investment losses. 
What happened
In late 2018 Mr M received financial advice from SJP regarding the transfer of an existing 
SIPP to an SJP SIPP.
On 25 April 2019 SJP emailed Mr Ms previous SIPP provider, Firm A, to request key 
information about that SIPP. SJP explain that it sent further requests to Firm A on 
1 May 2019 and 15 May 2019 asking for that information.
In the meantime, SJP sent a request to Firm A, on 29 April 2019, to disinvest all funds held 
in Mr Ms SIPP. The majority of funds held in Mr Ms SIPP were already SJP investments. 
And on 7 May 2019 SJP received an instruction from Firm A to disinvest Mr Ms holdings in 
the SJP funds. SJP completed the sale of Mr Ms existing investments and sent the cash to 
the Firm A SIPP by BACS on 13 May 2019.
On 28 May 2019 SJP provided Mr M with a recommendation report. It explained that it was 
confirming its recommendation of November 2018. And outlined details of the recommended 
switch. 
On 4 June 2019 SJP sent a transfer request, via the Origo platform, to Firm A. 
Firm A then sent a query to SJP for information. Which delayed Firm A completing the Origo 
transfer request. Firm A later acknowledged that it was already in possession of the 
information it sought from SJP. So Firm A accepted responsibility for the delay in processing 
the Origo transfer request. It accepted that it could have transferred the funds for investment 
by 11 June 2019, but for its mistake. And offered Mr M compensation for that delay which 
was accepted. 
Mr Ms transfer actually went ahead on 1 July 2019 with the funds being re-invested on 
2 July 2019.
Mr M complained to SJP about the delays it caused and the impact of that. SJP looked into 
Mr Ms complaint and issued two responses. The first acknowledged that it could have done 
more to facilitate the transfer and thought that it believed that the transfer could have gone 
ahead by 17 June 2019. And calculated that Mr M would have had investment growth of 
£11,591 if his fund had been re-invested at the earlier date. Its subsequent response offered 
to compensate Mr M for the SIPP fee that had become due with Firm A, which could have 
been avoided if the transfer had occurred sooner.
Our investigator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. But disagreed with the way 
that SJP proposed putting things right. SJP didnt agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator. But did still agree that it should compensate Mr M to ensure that he was not 
disadvantaged by the time the transfer had taken. It made a further offer. but that wasnt 
accepted by Mr M.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that I was upholding Mr Ms complaint 
and what I thought SJP should do to put things right. SJP acknowledged and accepted what 
Id said in that provisional decision. 
Mr M responded to let me know that he disagreed with what Id said. In essence he didnt 
agree with my suggestion that SJP should only compensate for the losses up until the point 
that Firm A had accepted responsibility. Mr M thought that SJP should compensate him from 
the point that the reinvestment of his pension should have happened until 2 July 2019, less 
the amount of compensation hes already received from Firm A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the argument that Mr M has raised and have fully considered the 
circumstances again. But my final decision is the same as I reached in my provisional 
decision. Im upholding Mr Ms complaint because Ive identified a failing on the part of SJP 
that Ill explain in what follows. Having identified something that I think SJP have done 
wrong, I have to consider the impact of that mistake on Mr M. It isnt fair or reasonable to 
hold SJP to account for the impact of any mistake made by Firm A.
SJP were responsible for advising Mr M to transfer from Firm A. And I need to consider 
whether its actions were fair and reasonable. Mr M explains that he understood that the 
transfer would cause his pension fund to be disinvested for a short period to facilitate the 
cash transfer. Which I think was fair. But Ive considered whether the way that the transfer 
was handled caused Mr Ms funds to be out of the market for an unnecessary amount of 
time. And, as Ill explain, I think that they were.
SJP instructed Firm A to disinvest all the funds in the SIPP on 29 April 2019. Ive asked SJP 
about this. Its explained that this request was made in the expectation that the 
recommendation and transfer request would follow soon after. In effect, I think that the 
adviser was assuming that the recommendation would ultimately be to transfer and that 
Mr M would accept it. But the adviser wasnt in possession of key information from Firm A. 
And couldnt know how long it might take to receive that. 
This means that SJP ought to have known that it was not yet in a position to recommend or 
to request the transfer when it requested that the funds were disinvested. It had requested 
information from Firm A on 25 April 2019. Which was only two working days earlier. Without 
a response, SJP simply wasnt in a position to finalise the advice to Mr M. And Mr M hadnt 
yet received a written recommendation from SJP. So couldnt reasonably have decided to 
proceed. 
It appears that SJP didnt receive the answers it sought from Firm A until 20 May 2019. I 
understand that SJP werent responsible for the time it took Firm A to provide that 
information. The transfer recommendation appears to have been submitted for SJPs internal 
compliance approval on 20 May 2019. Which meant that the written recommendation that 
SJP needed to provide to Mr M wasnt generated until 28 May 2019. 
Notwithstanding that I dont think that SJP are to blame for the fact that its written 
recommendation took longer to provide than it intended, that delay wouldnt have impacted Mr M if his funds werent disinvested so long in advance. I dont accept that the 
disinvestment was to preserve the value ahead of the transfer. The funds were, after all, 
immediately re-invested with SJP following the switch.
I have to conclude that SJP simply requested the disinvestment on Mr Ms SIPP earlier than 
it should have. It recommended this course of action to Mr M in preparation for a pension 
switch that had not yet been completely agreed. I dont think this was reasonable. The 
consequence of SJPs actions here, was that Mr Ms SIPP was disinvested too far in 
advance of the request to transfer. Which means that SJP are responsible for any losses 
that Mr Ms fund might have suffered by being out of the market during that time.
Putting things right
I cant know exactly what would have happened had things run more smoothly for this 
transfer. But I think that this is a fair way to put Mr M as close to the position he would have 
been in if SJP hadnt advised him to disinvest his pension so early. 
Firm A didnt receive the Origo transfer request until 4 June 2019. Firm A accepted 
responsibility for the fact that the transfer hadnt completed by 11 June 2019. And Mr M has 
accepted Firm As offer of compensation for the delay from 11 June 2019 until the transfer 
completion of 1 July 2019. If it was Firm As fault that the transfer didnt happen by 11 June 
2019 then it isnt reasonable for me to ask SJP to compensate Mr M for that same loss again 
in this case. But SJP should compensate Mr M for any investment loss he may have 
suffered for the unreasonable time his pension was out of the market before SJP was able 
to request the transfer for him.
To determine if Mr M suffered a loss, SJP should calculate the notional investment returns 
that his fund would have received between from the point at which the funds were 
disinvested (recorded on his SIPP statement with Firm A) until 11 June 2019 (the point 
beyond which Firm A have taken responsibility for any losses) if theyd remained invested in 
the Firm A SIPP.
If this calculation shows that Mr Ms fund ought to have experienced fund growth in that 
period, then that would be the loss in his funds value on 11 June 2019. It means that the 
transferred amount would have been higher. This loss would also have been subject to fund 
growth. I think that the fairest way to allow for this is for SJP to increase that loss by the 
notional gains on that loss had it then been invested in line with its recommended investment 
strategy, from 11 June until the date of my final decision. This will represent Mr Ms total loss 
to the date of my final decision, and is the compensation that SJP should pay Mr M.
If SJP is unable to calculate a notional loss as suggested above, it should instead use this 
benchmark: for half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; 
for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds.
Why is this benchmark suitable?
Ive chosen this method of calculating potential investment returns because:
Mr M wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that Mr M would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid  at Mr Ms marginal rate  assumed 
to be 20%.
At the time that SJP gave Mr M advice, Mr Ms fund had been partially crystallised. SJPs 
recommendation on 28 May 2019 indicated that around 60% was crystallised. So 60% of the 
compensation can be reduced by 20% to allow for the effect of tax. 40% of Mr Ms fund was 
uncrystallised. Meaning 25% of that could have been taken as a tax free lump sum. So the 
other 40% of the compensation can be reduced by 15% to allow for the effect of tax on that 
part.
Ive considered the inconvenience caused by the initial issue and the ongoing trouble in 
putting things right. Mr M has been taking pension through a drawdown. And, whilst this 
issue will have impacted the underlying value of his residual pension for a number of years, 
it doesnt appear that it will have impacted his income drawdown. Which was being managed 
to ensure that he remained within the basic rate tax threshold. So hes suffered no impact in 
his available income, nor was he likely concerned that it would in the medium term either. 
SJP have acknowledged that Mr M was caused inconvenience and agreed that a figure of 
£500 in compensation for that was fair. And I agree that is fair and, in addition to 
compensating for any loss, SJP should pay £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
Mr M was caused.
I also think it will be fair to ask SJP to pay the compensation within 60 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc must compensate Mr M in the manner that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman