DRN-1715311
The complaint
Mr H has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out the PPI in 1999 at the same time as applying for the credit card by filling out a 
form. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt give his permission for PPI to be added to his credit card account, 
meaning it was added without his knowledge or consent.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs recollection of events 
has faded. Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs application form. There is a separate section for PPI 
and Mr H has signed and dated the box in that section to request PPI. I think that Mr H 
would have known from the wording and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. Ive 
thought very carefully about what Mr H has said. But on balance, I consider it more likely 
than not that he would have known that he had a choice about taking out the PPI. It seems 
to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
RBS didnt advise Mr H to buy the PPI, so it didnt have to ensure that the policy met Mr Hs 
needs. But it did need to provide enough information for Mr H to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr Hs employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if he was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially 
for longer than Mr H would have received full pay for. Mr H says that he had some savings. 
But having the policy would have meant that he could retain any savings or used them to 
cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So I think he had a need for 
the policy and could have benefitted from it if hed been unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Its possible that RBS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mr H had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as 
a result of anything RBS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that RBS needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman