DRN-3882972
The complaint
Mr C has complained about charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr C acquired a new car under a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in July 2017. In July 
2020 he decided to hand it back. MBFS arranged for the car to be inspected on 27 July 2020 
and it said he owed £340  made up of four charges of £85 for damage on each of the 
wheels. 
Mr C was unhappy because he said hed received various emails regarding MBFSs vehicle 
return standards and that hed tried to contact MBFS before handing the car back to see if 
anything needed to be fixed. But he said, due to the impact on MBFS of Covid-19, he was 
only able to be directed to the team that books the collection. Mr C also says he spoke to the 
agent who inspected the car who said less than 20% of the wheel was damaged so Mr C 
should appeal any charges. Mr C complained to MBFS about the charge and said its call 
handler agreed with him about the rear wheels, but he was later told all charges were valid. 
MBFS sent a final response not upholding the complaint. Mr C is unhappy because he says 
less than 20% of the wheel was damaged so he doesnt think he should be charged. He 
doesnt think the damage was measured properly.
Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and one of our investigators looked 
into things. Initially the investigator only thought the damage on the front wheels should be 
chargeable, but after receiving further photos he thought all charges had been applied fairly. 
He noted MBFSs vehicle return standards said damage over 25mm wasnt acceptable. And 
he thought all four wheels had damage over 25mm.
Mr C didnt agree. He reiterated over 20% of the wheel wasnt damaged. He also reiterated 
he was given incorrect information over the phone about the charges for the rear wheels. 
Our investigator had another look into things. He wasnt able to obtain evidence such as the 
call recording from MBFS but overall, he didnt think there was enough evidence to change 
his opinion. Mr C still didnt agree. He didnt think the vehicle return standards were set out 
very clearly. And he thought it was unfair the investigator couldnt hold MBFS responsible for 
providing wrong information. Mr C also says he wasnt given the vehicle return standards 
when he took out the agreement. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C acquired the car using a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Damage charges
The car was new when it was supplied to Mr C, so I think its reasonable to assume it was 
supplied free from even minor defects. Therefore, any damage that was on the car when it 
was returned wouldve likely happened during the time it was with Mr C. 
Ive thought about what MBFSs vehicle return standards say for wheels. Under what is 
acceptable, it says:
Minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel 
face. 
Under what is unacceptable it says:
Scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm.
I note the vehicle return standards are also set out within the hire purchase agreement itself. 
The agreement sets out that when the car is returned it must be in line with the vehicle return 
standards. And it also says if the vehicle has not been returned within those standards 
MBFS is able to charge costs for either repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation. 
As a starting point, Im satisfied that by signing the agreement, Mr C agreed to the terms. 
The vehicle return standards are set out within the agreement. And I dont find MBFS is 
acting unfairly by applying charges for damage that falls outside of those standards. 
Ive gone on to think about whether or not the damage to the wheels falls outside of MBFSs 
vehicle return standards. 
The photos from the independent report could be clearer. The photo of the right-hand rear 
wheel is too blurry to see the damage clearly. The photo of the left-hand rear wheel has not 
been taken from the best angle to show the damage. And theres no close-up pictures of the 
damage, or rulers used next to the damage to show the length. 
I can see damage on the front wheels. The damage is particularly evident on the right-hand 
front wheel. But again, the clarity could have been better. And it wouldve been helpful if the 
inspector had taken a close-up with a ruler next to the damage. 
The photos Mr C has provided us are of higher quality. Theyre clearer and have a better 
resolution. And the clarity is still there even when zooming in slightly. Mr C took the photos 
when the car was still in his possession, which is helpful. Im satisfied both front wheels 
clearly show damage that is well over 25mm. Even without a ruler I think this doesnt seem 
to be in dispute.  
Ive looked closely at the photos of the rear wheels. Theyre not damaged as much as the 
front. But after carefully considering the photos, I think they also show theres damage over 
25mm on both wheels. One wheel is more damaged than the other. But bearing in mind 
25mm is only around the size of a paperclip, Im satisfied the damage on both wheels falls 
outside of MBFSs return standards. And that I can make that finding even without a ruler 
being held up next to the damaged areas. The damage Ive seen on all the wheels is 
consistent with what happens when they make contact with a kerb. 
MBFS also supplied further photos of the rear wheels. Which, again, arent great quality. And 
its not clear they were taken during the collection inspection. But taking into account what 
Ive set out above, I dont require those photos to reach a conclusion. 
Mr C has referred to the damage on the wheels being less than 20%. And I can see the 
collection agents report refers to Under 2mm deep over 20% rim or on spoke. So I can understand why theres some confusion here given thats not what MBFS has considered. 
We asked MBFS about this, and it explained this is how the collection agents categorised 
wheel damage on their own inspection reports that year. But it highlighted this isnt what the 
agreement or vehicle return standards set out. While I agree its added some confusion, and 
I also think MBFS should have explained things more clearly in its final response letter, I 
think the terms set out in the agreement Mr C entered into is the fairest measure of what are 
acceptable levels of damage. So I place most weight on the vehicle return standards. 
To summarise, Ive found the damage on all the wheels is outside of MBFSs return 
standards. I also think the £85 charge isnt unreasonable for each wheel. So I dont find 
MBFS is acting unreasonably by charging Mr C £340. Whats left to decide is whether MBFS 
needs to take any action in relation to the way its handled things generally. 
Service issues
Mr C has said hes unhappy he wasnt given a copy of the vehicle return standards sooner. 
But in his complaint form hes referred to receiving an email about the vehicle return 
standards prior to handing the car back. And hes also signed an agreement that includes 
the vehicle return standards. So I think he was made adequately aware of them.
Ive also thought about what Mr C has said about the general service he received from 
MBFS. He says he tried to clarify what might need repairing before handing the car back. 
Ive not got much more detail than that. Im mindful that MBFSs service levels may have 
been affected when Mr C handed his car back in July 2020 because this was around the 
time firms were having to implement new ways of working at short notice due to the impact 
of Covid-19. But it looks like there werent delays in the hand-back of the car. And while I 
appreciate Mr C says he wanted to find out what needed repairing so he could take steps 
before handing the car back, I do have to consider what Ive said above in that he was 
notified of what was and wasnt acceptable when he was sent the vehicle return standards 
and when he signed the agreement. 
Ive finally thought about what Mr C said about the misinformation he received. I can imagine 
it would have been disappointing to have been told on the one hand that he wouldnt be 
charged for damage to the rear wheels, only to find out later that he was. MBFS havent said 
thats what happened. It said it spoke to Mr C and told him it would look into things further, 
which is what led it to seeking further evidence from the collection agents. So the evidence is 
conflicting. Its disappointing MBFS hasnt been able to provide us the relevant call 
recording, despite it saying it was listened to when investigating the complaint. But that in 
itself isnt enough for me to direct MBFS to pay compensation. 
Summary
All things considered, I do sympathise with Mr C. It looks like, on the whole, he looked after 
the car during the three years he had it. But for the reasons given above, I find the car was 
handed back with damage that fell outside of MBFSs return standards. And I consider the 
charges applied fair. I think this is the main issue Mr C wanted us to look into, but Ive also 
thought about the service failings he said happened. Theres conflicting information here. 
And without further evidence, while I know itll disappoint Mr C, on balance, I dont find I have 
the grounds to direct MBFS to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman