DRN-2961396
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) wont 
refund him for transactions he says he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr S legitimately uses a gambling website Ill refer to as S and he has no complaint about 
transactions to that company. But in November 2020 he noticed similar payments going to a  
company he didnt recognise, which Ill call B. S and B have very similar names and almost 
seems as though they could be the same company. But they are actually separate entities. 
Mr S called Cashplus when he noticed the transactions and said he didnt recognise them. 
He confirmed to Cashplus that he did spend with S but had never opened an account or 
gambled with B.
Cashplus investigated the transactions but declined to refund them. It believed Mr S had 
carried out the transactions himself. Within its reasoning it said:
Mr S had used similar merchants many times before;
Mr S had called Cashplus to ask about credits from B;
Mr S was logged into his online service area while the transactions were happening;
MasterCard 3DS was used to auhtorise the transactions, which would have required 
Mr Ss password.
Cashplus then decided to close Mr S account and sent him 60 day closure notice.
Mr S didnt agree with Cashplus findings. He said hed never disputed payments to or from 
B, only S. He reiterated hed never used B or tried to claim credits from it. He brought the 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He acknowledged that 
Cashplus had been incorrect when it said Mr S had asked about debits and credits involving 
B. But he thought there was evidence to show that Mr S had more likely than not authorised 
the payments to B. He said:
it seemed unlikely an unknown third party had obtained Mr S card details only to use 
them for gambling transactions and nothing else;
whoever carried out the transactions would have needed Mr S security information to 
get through the 3DS process;
B provided Cashplus with the information it had on its account holder and it all 
matched Mr S genuine details (including phone number, email address and postal 
address), meaning anything B sent would have gone to Mr S;
similar payment amounts were made to both B and S; and
Cashplus closed the account in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr S didnt accept the outcome and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. I wont be telling Cashplus it needs to do anything differently.
The considerations that are particularly relevant to this case are set out in the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017. They say, in summary, that a customer can only be held 
responsible for transactions that they have made themselves or otherwise authorised. And 
so I must consider whether its more likely than not, based on the available evidence and on 
the balance of probabilities, Mr S did authorise the payments and should therefore be 
responsible for them.
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that Mr S correct card details were used and that, for 
some of the payments made, the MasterCard 3DS process was completed.  That tells me 
that the transactions were properly authenticated and applied to Mr S account. But that 
information in isolation doesnt answer the question of whether he consented to the 
payments.
There is more to be said about the 3DS process here that does support Cashplus position 
that Mr S did consent to the payments. Thats because completing the process would have 
required access to Mr S 3DS password and also his registered mobile phone. Both are 
required when a payment is authorised through the 3DS system. 
Ive seen evidence which persuaded me that the 3DS process was completed for 
transactions to B. So that means someone was making a payment and had to use Mr S 
password and phone to confirm the transaction. That happened on 14 November 2020. 
Mr S has presented no explanation for how someone might have known his password or had 
access to his phone. And its difficult to see how such a situation would arise. And so it 
seems more likely than not it was Mr S that completed the process.
I believe its worth noting here that Mr S called Cashplus that same day  
14 November 2020  to reset his 3DS so he could transact on his account. And so it seems 
he was aware of the process and how it worked. 
Mr S has also said that no one had access to his card. Hes said it was always on his 
person, in his wallet, as he worked away. And so no one had access to it. There doesnt 
seem to be a point of compromise for his card details. Im not suggesting its impossible for 
someone to have obtained them without him knowing. But there doesnt seem to be an 
obvious opportunity for someone to have done so. Particularly considering theyd also need 
to have known his full address, date of birth, phone number, email address ad home 
address. All of those details were used for the account with B and Im not persuaded it was 
someone other than Mr S that created that account.
The information provided by B also supports the position that it was Mr S that carried out the transactions. Ive already confirmed that all of the personal information matched. But it also 
seems that the same card was used without dispute on other accounts held within the same 
larger group of companies of which B is a part. And the account itself had been set up since 
2018, which doesnt tie up with the possibility of an opportunistic fraudster obtaining and 
using Mr S details.
I can see that some of the disputed transactions with B take place at a very similar time as 
genuine ones with S. As an example, on 14 November 2020, there is a genuine transaction 
with S at 22:10. That is right in-between two disputed payments to B at 22:01 and 22:22. It 
seems unusual to me that an unknown fraudster would be gambling in a very similar way to 
how Mr S genuinely was at almost exactly the same time. It seems more likely that Mr S was 
using to two different sites intermittently. A similar pattern can be seen on both 15 and 
16 November 2020 as well, the only other days Mr S highlighted disputed payments.
With all of the above in mind I believe it is more likely than not Mr S carried out the disputed 
transactions himself. There doesnt appear to be a reasonable explanation for how someone 
else would have been able to complete the transactions without Mr S authority. And so I 
wont tell Cashplus that it needs to refund them. 
Our investigator explained that he thought Cashplus actions in closing Mr S account were 
fair and reasonable and he referred to the terms and conditions of the account. Mr S doesnt 
seem to have disagreed with the reasoning there and so the matter doesnt really seem to 
be in dispute. But, for the sake of completeness, Ill say that I believe Cashplus acted fairly 
and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman