DRN-3916678
The complaint
Mr B and Miss L complain about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) who declined their claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B and Miss L noticed some paint bubbling on a wall in their home. They said that 
following this they redecorated the room where the paint was bubbling. Sometime later, Miss 
L noticed that a patch had formed on the wall, and she contacted Aviva. 
It sent an engineer to carry out a trace and access. He gained access by removing some of 
the wall and discovered mould inside and a leak. 
Aviva later contacted Mr B and Miss L to carry out a desk assessment. During the 
assessment they were asked when they first noticed an issue with the wall, and they told the 
assessor that it was in the summer of 2021. 
Aviva considered Mr B and Miss Ls comments but later declined their claim, relying on two 
policy exclusions namely that the damage had been gradually occurring and that Mr B and 
Miss L had a duty to prevent loss. 
Unhappy with Avivas decision, Mr B and Miss L referred a complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Her view was 
that it wasnt reasonable for Mr B and Miss L to have known that the damage to the wall was 
due to a leak. She felt that they acted as soon as they had become reasonably aware of the 
damage. And as such, she recommended that Aviva reconsider the claim under the 
remaining policy terms. 
Mr B and Miss L accepted the view. Aviva did not. It said that it thought the customers hadnt 
carried out even a cursory investigation of what caused the bubbling on the wall. And 
because of this they hadnt taken action to mitigate the damage and hadnt complied with 
policy terms and conditions. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 16 January 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
13 February 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr B and Miss L, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think 
this is fair. 
Mr B and Miss L held a home insurance policy with Aviva. Aviva in its final response, 
declined their claim on the basis of two policy exclusions. The first being that it will not cover 
any claims in which there was gradually occurring damage:
Gradually occurring damage  wear and tear (natural and predictable damage which 
happens over time or due to normal use or ageing) this includes, but is not limited to, gradual 
weathering, the effect of light; deterioration or depreciation;  any other gradually occurring 
damage (except subsidence, heave and landslip).
It also relied upon another policy term that Mr B and Miss L had a duty to prevent loss or 
damage to their property: 
Your duty to prevent loss or damage Everyone covered by this policy must:  take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage; and  keep insured property in 
good condition.
I have considered the comments made by Mr B and Miss L, as well as the desk assessment 
answers they gave and the points that Aviva has made, in my assessment of whether Aviva 
has been fair in relying on the policy exclusions, to decline the claim. 
From what I have read, the leak originated in Mr B and Miss Ls bathroom and there was 
water damage, namely mould that could be seen in between the wall of the bathroom and a 
bedroom. Mr B and Miss L said that the damage could only been seen once holes were 
made in the wall and not before this time. 
But Mr B and Miss L further explained that they had first noticed there was an issue as they 
had seen that the paint had bubbled on the wall. They observed the paint bubbling on the 
wall the previous summer. Miss L described that they were unaware of the cause of the paint 
bubbling. And they chose to redecorate the room where they had seen the damaged paint. 
I note that Mr B and Miss L said that the bubbling paint had: gotten worse. And there was 
additional damage to the floor. 
Aviva said that the damage was gradual. And by the time that Mr B and Miss L had made a 
claim for the damage, it had got significantly worse. 
Im satisfied that Mr B and Miss L knew that there was an issue as the damage originally 
manifested in the bubbling paint, on the wall. While I accept that they couldnt at that stage 
have known that the bubbling paint was a leak, they were aware that there was an issue. I 
say this as they describe having to redecorate the room and this appeared to remove the 
bubbling paint. But a few months later, further damage was seen in the same area as before. 
And it was at this point Mr B and Miss L made further investigations. 
They had a trace and access completed and mould was discovered as well as a leak. I dont 
think it wouldve been unreasonable for Mr B and Miss L to have carried out further 
investigations to see what the cause of the bubbling paint was. This they chose not to. 
They agreed that the damage had become worse and once the walls had been exposed, 
mould could be seen. Im satisfied that mould can gradually occur and given that Mr B and 
Miss L accept that the damage became worse, I think that it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that the damage was gradually occurring (from the bubbling paint, to the mould). 
And it was fair for it to rely on this term when it declined their claim. 
I have next considered the other term that Aviva relied on. This related to Mr B and Miss Ls 
duty to prevent loss or damage. They said that they complied with this term, as they had 
maintained their property and even carried out redecoration of the room. 
But Aviva wasnt disputing that the property wasnt well maintained, the issue is that it said 
that Mr B and Miss L failed in their duty to prevent loss or damage. In that, when they initially 
noticed damage to the wall (the paint bubbling) which progressively got worse, they didnt 
carry out further investigations or mitigate their loss. Consequently, Im persuaded that Mr B 
and Miss L didnt comply with this term as I cant see that they took any reasonable 
precautions, to prevent damage or mitigate the loss. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think Aviva was unfair to decline Mr B and Miss 
Ls claim. I think it was reasonable to rely on the exclusion clause of gradually occurring 
damage, as there is evidence that the damage was gradual. Also, I dont think Mr B and 
Miss L took reasonable precautions to prevent damage. 
I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr B and Miss L wouldve liked but, 
currently, I cant reasonably ask Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint. If Mr B 
and Miss L have any other evidence that is contrary to Avivas, I will consider it. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva made no response.
Miss L and Mr B said that they were disappointed by the outcome. But wanted Aviva to 
attend and repair the holes that were made during the trace and access. 
I understand that Aviva has agreed to carry out any repairs to the wall that had holes put into 
it, so that the trace and access could be carried out. I think that Aviva should arrange with Mr 
B and Miss L, to complete the repairs to the wall, as soon as possible. 
I also understand that my decision will be a disappointment for Mr B and Miss L. But as I 
explained, I didnt think Aviva was being unfair by relying on the terms and conditions of the 
policy, when it declined their claim. So, I couldnt reasonably ask it to do anything further 
regarding the complaint. But I would expect them to repair the damaged wall as it had 
agreed.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman