DRN-2051244
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr B took out a motor insurance policy with Watford through an online price comparison site. 
When his car was involved in an accident, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Watford declined his claim, cancelled his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr B complained it said hed answered the question hed been asked about the cars 
owner and registered keeper incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation. It said Mr B had no insurable interest in the car which 
entitled it to cancel his policy, refuse his claim and retain his premiums. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He 
thought The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
applied in this case. He agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt 
think this was deliberate or reckless. He believed it was careless. So he thought Watford 
was fairly entitled to avoid the policy (treat it as if it never existed) and decline the claim. But 
he said Watford should refund Mr Bs premiums. 
Watford doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans review, so 
the complaint has come to me for a final decision. It said it hadnt avoided the policy but 
cancelled it. It said Mr B didnt have any insurable interest in the car. It said it would 
backdate the cancellation to the date of the accident. And it would give Mr B a pro rata 
refund of his premium from that date. Mr B said he agreed with the investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watford told Mr B that he had misrepresented who the cars owner and registered keeper 
was. It said his mothers name was on the V5 registration document and she was paying the 
finance. But Mr B had said when asked that he was the cars owner and keeper. 
So I think the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Watford thought Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he stated in his application via a comparison site that he was the cars owner and registered 
keeper. 
Ive looked at the question Mr B was asked when he completed the application and agree he 
failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked Are you the owner and 
registered keeper of the car (or will you be)? A pop up advised that if his name was on the 
V5, then he was the registered keeper. And I think this was a clear question asked by 
Watford through the comparison site Mr B used.
Mr B said he was the cars owner and registered keeper. Hes explained that this was 
because hed been given the car as a birthday present and was paying for the insurance 
himself. Hes provided evidence of this. 
But Mr Bs mothers name was on the cars V5 document and the finance agreement for the 
car was in her name. Mr B was also sent the proposal form for him to check and tell Watford 
of any errors. This had Mr B as the cars owner and registered keeper. But Mr B didnt then 
correct this. And so I think this means Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said he was the cars owner and registered keeper. 
Watford has provided evidence which shows that if Mr B had not made this 
misrepresentation it wouldnt have provided cover. This means I am satisfied Mr Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Watford thought Mr Bs misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. 
But I disagree. Under CIDRA, consumers are only required to answer questions to the best 
of the knowledge or belief. Im satisfied that Mr B thought he was the cars owner because 
hed been given it as a present and he was paying for the insurance. Mr B was a young, 
inexperienced driver and I cant see that he understood what the V5 meant. 
Watford thought that Mr B had deliberately not changed over the V5 to his name in order to 
retain the cars value. So it thought he must have known that hed answered the question 
incorrectly. But Mr B offered this suggestion after Watford had made its decision. So I dont 
think it would be fair to rely on it to show that Mr B had made a deliberate misrepresentation. 
So I think Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Watford was entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Watford does not have 
to deal with his claim following the loss of his car. But, under CIDRA, it must return Mr Bs 
premiums in full. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Watford to rely on it to avoid Mr Bs policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. 
Putting things right
As I think Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless, I require 
Watford to comply with CIDRA and refund Mr Bs premiums in full. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. I 
require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman