DRN-3722509
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr K complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
declined their claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr K had a home insurance policy with Chaucer. In January 2021 they had a 
problem with a leak from a pipe under their driveway. They got the leak fixed and made a 
claim on their insurance in order to repair the damage.
Chaucer initially declined their claim because it said they didnt have cover for accidental 
damage under the policy, and this is the only way underground pipes would be covered. 
However Mr K disputed this as his policy documents confirmed accidental damage cover 
was included. Chaucer reviewed the matter and agreed accidental damage was included but 
it was provided by a different insurer so Mrs B and Mr K would need to contact the other 
insurer to make a claim. 
Mr K was unhappy with this as he said he thought the cover was included under one policy. 
And hed attempted to reach out to the other insurer but had been passed between 
companies without success. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
the policy documents given to Mrs B and Mr K show that accidental damage cover is 
included in the policy and it isnt clear that theyd need to approach a separate company in 
order to claim. Due to this, she thought Chaucer should deal with the claim under the terms 
and conditions of accidental damage cover in the policy.
Mrs B and Mr K accepted our investigators outcome. However Chaucer didnt. It said as 
cover is provided by a different insurer for accidental damage, it wouldnt be fair to ask it to 
cover the claim. And it said Mrs B and Mr K were given details about how to make a claim on 
this cover when they took out the policy. Chaucer asked for the matter to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the information about the policy that was provided to Mrs B and Mr K at 
inception and renewal. The policy schedule states accidental damage as an inclusion of 
cover and shows the relevant policy limit. Later in the document, under a heading of 
Optional Buildings Cover it states:
Only applicable if Accidental Damage Cover is shown on your Schedule
Accidental Damage to Underground Pipes and Cables
From this, I think Mrs B and Mr K would have reasonably thought they had accidental 
damage cover that included underground pipes and cables, as part of their home insurance 
policy. As the schedule says accidental damage cover is included and then confirms that if 
included this includes damage to underground pipes. 
Chaucer has said that while they do have the cover, its provided by a different company and 
this is also detailed on the documents Mrs B and Mr K were sent at inception and renewal.
Ive looked at the documents and I can see that the second page of the renewal document 
states:
Accidental Damage
Standard - supplied by [Company A]
Extended - supplied by [Company B]
Company A is the representative of Chaucer that goes by a different name. 
Having considered this, I dont think it would have been clear to Mrs B and Mr K what theyd 
need to do in the event of a claim for accidental damage. Two different companies are listed 
and no further detail given about which should be contacted for different types of claim on 
the policy schedule.
Further, Mr K originally claimed under his home emergency cover, which is provided by 
Chaucer. And when he subsequently made a claim it initially said that the cover wasnt 
included at all for accidental damage. And it wasnt until Mr K persisted that it realised they 
had cover through a different provider. So this wasnt clear even to an insurer. I therefore 
dont consider it unreasonable that Mrs B and Mr K didnt understand this from the policy 
documents.
Further, from looking at the policy document that Chaucer has sent that is specifically for the 
accidental damage cover with the other business, it lists in the exclusions Underground 
pipes, drains and cables  accidental damage to. From this it seems that cover for 
underground pipes wouldnt be covered in the extension anyway. This means that even if 
Mrs B and Mr K successfully make a claim with the other company, it will likely be declined.
Based on this, I think the information provided by Chaucer about the policy was ambiguous 
and misleading. The policy schedule clearly stated that accidental damage cover is included 
with no mention of a different company to contact. And it appears to specifically outline that 
underground pipes are included when the accidental damage cover is included. I think a 
reasonable lay consumer would read that to mean that cover is included as part of the same 
policy. 
Moreover, cover for underground pipes is considered standard in home insurance policies, 
and I think its reasonable that a consumer would assume this was covered if it wasnt made 
clear that it wasnt. So I think if the policy documents had been more straight forward and 
easy to follow, and Mrs B and Mr K had understood that they dont have cover for 
underground pipes, then they would likely have sought alternative home insurance cover. So 
the fact the documents were ambiguous and unclear has caused Mrs B and Mr K a direct 
loss. 
It's also of note that Chaucer has now taken a number of months to deal with the claim. And 
while the event was over a year ago, Mrs B and  Mr K have been unable to have repairs carried out to their driveway. Had the policy documentation been clearer, then they likely 
wouldnt have been in this position for so long. 
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that the documentation provided by Chaucer 
was unclear and misleading. And this has led to Mrs B and Mr K still being no further forward 
with their claim. Because of this I agree Chaucer should accept the claim and settle it in line 
with the accidental damage terms in its policy document.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs B and Mr Ks complaint. I require Chaucer 
Insurance Company Designated Activity Company to accept Mrs B and Mr Ks claim under 
the accidental damage cover in its policy document and settle it in line with the policy terms 
and conditions, without applying an exclusion for underground pipes.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman