DRN-3227043
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refused his request to change a commercial loan to 
interest only and then refused his request to remove its charge from one of his properties. 
And, when he satisfied its requirements, Lloyds delayed removing the charge, causing him 
to lose the opportunity he had to buy two other properties.
What happened
By way of background, Lloyds has explained that Mr H opened business accounts with it in 
November 2008 and it provided him with lending facilities secured on two of his properties, 
one of which is central to this complaint. Since then Mr H has repaid lending to release a 
charge on a property, had a charge placed on another of his properties and taken several 
other commercial loans with Lloyds.
Mr H has explained that he asked Lloyds to change his commercial loan to interest only so 
that he could free-up cashflow to enable him to buy two other commercial properties. He was 
told by Lloyds that he could only change to interest only if he was struggling to make 
payments  but he wasnt. He sent evidence from Lloyds website that it was offering interest 
only commercial lending, but it still declined his request. He complained about that to Lloyds 
but it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr H then requested Lloyds release its charge over a property he owned so that he could 
use that property as security for lending to buy the two commercial properties. The property 
he owned was additional security for commercial borrowing secured against another of Mr 
Hs properties and the loan on that other property was then only 50% of its market value. He 
says he was told by Lloyds that if he made a payment of £91,739 to reduce his outstanding 
balance, it would release the charge from the property he was using as additional security. 
He made that payment on 18 May 2020.
Having not heard from Lloyds, Mr H chased it to release its charge on 30 July 2020. Mr H 
says he was told nothing had happened and Lloyds would write to tell him when it was 
released. He says he then gave up on the whole matter. Lloyds responded to his complaint 
about the delay on 28 September 2020 and it was in that letter that he was informed the 
property had been discharged 3 August 2020. By that time, it was too late.
As well as missing out on the purchase opportunities, Mr H says he no longer has the liquid 
asset of the £91,739 to pursue other opportunities. And, throughout the process, Lloyds 
handling of the matter impacted his mental health, causing him anxiety, stress and suicidal 
thoughts.
Lloyds says it was unable to release its charge as per Mr Hs request of February 2020 
without him making a substantial payment towards the balance of four ongoing loans. It 
didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint about this in March 2020. Mr H then made payments totalling 
£114,000, clearing two loans and partially clearing another. 
In its final response letter dated 12 March 2020, Lloyds said as Mr H had declined to reduce 
his lending in accordance with his request to release security on his property, it was not able 
to complete his request. It also quoted the terms and conditions of the loan agreement 
relating to it being an all sums charge:
Any security given to the Bank (whether given before the date on which this 
agreement is signed by the Bank, or at any time in the future, and whether or not 
specified in this agreement) shall, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, be security 
not only for the loan but also for all other moneys and liabilities whether certain or 
contingent at any time due, owning or incurred by you to the Bank
It further explained that the banks policy required 120% debt service cover on a stressed 
basis and release of the charge on Mr Hs property would not meet that.
Lloyds sent another final response letter on 20 March 2020. It said its calculation [of how 
much it required Mr H to repay before it would consider releasing its charge over his 
property] was based on capital and interest because all his borrowing with it is on that basis. 
And it said its calculations include a stress test based on overall borrowing against all 
income. 
Lloyds sent a final response, specifically addressing Mr Hs complaint about the delay in it 
releasing the charge following his payment to reduce the overall loan balance, on 21 
September 2020. It upheld this complaint acknowledging its delays and offering £250 to 
compensate Mr H. Lloyds said it didnt obtain permission from its credit department until 10 
June 2020 and didnt instruct the security to be discharged until he contacted Lloyds again 
on 30 July 2020. The letter confirmed the following dates:
13 May 2020  Mr H requested the restructure of security [the release of the charge over 
the property in question].
18 May 2020  Mr H paid £91,739.
30 July 2020  Mr H chased Lloyds for release of its charge over the property.
3 August 2020  Lloyds released its charge over the property.
Lloyds has explained to us separately that, during the time period pertinent to this complaint, 
it received unprecedented demand for discharging securities. This was entirely due to the 
covid pandemic and the volume of business lending being restructured. But it acknowledged 
that, while its backlogs were approximately eight weeks, it took closer to 12 to fulfil Mr Hs 
request. 
With regard to Mr Hs complaint that Lloyds initially refused to release the charge over his 
property, our investigator found that Lloyds correctly applied its policy. Shed seen 
documentation to confirm the wording of the terms and conditions of Mr Hs borrowing was 
as Lloyds had quoted in its final response letters. So, she didnt think it acted unfairly by 
asking Mr H to make the repayment that he subsequently did.
With regard to Mr Hs complaint about the delay following his repayment, our investigator 
thought Lloyds offer of £250 was fair in the circumstances  including those of increased 
demands on Lloyds due to the pandemic. She said she hadnt seen evidence that the delay 
had caused detriment to the purchasing of the properties. And she thought it possible that Mr 
H could still have acquired the properties had he not withdrawn from the process.Mr H didnt agree. He said £250 does not cover the lost business opportunity or the impact 
on his mental health. Had he known how long it would take for Lloyds to release its charge, 
he wouldnt have made the payment to reduce his overall debt, thereby retaining liquidity.
As Mr H didnt agree, his complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. I wrote to 
both parties with my provisional decision on 12 November 2021 allowing both parties a 
month to respond. Lloyds Bank PLC accepted my provisional decision, but Mr H didnt 
respond. Ill now set out my final decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision of 12 November 2021 I wrote:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Hs complaint, Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Lloyds 
to refuse Mr Hs request to release its charge on his property. And Ive thought about 
whether the amount of money it offered him in relation to the time taken to release 
the charge, having received his payment to reduce his outstanding loans, was 
reasonable. 
Mr H has mentioned, as detailed above, that, before asking the business to release 
its charge over his property, he asked for the repayment basis of his borrowing to be 
changed to interest only. Lloyds hasnt addressed that in the final response letters 
that its provided to us and its not clear if Mr H ever complained to Lloyds about that 
point specifically. Ill address it here because my thoughts are similar to those about 
its refusal to release its charge at that time.
Its clear from what Ive seen that the property in question was one of at least two 
which Lloyds had charges over to secure several commercial loans. The excerpt 
above, quoted from Lloyds terms and conditions, tells me that the security Lloyds 
accepts with this type of borrowing arrangement isnt necessarily the property the 
loan is taken to purchase. And I can see that the overall amount outstanding varied 
dependant on Mr Hs needs since the start of his business banking with Lloyds in 
2008.
Lloyds agreed Mr Hs commercial borrowing on the basis that it would have the 
security of the properties it required charges over and that it would be repaid on a 
capital an interest basis. That means it agreed to take on that risk taking into account 
those specific requirements. So, I think its reasonable that it would only accept those 
requirements changing  an increase to the risk it was prepared to accept  under 
certain conditions. In this case Lloyds required its risk to be equalised by the 
reduction of Mr Hs overall debt and was specific about how much that reduction 
needed to be. So, I think it acted reasonably in that regard.
The risk Lloyds accepted when it agreed Mr Hs borrowing was that it would be set 
up on a capital repayment basis. So, irrespective of what it may now offer or may 
have offered at the time when Mr H initially took out the loans, in his circumstances, 
Lloyds accepted the risk knowing that he would be repaying capital over the term. 
Lloyds told Mr H that it would consider a change to interest only if he was experiencing financial difficulties and he told us he thought that logic was flawed. But 
I think it is reasonable that a lender might consider such a concession if a borrower 
was struggling to make payments, despite the impact on the risk to the lender. In this 
case, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds not to consider Mr Hs request on 
the basis that he simply wanted greater cashflow for other business opportunities.
Lloyds has acknowledged that the removal of its charge took longer than it should 
have done, even taking account of it being a particularly busy period causing delays 
to similar requests. It says Mr H had to wait approximately four weeks longer than the 
average waiting time. I think its understandable that the banks were struggling to 
keep up with demand generally at that time dealing with the increased activity caused 
by the covid pandemic. And I think Lloyds explanation of why this area of its 
business in particular was struggling to keep up with demand is plausible given that 
businesses were also finding it difficult to make payments on loans.
However, Mr H does appear to have waited two weeks longer than he needed to. 
And he says this affected his mental health and resulted in lost business 
opportunities. Our investigator asked Mr H to provide evidence that Lloyds delays 
actually prevented him from buying the properties he wanted as he said he gave up 
on the whole matter.
Mr H provided evidence of his business plan and of a holding deposit he paid on one 
of the properties. So, Ive seen that he was serious about his plans and it appears 
that he invested much time and effort into making sure they would succeed. But I 
havent actually seen that Lloyds delays prevented those purchases from 
proceeding. I think its possible that they may have done, but I havent seen thats 
any more likely than any of a number of other factors that may have prevented them. 
And I say that mindful of the fact that many aspects of ordinary life were affected by 
the covid pandemic at that time, meaning many other factors may have influenced Mr 
Hs plans. So, I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Lloyds delay was 
more likely than not the cause of the failure of Mr Hs plans. 
Mr H says hes lost the financial liquidity provided to him by the payment he now 
feels he made to Lloyds unnecessarily. But Lloyds has released its charge on the 
property as Mr H required. That means he does have that property for security on 
future borrowing elsewhere. And I havent been persuaded by anything Ive seen that 
the properties Mr H wanted to purchase represented unique business opportunities. 
So, I dont think hes in a worse position, having reduced his overall debt with Lloyds.
I have thought carefully about the impact Mr H says Lloyds had on his mental health. 
And I hope that his experience hasnt had any long-term effect on him. While I think 
the mental health impact of any given situation is difficult to measure and differs from 
person to person, I think a certain degree of stress is inevitable in transactions of this 
type. And they can be more complex when they are of a business nature. I think, as a 
person with years of experience in business, Mr H must have understood the 
potential challenges. And hes not told us that he suffers with his mental health more 
generally or that hed informed Lloyds that he was vulnerable. Lloyds has offered Mr 
H £250 in recognition of the distress its delay caused. Taking what Ive seen into 
account I think thats reasonable.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds to decline Mr Hs initial requests. 
And I havent seen that Lloyds delays were the cause of the failure of Mr Hs plans or 
that he cant now use the unencumbered property for security on future business 
borrowing. I do think that Lloyds delays caused Mr H some distress, but I think its 
offer of £250 is reasonable considering all the circumstances.I have reviewed my provisional findings, but as neither party has asked me to consider any 
further submissions, Ive seen nothing to make me think I should change them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. But it 
should pay him the £250 it offered, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman