DRN-3418005
The complaint
Miss B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly gave her a credit 
card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 18 August 2020, Miss B applied for a credit card account with Vanquis. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £250. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2021, Miss B complained to Vanquis to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Vanquis ought to have made a better 
effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Bs complaint is that Vanquis made credit available that was unaffordable. Vanquis has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of 
credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. Its possible that Vanquis failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Miss B with credit. But even if thats true, I dont 
think better enquiries would have caused Vanquis to think the initial credit limit was 
unaffordable. 
I say this because Miss B told Vanquis at the point of sale that whilst she was not working, 
she had a good regular income from benefits. And Ive seen nothing in the bank 
statements from that time that would have caused Vanquis to change its mind about 
extending credit to Miss B. I say that because the balance was not negative. 
The initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments for that credit were 
also relatively modest. Ive noted the arrears that show on the credit file Miss B has 
provided us. But there appear to have been two accounts showing some adverse 
markings but of such an amount that I think they would have put Vanquis off supplying this 
credit had they known about them at the time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Vanquis to think that the credit it 
provided Miss B was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss B was 
managing her account or what Vanquis could see of her management of other credit ought 
to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Miss B to know that I listened to all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman