DRN-4086560
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc charged a fee when processing a foreign currency 
transfer to his bank account.
What happened
Mr R transferred 135,000 Euros from an overseas account to his Sterling Santander account 
and received £117,207.18. Mr R says that he was told at his local branch that there were no 
fees for transferring funds from the overseas account to his account with Santander. He says 
that he received around £1,500 less than he expected to, and when he queried this with 
Santander, he was told it uses an intermediary bank and they charge a fee for foreign 
currency transactions. 
Mr R complained to Santander. It said there were no errors on its part, and that intermediary 
banks charge their own fees. It paid Mr R £50 in compensation because it said he was given 
incorrect information when he initially made enquiries about transferring his money. 
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. He said that had he been told about the fees, he 
would have transferred the funds through another business that offered a charge free 
service. Santander has since told our service Mr R wasnt charged a fee by the intermediary 
bank or it, and the amount he received was based on its Euro exchange rate on the day. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt unusual for a 
bank to use an intermediary bank for an international transfer. Our investigator was satisfied 
the transaction had been carried out fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. He thought the amount that cleared in Mr Rs account wasnt what hed expected 
because the exchange rate he found in his research differed from Santanders rate. Our 
investigator thought the £50 Santander paid was fair compensation for the incorrect 
information he was given.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said he was told on three occasions that a 
deduction was made for fees. He thinks Santander is trying to explain away his losses by 
saying it chose a different rate to the one he read in a newspaper. Our investigator didnt 
change his opinion. He acknowledged Mr R was given incorrect information over the phone, 
but maintained the transfer was carried out correctly. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Mr R would like Santander to pay him the £1,500 he says he lost out on. So, what I must 
consider is whether Santander carried out the transaction correctly and treated Mr R fairly 
and reasonably, and I find it did. I know this will be disappointing to hear, but Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account say: 
Our exchange rates for foreign currency payments are based on our Santander reference 
exchange rates for the relevant currency. We have different reference rates depending on 
the size of the transaction and whether you are buying (if you are sending a payment) or 
selling currency (if you are receiving a payment into your account).
I think its helpful to highlight that the exchange rates one might see online or in newspapers 
is an indication of what rates might be and is subject to change. Furthermore, Santander  
like all currency exchange providers, isnt bound by these rates. They are entitled to set their 
own exchange rates. And often the exchange rates offered by banks differ to those found 
when carrying out general research. 
Santander has provided this service with evidence of its Euro exchange rates at the time of 
Mr Rs transaction, and Im satisfied this shows the exchange rate on the day was 
1.15180652. I appreciate Mr R expected to receive more than he did, but Im satisfied the 
correct sum was deposited into his sterling account based on Santanders applicable 
exchange rate at the time. And the difference from what Mr R expected was a result of the 
difference in Santanders exchange rate and the information Mr R had researched in 
newspapers.  
Mr R doesnt think Santander ought to have used an intermediary bank in processing his 
transaction. However, the processes and systems Santander has in place are a business 
decision its entitled to make and not something I would look to interfere with. Even so, its 
worth explaining that its common practice for banks to use intermediary banks to carry out 
international payments, as it allows them to offer foreign currency transactions without 
needing to have a direct relationship with every bank worldwide. And I dont find Santander 
acted unreasonably in doing so here. 
Ive listened to the phone calls Mr R had with Santander and I accept he was told charges 
were likely to have been applied by the intermediary bank. It also gave the same impression 
in its written response to his complaint. However, having reviewed the available information, 
Im satisfied Mr R wasnt charged an additional fee for this transaction. And ultimately, I find 
the transaction was carried out correctly. 
Santander paid Mr R £50 in compensation because it thought he received incorrect 
information in branch when he was told there wouldnt be a charge for the transfer, but Im 
satisfied this information was correct. However, I find that during  phone calls with 
Santander, Mr R was given incorrect information regarding charges being applied, and I 
think this caused unnecessary frustration and confusion. Had he been given accurate 
information, Mr R wouldnt have needed to phone Santander as many times as he did. But I 
find the £50 it already paid is fair compensation for the inaccurate information given over the 
phone and the inconvenience this caused. So, I wont ask Santander to do anything more 
than it already has.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman