DRN-3152870
The complaint
Mr M complains that C D Fairfield Capital Limited (Fairfield) has treated him unfairly in
respect of advice it gave, complaint advice, and debt counselling.
Any reference to Mr M or Fairfield includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M had a mortgage with Company A taken out through a broker (Company B).
Mr M has complained to these respective firms about their actions, related to 
concerns about the selling of a mortgage. But these complaints were brought too late 
for this service to consider.
Mr M contacted Fairfield for debt advice in 2015. He said it told him there was little he 
could do and suggested he should sell his property at a shortfall. Mr M didnt follow 
this advice. Fairfield also commented it didnt feel a mis-selling complaint would be 
successful. 
Mr M said since then, hes said he discovered many failings with how the mortgage 
had been sold. He said Fairfield shouldve recognised this and directed him to raise a 
complaint to Company A and B earlier than he did. 
Fairfield disagreed, and stood by the advice it had given. Mr M provided a number of 
detailed reasons why he disagreed with Fairfields comments about a mis-selling 
complaint. And he said the advice given about selling the property was poor.
The complaint was brought to this Service, and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Following some back and forth, the investigator said the specific complaint 
regarding whether Fairfield shouldve directed Mr M to complain to either Company A 
or B fell outside of the jurisdiction of this service. This was because this simply wasnt 
a regulated activity  even if the topic had been discussed.
And in regards to the remaining advice, the investigator said Fairfield had reasonably 
weighed up the available options with the advice it had given, so he wasnt 
persuaded it had acted unfairly.
Mr M disagreed, and he explained why all of his complaint points should be 
considered by the service. He also criticised Fairfields note and record keeping. 
These points didnt change the investigators mind. So, the complaint was passed to 
me for an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision on the subject on 9 November 2021. I determined that 
this service was able to consider the complaint about the debt counselling activity 
carried out by Fairfield. But not the complaint about whether Fairfield should have 
advised Mr M to complain to Company A or B. 
Mr M reiterated his belief that Fairfield failed to advise him properly on the Company 
A mortgage in place. 
So, the complaint has been considered again for a final decision on the merits of the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advice about making complaints
Within my jurisdiction decision I explained why I was satisfied the regulated activity being 
provided by Fairfield in this instance, and the subject of this complaint, was debt counselling.
Ive taken on board Mr Ms comments, but these are in essence the same points Ive already 
considered. And as Ive explained, I will not be commenting on this topic any further as this 
falls outside of the jurisdiction of this service. 
Financial advice
Mr M has complained about the advice hes been given. Specifically, he says it wouldve 
resulted in an adverse impact on his credit rating. And hes been clear that he didnt follow 
this advice as he disagreed with it. 
When considering Fairfields obligations, Ive taken into account whether it reached its 
recommendation correctly, not whether someone else may have recommended something 
else in the circumstances.
And in doing so, Ive taken account of its obligations within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). This requires advice of this nature to be in the best interests of the customer; be 
appropriate to their individual circumstances of the customer; and be based on a sufficiently 
full assessment of their financial circumstances. The firm should also explain why it 
considers the available options suitable and other options unsuitable. 
Fairfield said it considered Mr Ms situation and gave appropriate advice. It summarised this 
to this Service, saying:
we basically advised [Mr M] that he had limited options due to his financial situation at the 
time of the case review, that a sale at a shortfall would be declined by the bank but he could 
voluntary surrender the property to the bank for them to sell. However, if this was 
undertaken, the chances of debt settlement was low and likely to be only a low percentage 
or he would need to pay in full over an agreed period via a payment plan with the bank.
Ive looked over the notes from Fairfields meeting. This suggests a number of options were 
considered, including an IVA, bankruptcy and others. And the notes reflect that a 
conversation took place explaining why it made the suggestion it did in light of the available 
options. Having kept Fairfields obligations in mind, Im satisfied it reached its 
recommendations correctly in light of the facts.
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that the advice he gave wasnt in his best interests as it 
wouldve impacted his credit rating. But Im not persuaded this difference in perspective 
amounts to a failing on Fairfields behalf. And instead, appears to be a difference in opinion. 
Mr M ultimately didnt follow Fairfields advice, so even if I were to agree its advice wasnt 
suitable  which I dont  it appears to me any impact of Fairfields actions is limited. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Fairfield has acted fairly and reasonably and Im 
not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman