DRN-3788957
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to 
him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr P with a loan for £1,600.00 in September 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of just under £160. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr P and Everyday Loans had told us. And he 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint be upheld. Mr P disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr P could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr Ps application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and copies of bank statements that it obtained. In 
its view all of this information showed Mr P could afford to comfortably make the repayments 
he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr P has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and Everyday Loans have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that Everyday Loans carried out a credit check on Mr P and obtained bank 
statements from him. So I dont think that this was a case of Everyday Loans simply 
accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value. 
Everyday Loans credit search does show that Mr P had some existing debts. But these 
were relatively well managed and werent excessive either.
 
Equally, as this was Mr Ps first loan with Everyday Loans, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on what it had been provided with. There wasnt anything obvious 
in the information gathered during this application which lead me to think that further checks 
would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Ps actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Everyday Loans obtained. But the key here is 
that Everyday Loans was providing a loan for a relatively small sum  especially considering 
the relatively low monthly payment too. Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances 
here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
Everyday Loans to lend here. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr P - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Everyday Loans of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Mr Ps loan and it be the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman