DRN-4382734
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Avantia Insurance Limited mis-sold their home insurance, which left 
them underinsured when they made a claim for repairs to an outbuilding.
What happened
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B took out a home insurance policy online through Avantia. The policy 
contained a limit for the rebuild or repair of outbuildings of £7,500. 
Some months later, Mr and Mrs B made a claim under their insurance policy for subsidence 
damage to an outbuilding. The insurer  who Ill refer to as A, accepted the claim but said 
the repairs would exceed the policy limit of £7,500 for outbuildings, so it gave Mr and Mrs B 
a cash settlement for that amount. Mr and Mrs B complained about As offer and has 
received a response from our service on that complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B also complained to Avantia. They said it hadnt made it clear that theyd need 
a higher limit of outbuilding cover. They also said it told them in 2019 they couldnt move 
insurance provider.
Avantia said it gave information online about how outbuildings is defined, and Mr and Mrs B 
were asked if £7,500 was sufficient cover, to which they answered yes. It also said it is for 
Mr and Mrs B to ensure the policy meets their needs, and it had given information in the 
policy information to enable them to do so. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr and Mrs B brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator requested further information from Avantia in order to review the complaint. This 
wasnt received. So she assessed the complaint based on the evidence in Avantias final 
response letter, and the comments from Mr and Mrs B. 
She wasnt satisfied Avantia had met its obligations under the regulations for a non-advised 
sale. She said although Mr and Mrs B did answer that £7,500 was sufficient cover, she 
hadnt seen any evidence that Avantia made it clear enough that Mr and Mrs B ought to 
have provided an estimate for the rebuild cost of their outbuildings. She said if Avantia had 
made this clear, Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have received a reduced settlement claim by A. 
To put matters right the investigator said Avantia should put Mr and Mrs B in the position 
theyd have been in, had the cover for the outbuilding been adequate. She said it could do 
this by reimbursing the difference between what the repairs cost and the settlement from A. 
Or by instructing its own contractors to do the work, with Mr and Mrs B paying £7,500 
towards this. She also said Avantia should pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect information given. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted the outcome. Avantia didnt respond. As Avantia didnt respond 
within the deadline given by the investigator, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B took this policy out online as a non-advised sale. That means under the 
insurance regulations, Avantia didnt need to ensure the policy would meet the needs of Mr 
and Mrs B. But it did need to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order for Mr and Mrs B to make an informed decision about whether the cover was suitable 
for them. It also responsible for gathering information from the consumer that it considers 
relevant  such as the rebuild cost of the outbuildings. 
This policy was taken out online. Avantia has provided the screen shots of what Mr and Mrs 
B saw when taking out the policy. Avantia says this specifically asked Mr and Mrs B about 
the cost of rebuilding their outbuilding, but I dont agree thats the case. The screenshot it 
provided says the policy includes £7,500 cover for rebuilding or repairing all attached 
outbuildings, is this sufficient? That is not the same as asking Mr and Mrs B how much it 
would cost to rebuild the outbuilding. Or setting out that they would need to provide an 
estimate for that. 
There is a question mark next to this section. If this is clicked, further information is provided. 
It says if you need any more than that please enter the total amount of cover you require. 
There is also a definition of outbuildings included in this. This explains that outbuildings 
includes any patios, driveways, garages etc. But it doesnt seem theres any requirement for 
this section to be read or reviewed before proceeding with the insurance. So Mr and Mrs B 
could have carried on without having this knowledge. 
The only thing Mr and Mrs B needed to do for outbuildings was confirm they were happy with 
cover of £7,500. Having considered everything, I dont think Avantia gave Mr and Mrs B 
enough information  at the time of sale  for them to properly assess whether this would 
meet their needs. 
It may be that Avantia does have further evidence of the guidance provided to Mr and Mrs B 
at the point of sale. But its had several opportunities to provide this service with a response 
and further evidence, and it hasnt done so. So Ive assessed the complaint on the basis of 
what we do have.
Avantia has pointed to other documentation which explains more about outbuildings cover 
and what it entails. For example it points to parts of the policy document sent to them. But all 
of this was provided after the sale. And whilst I accept Mr and Mrs B have a cancellation 
period in case they change their minds on cover, it doesnt mean Avantia can use this to say 
that, in this case, Mr and Mrs B were provided with sufficient information at the point of sale. 
Mr and Mrs B say theyve never previously had a limit on an outbuilding. And they didnt 
understand it meant any claim pay out would be limited. They also said during their claim 
they werent told for a number of years that there was any issue with their outbuildings limit. 
Im satisfied based on what theyve said that if theyd been given enough information as to 
what was included in the definition of outbuildings, theyd have realised that £7,500 wasnt 
sufficient cover. And theyd have acted differently and increased their outbuildings cover if 
theyd been given the information they should have been.
From reviewing the screenshot provided by Avantia, it does seem Mr and Mrs B could have 
increased the cover on their policy  the additional information on the question mark link 
mentioned they can select £10,000 cover for example. It seems the rebuild cost Mr and Mrs 
B should have entered is around £15,000. 
Avantia hasnt confirmed whether this level of cover was available on this policy. But even if 
it wasnt, based on what Ive seen Im persuaded, on balance, that if Mr and Mrs B had been 
given the right information, theyd have sought out a policy that did provide this level of 
cover. 
Had Mr and Mrs B had the right level of cover, they wouldnt have received a reduced pay 
out from the insurer - A. So as Ive found  based on the evidence provided  Avantia is responsible for Mr and Mrs B not having sufficient cover in place, it needs to do something to 
put them back in the position they would have been in, had it given the correct information. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B havent had the necessary repairs carried out. So Avantia needs 
to provide a cash settlement for the value of the works above £7,500. Avantia could also use 
its own contractors to do the works, but Mr and Mrs B would have to contribute £7,500 to the 
cost of the work. 
Mr and Mrs B have been caused inconvenience by Avantias actions, and it has led to a 
delay in their claim being fully resolved. So it also needs to pay £200 compensation to 
recognise this.
Mr and Mrs B also complained they were told they couldnt move insurers when it came to 
renewal in 2019. Avantia hasnt provided much in response to this point. Its referenced two 
calls Mr and Mrs B had with it in March 2019 when the policy first renewed. It says in the first 
call, the increase in premium was queried and Mr and Mrs B said theyd shop around. 
Avantia says the second call was a few days later and Mr and Mrs B agreed to go ahead. 
I dont have a copy of either of those calls to verify what Avantia has said. But on balance, 
Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to say they were told they couldnt go elsewhere. 
I accept it can be difficult to move insurers when theres an ongoing subsidence claim and 
premiums will most likely have been affected, but I havent seen any evidence that Mr and 
Mrs B could have got cheaper cover elsewhere but were told by Avantia they had to stay 
insured with the same policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Avantia Insurance Limited is required to pay 
the difference between what it will cost to repair the outbuilding, and the settlement from the 
insurer. 
As the repairs havent started, Avantia has the option to appoint its own contractors to carry 
out the works, and Mr and Mrs B would pay £7,500 towards this. 
Avantia Insurance Limited is also required to pay £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman