DRN-1485146
The complaint
Mr A complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) wont refund to him the money that hes paid for a 
sofa-bed that he hasnt received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr A entered in to a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano Bank in December 2017 to 
pay for some furniture  the cost of the furniture was £1,700, he paid a deposit of 
£400 and agreed to make 35 monthly repayments of £36.12 and a final repayment of 
£35.80  the loan was interest free;
the invoice shows that Mr A bought two three seat sofa-beds which cost £735 each 
and a TV table which cost £335  and he received a discount of £105;
one of the sofa-beds and the TV table were delivered in July 2018 but Mr A says that 
he didnt receive the other sofa bed;
he says that he cancelled the order for the other sofa-bed in November 2018 and the 
supplier has stopped trading so he contacted Ikano Bank and then complained to this 
service;
our investigator recommended that Ikano Bank should refund £692 to the agreement 
(which was the cost of the sofa adjusted for the discount) and that it should pay Mr A 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused;
Mr A has accepted that recommendation but Ikano Bank has asked for this complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman;
I consider it to be clear from the evidence that Ive seen that Mr A only received one 
of the sofa-beds and the TV table and that the other sofa-bed wasnt delivered to him 
 and hes now cancelled the order for the second sofa-bed so wont be receiving it;
under the loan agreement hes been paying for the sofa-bed and TV table that he 
received and also for the sofa bed that he didnt receive  I dont consider that to be 
fair or reasonable; and
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Ikano Bank 
to credit £692 to Mr As account for the adjusted cost price of the sofa-bed  and, if 
that puts the account into credit, it should refund the credit balance to Mr A.
Putting things right
I find that Ikano Bank should credit Mr As account with £692 for the adjusted cost price of 
the sofa  and, if that puts the account into credit, it should refund the credit balance to him. 
These events have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr A. I find that Ikano Bank should 
also pay him £100 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I order Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
1. Credit £692 to Mr As account (and, if that puts the account into credit, to pay any 
credit balance to Mr A).
2. Pay 100 to Mr A to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman