DRN-3803737
The complaint
Ms D has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a fee-
paying Reward Platinum account in May 2017.
Ms D says it was mis-sold as she was told she had to take out a packaged account to get an 
overdraft.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the account had been 
mis-sold. 
Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
In her response to the adjudicators assessment, I note that Ms D told our service that shed 
previously called NatWest and was told that she would lose her overdraft if she removed the 
Reward aspect of the account. 
As I cant see that this matter was initially raised with NatWest in this complaint, Ms D will 
need to raise those concerns with NatWest as a separate complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint.
Ms D says that she was told she had to take out a Reward Platinum account to obtain an 
overdraft. However, Ms D applied for the account online, through NatWests website. 
NatWest says that its online sales process does not state that it is compulsory to hold a fee-
paying account to obtain any form of lending. And says that its website provides the full 
range of accounts that are available  including ones that are fee-free. 
Ive looked at an archived copy of NatWests website from when Ms D applied for her 
account. This is to gain an understanding of what Ms D was likely to have seen when she 
applied for the account. And nowhere can I see that it says that she was required to obtain 
the Reward Platinum account - or indeed any specific account - to be able to obtain an 
overdraft. On the contrary, the table that compares the differences between all of the 
accounts, clearly states that an arranged overdraft can be added to all of the current 
accounts that NatWest offered (including the fee-free Select account), subject to eligibility. 
Therefore, Ive not seen anything that made it seem that Ms D had to take out a Reward 
Platinum account specifically, to obtain an overdraft.
I note that the Reward Platinum packaged account that Ms D chose did include a £250 
interest free overdraft threshold. This meant that by having the Reward Platinum account, 
Ms D would not be charged any interest when using the first £250 of any arranged overdraft. 
Whereas the other cheaper packaged accounts, and the fee-free Select account all only 
offered a £10 interest free threshold. Therefore, I think its much more likely that Ms D 
agreed to the Reward Platinum account because of the overdraft benefit it offered, rather 
than because she thought it was the only option available to her to get an overdraft. 
I note that Ms D says she has not used any of the benefits provided by the account. But that 
doesnt mean it was mis-sold or that a refund of account fees is warranted. That is the case 
especially when Ms D chose the account herself online, without any form of recommendation 
being made by NatWest.
So taking everything into account, Ive not seen anything to suggest that NatWest has done 
anything wrong, or has acted unfairly or unreasonably, when it sold the account to Ms D.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman