DRN-3285625
The complaint
Mr H says he invested £50,000 into a BriceAmery Capital Ltd (BCL) fund in 2014 which 
BCL was supposed to manage, report (to him) on and arrange his exit from after five years. 
He says he paid BCL £5,000 separately for its services in these respects but it delivered 
none of them and, instead, it tried to extract from him another £5,000 payment in 2020 to 
arrange exit from the fund.
BCL says Mr Hs investment in a particular company (the company) was arranged by a 
third-party representative of that company, that BCLs involvement was limited to its 
agreement with the third-party (only) to help secure UK based funding and that it had no 
ongoing management, reporting or exit arrangement obligations towards Mr H.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and initially considered that it should not 
be upheld. 
She referred to the terms and engagement between BCL and the third-party, and the 
absence of any provisions in those terms for it to monitor and review investments. Instead, 
she said, the document limited BCLs role to the initial funding arrangements. She also 
referred to a copy of the agreement for Mr Hs investment and said there was a section that 
suggested an investment management service but it is not clear it applied to his investment, 
and there are other conflicting sections. The investigator also noted BCLs evidence that a 
management service existed only if agreed and paid for separately and Mr H did not opt for 
that.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome. He mainly said as follows  he applied, and paid, to invest 
in a BCL venture capital fund; his investment had nothing to do with the third-party or the 
company and he has no knowledge of either; BCL was obliged to provide him with the 
management service he paid for; and BCLs response shows it invested all his money in one 
company, contrary to what the investment terms he agreed led him to expect. 
The investigator reviewed the case and revised her opinion. She concluded that the 
complaint should be upheld. She said: 
There is no evidence that the scenario BCL presently describes is what Mr H went 
through in 2014.
There is content in the application form he completed for the BCL fund that led him to 
expect a management service for the £5,000 he had paid.
BCL says the £5,000 payment was made by Mr H in order for it (BCL) to support the 
company. His payment for support to the company, but not him, cannot be right.
BCL also refers to Mr Hs investment being made on terms he agreed with the third-
party, but there is no evidence of such terms. The agreement that is available is 
between him and BCL.
The agreement provided that BCL would provide statements to Mr H twice a year. It 
is not disputed that it never issued any statements to him throughout the investment.
BCL also appears to have failed to conduct an appropriateness assessment for Mr H, 
as it had a regulatory obligation to do.
The terms of the investment in the Product Brochure (PB) for the fund do not match 
the terms that BCL presently describe. Mr H made the investment based on the PB.
Mr H appears to have been led to expect a return of, and on, his investment after its 
term, hence his approach to BCL in 2020  only to find no such returns because the 
company and his investment no longer exist.
He should be compensated for his financial loss, refunded the £5,000 fee payment 
(with interest) and paid £250 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him.
BCL disputed this outcome, considered the investigators findings unfair and asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. It retained its core position (as summarised above) and it mainly 
said:
There is no evidence it agreed management, reporting or ongoing support for Mr H or 
his investment.
Its first ever contact with him was in March 2020, when he sought exit from the 
investment. Its role in the matter was limited only to holding client money prior to 
allocating it for funding of the company.
The third-party also served as Mr Hs agent, with whom he discussed the investment 
and who instructed BCL on his behalf. There is a clause in its terms of service which 
confirms its approach in dealing with agents.
Mr H was expected to have understood the risks of the investment as required by the 
product summary. The summary also states that not all the investments risks were 
covered in its contents.
There is no evidence that the investment term was six years, and it is odd that Mr H 
waited for six years to complain about not receiving any biannual statements.
The terms also confirmed to Mr H that it was his responsibility to take advice on 
suitability of his investment, that BCL gave no such advice, that it held no 
responsibility for suitability of the investment and that it held no responsibility for any 
losses from the investment.
The redress benchmark proposed by the investigator is inappropriate, because its 
profile mismatches that of Mr Hs investment in the company and its basis is 
unexplained. The 8% level of interest proposed for the £5,000 refund is unfair, given 
that interest rates over the past six years have been around 1%.
The case was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken on board all submissions by both parties, most of which conflict with each-other. 
However, helpfully, there is available undisputable documentary evidence that illustrates the 
basis upon which Mr Hs investment was made. 
Before I address the above, I consider it equally helpful to note the following  there is no 
evidence, in the circumstances of this case, of the alleged agency relationship between Mr H 
and the third-party. There is also no evidence of the third-party instructing, or engaging in 
any way with, BCL on his behalf. Therefore, there is no cause to further consider BCLs 
allegations in these respects. Those allegations have not been established, so I do not find 
that the third-party is relevant to anything done by Mr H in this case. 
On 7 March Mr H wrote to BCL and enquired into exiting the investment. It addressed the enquiry on 19 March and referred to receiving his transfer of £55,000 in 2014, using £50,000 
to provide funding to a company and then using £5,000 for its transaction and associated 
support fees. It also asked whether (or not) Mr H had contacted the company. He replied on 
25 March and said he had no cause to contact any companies BCL had invested in because 
his investment was with BCL and was under its management. He asked for statements that 
had not been sent to him over time and asked to exit and recover his money from the 
investment. BCL replied on the same day and said it was not obliged to provide statements 
for the investment or to arrange exit and recovery from it, it set out its fee rates for 
management and offered to send Mr H an engagement letter. Thereafter, each party 
disputed the others position  eventually resulting in referral of the matter to this service.
With specific regard to Mr H and his investment payment, there is evidence of the following  
As stated above, BCL received the payment of £55,000 directly from Mr H in 2014, it 
used £5,000 for its fees and it passed on £50,000 to the company. These facts are 
not in dispute. 
A copy of the relevant BriceAmery Entrepreneur Fund Application Pack (the pack) 
from 2014 has been shared with us. As stated on its cover page, the pack contains 
the funds procedure, application form and investor agreement.
In the main, the procedure confirmed the minimum £50,000 investment requirement 
and payment arrangement (payment to BCL, with details of its bank account and 
office address). The application forms leading statement is a strong recommendation 
that the applicant read and consider the PB, FAQs, procedure and investor 
agreement. The form is completed with Mr Hs details. Sections within it say he was 
applying to invest £50,000  in the BriceAmery Entrepreneur Fund on the terms set 
out in the Investor Agreement ; that he appointed the  Investment Manager on 
the terms of the Investor Agreement; that he had made payment; that he had read 
the PB and agreed to be bound by the investor agreement; and that he was applying 
on his own behalf. The form is signed by him and dated 15 April 2014.
The investor agreement document confirms that the agreement was directly between 
BCL and Mr H. At section 1 it says  The Agreement constitutes the contract 
between you and us appointing us to constitute and direct your investments in 
accordance with the Product Brochure.  At section 5 it categorised Mr H as a retail 
client, and at section 6 it set out BCLs Investment Management Service. This 
section confirmed that the fund was a discretionary investment service in which 
BCL, at its discretion, selected and managed qualifying investments which matched 
the principles and objectives stated in the PB. There is a reminder that the investor is 
responsible for taking advice on suitability (because BCL provided no such advice), 
and there is notice that unless the PB says otherwise there will be no restriction on 
the capital that can be put into one investment, type of investment or market. Section 
7 repeated that BCL gave no advice and section 12 confirmed its obligation to issue 
biannual statements. In section 16  under Our Liability  BCL said it  will act in 
good faith and with due diligence in managing your investment in accordance with 
this agreement. [my emphasis] It also accepted responsibility for loss arising from its 
negligence. Section 17 confirmed BCLs service to requests for withdrawals from the 
investment account it managed and section 18 addressed the terms for liquidation 
(and remittance of proceeds) of investments in the account and closure of the 
account. 
BCL also shared with us what amounted to the PB in 2014. I consider it a copy of the 
same document (or information) that was presented to Mr H at the time. The funds objective was stated as   to provide investors with medium term capital growth 
primarily through investments in a portfolio of small / medium sized companies 
(SMEs) in the UK . The documents summary further states that the funds 
coverage was qualifying businesses within the UK and its investment strategy section 
confirms that the fund was focused on the UKs private equity market. No single fixed 
term is mentioned in the document, instead the investment period is stated as one to 
three years or longer.
Based on the above evidence, neither the company nor the third-party was involved at the 
point of Mr Hs investment in 2014. This reinforces my earlier finding about the third-party. 
He contracted directly and only with BCL and it contracted with it for the purpose of 
arranging and managing his investment account and investment in the BriceAmery 
Entrepreneur Fund. 
For the sake of clarity, the management element has not been confused with fund 
management obligations. BCL was also the fund provider and the PB sets out those 
obligations differently and in terms that distinctly relate to fund management. The application 
form and investor agreement separately confirms an investment/portfolio management 
service dedicated to Mr H  as stated above, the existence and management of his 
investment account and service to the account in terms of withdrawals, investment 
liquidations and closure; and then references to custody and client money related services to 
his portfolio in sections 10 and 11. As such, it is not the case that one form of management 
has been mistaken for the other.
Mr Hs fee payment was for BCLs work in arranging his investment in his investment 
account and in the BriceAmery Entrepreneur Fund, and for its ongoing management service. 
On balance, and based on available evidence, I find that BCL delivered neither of these 
services. 
By its own admissions, it did not manage Mr Hs investment and did not provide the biannual 
statements owed to him; and it used the payment mainly to cover its work in supporting the 
company. As the investigator said, this could not possibly be right. It cannot be right that 
without prior notice to, and agreement with, him Mr Hs fee payment would be used mainly 
for the undisclosed purpose of supporting the operations of a company he was unaware of. 
There is no evidence of such prior notice, agreement or disclosure.
It has not been established, from available evidence and especially from BCLs submissions 
in the case, that Mr Hs capital was ever invested in the account or in the BriceAmery 
Entrepreneur Fund. BCL has repeatedly said it had nothing to do with the matter besides 
holding his money and then passing it to the company. The implication is that it, the BCL 
investment account and the BriceAmery Entrepreneur Fund were all remote to the use of his 
money. 
There is also a lack of evidence of that the company was an underlying investment 
destination within the fund and a lack of evidence that his capital was placed into the fund. 
Furthermore, I note that despite being paid into his investment account in April 2014, Mr Hs 
capital remained unused until it was passed to the company almost a year later in March 
2015. This too suggests his money never made it into the fund and that there was no 
attempt to invest it in any other way. 
Overall and on balance, all the above findings and evidence support the conclusions that   
Mr Hs £50,000 capital was not invested and managed as agreed; BCL did not arrange the 
investment he paid it to arrange; and it did not discharge the ongoing reporting obligation it 
owed him. The above conclusions serve as a basis for Mr H to receive a refund of the fees he paid 
BCL. In addition, the absences of investment in the fund (or any other investment in his 
investment account) and of ongoing management in his case are tantamount to 
mismanagement by BCL of his capital and his investment account. This serves as a basis to 
compensate him for any loss arising from that mismanagement  and it also comes under its 
liability for loss arising from negligence, which BCL confirmed in section 16 of the investor 
agreement. 
I also agree with the investigators finding that he should receive £250 from BCL for the 
trouble and upset the case has caused him. I set out my orders below.
Putting things right
In deciding what is fair, my aim is to put Mr H as close as I can to the position he would 
probably now be in if his fee payment had not been misused by BCL and if his capital had 
not been mismanaged by BCL. With regards to the former, and given that he did not receive 
the services the fee payment was made for (as I addressed above), I will order BCL to 
refund him the £5,000 fee payment with interest. 
I understand BCLs point about the interest rate used by the investigator. I use the same rate 
below because it is this services considered approach to do so. This is explained within our 
website. However, for BCLs convenience I quote the website explanation as follows  
In most cases, we think a rate of 8% simple per year is appropriate to reflect the cost of 
being deprived of money in the past. We wouldnt normally use the current rates paid on 
deposit accounts as a benchmark. This is because the rates of interest customers have to 
pay in order to borrow are usually much higher.
8% is also the same interest rate that the courts would normally award. This rate takes into 
account that:
the rate is gross before tax is deducted
it often applies to losses at times when different base rates applied
current interest rates charged on overdrafts and loans may not have reduced in line 
with the base rate
I will also order BCL to pay Mr H £250 for the trouble, upset and inconvenience the case has 
caused him. This is a fair amount to address the overall distress that has been caused to 
him in finding out his capital and fee payments have not been used as intended and agreed, 
and then having to pursue the matter up to the present point.
With regards to BCLs mismanagement of his capital, a simple refund of that capital would 
not be fair. Evidence shows that Mr H wanted, and took steps, to invest that capital, and it is 
true that BCL gave him no advice in the matter so the decision to invest appears to have 
been his idea. In these circumstances, the assumption is that he would probably have 
invested the capital in any case. 
The balance of available evidence is that BCL did not invest Mr Hs money in the 
BriceAmery Entrepreneur Fund, despite undertaking to do that; and it did not invest his 
investment account as the investor agreement required. Had he known this would happen 
he would probably have invested differently on 15 April 2014. It is not possible to say 
precisely what alternative he would have invested in, but I consider that the benchmark-
based redress ordered below is fair and reasonable considering the facts. The benchmark is the same proposed by the investigator. I am mindful of BCLs criticism of it, and I address 
that further below. 
what must BCL do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, BCL must:
Compare the performance of the investment made in the company (with his £50,000 
capital) with that of the benchmark shown below and pay him the difference between 
the fair value and the actual value (as both have been defined below). If the actual 
value exceeds the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Refund the £5,000 fee payment to Mr H. Pay interest on this refund at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date the payment was made and up to the date of 
settlement. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Pay Mr H £250 for the trouble, upset and inconvenience the matter has caused him.
Provide Mr H with the calculations of all payments in a clear and simple format.
Investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Mr Hs £50,000 in 
the company 
(Panasia Property 
Management)BCL says 
the 
company 
has been 
dissolvedThe FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index 
(prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index)15 April 
2014Date of 
settlement Not 
applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr H agrees to BCL taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) if it wishes to. If that is not possible then 
BCL may request an undertaking from Mr H  to be drawn up at BCLs expense  that he 
repays to BCL any amount he may receive from the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in the 
future.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
why is this remedy suitable?
In this section, I address BCLs criticism of the benchmark.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to be exposed to some risks in order to get a 
higher return. 
BCL has questioned why we have used this index without evidence of an assessment of    
Mr Hs risk profile and given that the fund he pursued was/is not comparable to the index. 
Use of the index does not mean Mr H would have invested in a fund or investment account 
based upon or linked to it. Instead, it serves as a measure of the sort of return he could have 
obtained from an alternative investment account. Evidence about suitability is not relevant to 
this because, in the present case, I am not determining what would have been a suitable 
alternative investment account. Instead, I have only found that he would have invested in an 
alternative one. 
The index broadly presents a medium risk profile. Evidence of the fund and of the terms for 
constituting Mr Hs BCL investment account shows that the risk profile that was applied was 
not below medium and was perhaps closer to the higher end of medium. Given his readiness 
to invest in the fund and account, a reasonable assumption is that any alternative he 
pursued at the time would probably have had a broadly medium risk profile. On balance and 
in the circumstances, I consider the index to be a fair benchmark for the calculation of 
redress in his case.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Hs case, the complaint event occurred before 1 April 2019 (it began in 2014) and the 
complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2019 (it was first referred to us in March 2020 and 
then the complaint form was submitted in July 2020), so the applicable compensation limit 
would be £160,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order BriceAmery Capital Ltd 
to calculate and pay him the redress, the refund and the trouble and upset award set out 
above. I also order it to provide him with calculations of all payments in a clear and simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman