DRN-4070628
The complaint
A company I will refer to as T complains about the administration and service provided by 
County Insurance Consultants Limited trading as Safe and Sound Insurance Centre 
(County) when it set up a commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
T says that it agreed for County to arrange a commercial motor insurance policy. But the 
finance agreement wasnt set up correctly. When a payment defaulted T says it wasnt made 
aware. This resulted in arrears in Ts premium instalments. It also says County failed to add 
vehicles to the policy when instructed.
T says that County didnt inform it that not all vehicles were covered for social, domestic and 
pleasure (SDP) purposes. Also, that carriage of goods cover was mis-sold. T says the 
policy was mis-managed by County and communication was poor, resulting in the problems 
it experienced. It says it no-longer has adequate motor insurance for its business. 
In its complaint response County says there was a delay arranging finance. This was due to 
factors outside its control relating to the finance company. County says all Ts vehicles were 
covered under its policy. It says it isnt responsible for any issues with the Motor Insurance 
Database (MIB). When a payment was missed County says it worked with T to resolve this. 
County says T arranged a statutory off-road notification (SORN) for the vehicle that wasnt 
covered for SDP use. The SORN meant it couldnt be driven on public roads and is why no 
SDP option was available. County says T was provided with details of the policy and didnt 
raise any issues with the carriage of goods cover. It says it assisted T as much as possible 
in its capacity as broker. 
T wasnt satisfied with this response and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He thought County had treated T fairly. Our investigator didnt 
comment on all the issues raised by T in his initial view. He sent a further response covering 
the remaining points. But he maintained his view that T had been treated fairly. 
T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider its complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Ts complaint. Let me explain. 
Finance agreement
County arranged for a finance provider offering a lower rate than T had been paying. Given 
the change in cover, and the increase in premium, it says it made sense to try and reduce 
this cost. It took longer than expected for the finance provider to put the agreement in place. 
County says this was due to the impact of the pandemic, also that additional checks were 
required in Ts case. This was because T had changed address in the last three years. 
Ive seen the letter the finance company sent to T dated 29 July 2021. This says T needs to 
sign a credit agreement, which can be done online. The letter confirms the first payment will 
be £844.52 and it will be collected on 9 August. This payment incorporates the first two 
months premium instalments. It says subsequent instalments are to be paid on the third of 
each month. 
In its correspondence to County, T disputes the reasons it gave for the delays in setting up 
the Direct Debit payments. It says the previous year was worse for Covid restrictions and it 
had no issues. T says the finance company want to take three payments inside a month and 
it was given very little notice of this. 
I can understand that T wanted the finance to be agreed and the Direct Debit instruction set 
up earlier. Also, that it wanted the regular collection on a different date, which it says had 
been agreed with County. 
In its response to T on 11 August 2021 County says its working with the finance company to 
come to a favourable agreement. This includes moving the regular collection date. It says an 
alternative finance company will be looked at if a suitable arrangement cant be reached. 
County explained the policy wasnt at risk of cancellation, whilst these points were being 
sorted out.
County emailed T the following day to say a single payment will now be collected on 23 
August 2021, which covers the July instalment of the premium. It says the remaining 
payments are to be collected on the 15th of each month as requested. I can see that T 
responded and confirmed funds would be available or if not it would contact the finance 
company directly to make the payment. 
I can see the amount due to be collected in August by Direct Debit was rejected by Ts bank. 
I acknowledge Ts comments that it was the delays in County applying for finance that led to 
it not being able to pay the premiums it owed. 
Having thought about this, and having considered the evidence, I dont agree that County is 
at fault for T not having funds available. It took longer than expected for the finance 
arrangement to be agreed. This delayed setting up the Direct Debit arrangement. However, 
T required insurance cover from the beginning of July 2021. So, it was necessary for cover 
to start at this time. The collection of payments didnt align with the start of the policy. But the 
funds shouldve been available.    
When T raised concerns about paying more than one instalment at once, County arranged 
for the initial payment to be limited to one months instalment. This was to be collected in 
August, which T agreed. I think this was reasonable. 
I note Ts comments that an unexpected payment was taken from its account, which left 
insufficient funds to pay the insurance. Also, that it didnt have internet banking and the 
owners were on holiday at the time the payment failed. T says it wasnt notified of the 
missing payment until it received a seven-day notice of cancellation. 
I acknowledge Ts comments regarding the circumstances at the time. But ultimately it was 
Ts responsibility to have the funds available in its bank account to cover the cost of its 
insurance policy. I think County provided reasonable assistance when T raised concerns 
with the payment it initially wanted to collect. But County isnt responsible for Ts failure to ensure funds were available to cover the cost of its insurance. So, I dont think it treated T 
unfairly here.
Vehicles covered 
T raised concerns that not all vehicles were showing on the MID. Although it had provided 
details of these vehicles to be covered under its policy. County gave an explanation that 
occasionally vehicles dont show on the database for various reasons. This can include 
human error or I.T. issues. But it says all Ts vehicles were covered as requested under its 
policy. 
I can see a list of Ts vehicles was included in an email exchange between it and County 
prior to inception of the policy. Ive not seen evidence that shows County failed to act 
appropriately to ensure all Ts vehicles were covered. No loss has occurred in respect of a 
lack of cover. So, although I can understand Ts concern when viewing the MID - I dont think 
County has been shown to have done anything wrong here. 
SDP
I acknowledge what T says about the lack of cover should it have driven the car that wasnt 
insured for this purpose. 
County says the vehicle in question was registered SORN at the time  meaning it couldnt 
be driven on public roads. It says this is why the option of SDP cover for this vehicle wasnt 
given. 
Based on what Ive read there was no requirement for SDP cover for this vehicle. So, I dont 
think County did anything wrong here. 
Carriage of goods
T says the cover it needed was for vehicles being towed, on the back of the beavertail. It 
says a different broker told it the cover it needed was included under the main cover it had 
with its current insurer. So, this additional cover was superfluous. 
I note County sent an email to T on 22 June 2021 that said the policy covered vehicles in 
transit as well as vehicles at the premises and for public liability. County says T responded to 
say this seemed a good price for what was covered under the policy. It also says T was 
provided with policy documentation. It was asked to check this information to ensure 
adequate cover was in place. County says T didnt contact it to raise any concerns with the 
cover it had agreed. 
If the cover provided wasnt needed - the opportunity to identity and highlight this was when 
the policy documentation was provided. Its reasonable to expect that T would read the policy 
documentation to ensure it was suitable for its business needs. Although I acknowledge Ts 
argument, clear information was sent detailing the cover it had agreed, prompting it to check 
this met with the requirements of its business. Based on what Ive read Im not persuaded 
that County did anything wrong here.  
Handling of the policy
I acknowledge Ts comments that Countys part in the handling of its policy was poor and 
resulted in a number of problems. But having considered the evidence, I dont think its 
shown this to be the case. Its clear the finance agreement took longer to arrange than would be expected. But as 
discussed, County isnt responsible for the actions of the finance company. I think it acted 
reasonably to assist T when issues arose. Im not persuaded by Ts argument that County 
treated it unfairly.
Having considered all of this I dont think County treated T unfairly. So, I cant reasonably 
ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman