DRN-3322761
The complaint
Mr H complains Metro Bank PLC closed his accounts without any explanation. He is also 
unhappy he had to attend the branch and make numerous calls in order to access his funds. 
What happened
Mr H says he had a number of accounts with Metro Bank which were closed by Metro Bank 
without any explanation. Mr H says he tried to get the accounts reopened without success. 
Mr H says the closing of the accounts caused him great difficulty and contributed to the 
problems he had with his mental health. He says Metro Bank were aware of the issues he 
was having at the time the accounts were closed. He also says he wasnt notified his 
accounts were closing. 
In December 2020 Mr H contacted Metro Bank to say his friend transferred £200 to one of 
his accounts after it had closed. Mr H says he was told the money would have bounced back 
to his friends account, and then was told he would need to go into the branch to collect the 
funds. Mr H says he had to chase Metro Bank for his money on numerous occasions; both in 
person and on the telephone. Mr H says he spent 50 hours trying to deal with the matter. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the service provided and so he complained to Metro Bank. Metro 
Bank didnt uphold the part of the complaint related to the account closing. It said it provided 
Mr H with the appropriate notice to close the account and its decision to close the account 
was correct. Metro Bank upheld part of Mr Hs complaint regarding the service received 
when trying to access his funds and trying to resolve his complaint. Metro Bank offered Mr H 
£50 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Mr H didnt accept the offer and 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into things and thought Metro Bank had written to Mr H about the 
account closure and acted in line with the account terms and conditions. The investigator 
accepted the service from Metro Bank could have been better in relation to the funds in the 
account but felt its offer of £50 was fair. Mr H doesnt accept the view and says the offer is 
not enough to reflect the amount of time spent chasing Metro Bank. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think Metro Bank has already done enough to try and resolve this 
complaint. 
I do understand Mr Hs strength of feeling about the banks decision to close his accounts. 
However, his agreement with Metro Bank entitled either party to terminate banking facilities. 
My role here is to see whether Metro Bank have acted fairly and reasonably, in line with its 
terms and conditions. 
Closing the accounts 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. Before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way which complies 
with the terms and conditions of that account. So my starting point is the terms and 
conditions which would have been agreed at the outset of opening the account. Within them 
is the following, we may suspend, stop, or reduce a service, facility or an account and it 
sets out a number of reasons where it is able to do this. The terms go on to say Metro Bank 
will take reasonable steps to reduce the inconvenience to the customer by, for example, 
giving two months notice of the closure. And that is what Metro Bank did here. 
Metro Bank wrote to Mr H on 16 March 2017 at the address held on its file to notify him it 
was closing his accounts. In the letter the Bank said the accounts would be closed on 17 
May 2017. The letter explained what Mr H would need to do regarding the accounts. Mr H 
says he had moved to a new house and was on holiday when the letter was sent. He says 
he only received the letter when he went to collect his post from his old premises. But since 
Metro Bank were unaware Mr H no longer lived at the address it cant be held responsible 
for Mr H receiving the letter late.
I appreciate Mr H would like Metro Bank to provide a detailed explanation as to why it 
decided to close his accounts. But Metro Bank is under no obligation to do this.
I can see and understand that Mr H would have found this matter frustrating and he was left 
without an explanation about why the accounts closed. But ultimately Metro Bank was 
entitled to close the accounts and acted within the terms and conditions. As such dont think 
it acted unfairly. 
Account access
Ive looked at what happened in this case and at the timeline of events. Mr Hs account was 
closed in 2017. In 2020 Mr H found out a friend had transferred £200 to his closed account. 
In December 2020 Mr H contacted Metro Bank about the funds. I can see from the evidence 
provided to me that Mr H was provided with inconsistent information regarding the funds, 
and he had to attend the branch on a number of occasions, as well as make numerous 
telephone calls. I can see Mr H collected his money on 17 April 2021.  Metro Bank accept 
the service provided to Mr H fell short here and offered £50 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I can see M H is very frustrated the bank have chosen to close the account without 
explanation, and then caused him inconvenience with poor service when he was trying to 
resolve the issues with the transferred funds. But my role here is to determine this complaint 
based on what is fair and reasonable in all circumstances. Having looked at all the evidence 
I cant say Metro Bank did anything wrong in closing the account. And it accepted the service 
issues and offered Mr H £50 to reflect the inconvenience caused. I think this is a fair amount 
given the circumstances of the compliant. 
My final decision
Metro Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this 
is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr H £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman