DRN-2180775
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly charged him an early repayment charge 
(ERC) when he wanted to port his mortgage. Mr J wants the ERC of £3,500 refunded.
What happened
Mr J took out a mortgage with Barclays in May 2018. Mr J was buying a property for 
£160,000 and got a loan of £124,156.72. Mr J got a rate of 1.83% fixed until 30 April 2020. 
Mr J would have to pay an ERC if he redeemed the mortgage before April 2020 but could 
port the mortgage product to another mortgage if Barclays gave him a mortgage on a new 
property. Because of problems with antisocial neighbours, at the end of 2019 Mr J decided 
to sell his property and looked to buy another one for £245,000. Mr J was selling his property 
first and looked to get information from Barclays about the length of time that he would be 
allowed to take out a mortgage on a new property. Part of this dispute relates to the length of 
time that Barclays told Mr J he had to allow him to port the mortgage product to another 
property he was buying. Mr J then applied for a new mortgage with Barclays. There was a 
delay in the valuation and then the valuation was for £10,000 less than the sale price. So, 
the application didnt proceed further, and Mr J had to pay the ERC.
Barclays agreed that it had given Mr J mixed messages in respect of the time available to 
port his mortgage product but that it had fairly refused the new mortgage that Mr J wanted. It 
offered Mr J compensation of £100. Our investigators view was that the amount offered to 
Mr J as a result of the mixed messages should be £200 but didnt agree with Mr J that 
Barclays had unfairly refused his mortgage. Mr J disagreed saying in summary that its not 
the valuation that has caused the situation to occur but Barclays behaviour around it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues here. Firstly, the failure by Barclays to give Mr J proper advice about 
the time within which he could port his mortgage product. Secondly whether Barclays had 
unfairly prevented Mr J porting his mortgage product to his new property. 
Ive listened to a number of calls between Mr J and Barclays mortgage advisers. I formed the 
opinion that Mr J was quite straightforward and genuine in seeking out mortgage information 
to keep himself right. I noted that Barclays provided confusing information that in certain 
circumstances he could extend the period to transfer the mortgage product to 180 days 
rather than 90 days after the redemption of the mortgage. I found this unnecessarily 
confusing for Mr J who was clearly reaching out for direction from the Barclays advisers and 
agree that in this respect this complaint should be upheld and that the £200 compensation 
suggested by our investigator is appropriate for that part of the complaint.  But I also formed 
the view that in December 2019 when the property with the mortgage was sold that Mr J was 
aware that he had 90 days from the sale of the property on 12 December to take out a new 
mortgage on a new property. So, I dont believe that any mix-up about the time period would 
have prevented Mr J getting a new mortgage with Barclays
The other issue - which Mr J describes as the crux of the complaint - is that after some delay 
- the surveyor submitted a valuation on the last day of the 90-day period for £10,000 less 
than the sale price and Mr J disagrees with the valuation. 
Barclays doesnt have the expertise to value properties. It instructs surveyors to do that and, 
in this case, I see that it engaged a valuer who was a member of the RICS. That surveyor 
gave a valuation of £235,000 which was less than the proposed purchase price. The valuer 
considered that the purchase price was too high as it wasnt supported by comparable sales 
evidence in the area. Barclays, as it engaged an expert, is entitled to rely on the advice of 
that expert. Mr J disagrees with the surveyors opinion as he understands that the 
comparables used by the surveyor were from 2018 and inaccurate.  But the surveyor doesnt 
come within our jurisdiction as the firm isnt providing a financial service so Im unable to 
review the fairness of the valuation. All I can look at is how Barclays acted. 
Barclays policy is to rely on the experts opinion and has a limited appeal process which 
seems to be based on picking up perverse valuations where there is a variance of more than 
25% between the applicants estimated value and its surveyors valuation. Otherwise, its 
policy is to rely on the valuation supplied by the valuer. Although Mr J may disagree with that 
as it meant that he was unable to purchase the property and so port the mortgage, I dont 
consider that its unfair for Barclays to rely on the opinion of an expert. Its also entitled to set 
a policy when such a valuation can be appealed which it appears to have followed. As I say 
above, its clear to me that Mr J was a genuine customer seeking advice from Barclays. But I 
cant agree that it was the advice that caused Mr J to lose the mortgage but rather that the 
surveyor didnt value the property at the price Mr J was willing to pay for the property. But 
thats not Barclays fault and I cant fairly find against Barclays because of that.  For that 
reason, I cant fairly uphold that part of the complaint.  
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr J £200. 
My final decision
I uphold this decision in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to compensate Mr J for his 
trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman