DRN-4041024
The complaint
Ms D and Mr F complain about Santander UK plcs handling of their application for a change 
of borrowers and a term extension on their mortgage. They say it made mistakes, caused 
avoidable delay, and failed to communicate with them.
What happened
Mr F and Ms D are father and daughter. They jointly owned the property Ms D lives in, with a 
joint mortgage with Santander.
In May 2020, they had taken a two-year tracker interest rate product, which was due to end 
in May 2022. The mortgage was being paid on an interest-only basis and was due to come 
to the end of its term and be repaid in full in May 2022.
In February 2022, Mr F wrote to Santander explaining the familys situation and saying Ms D 
may be in a position to take sole ownership of the property. He asked for a reply and advice. 
Santander wrote back to Mr F at the mortgaged property address, saying it required him to 
speak to one of its mortgage advisers in order to apply for a change of parties. It provided 
contact details.
Ms D went on to make an application for a mortgage in her sole name. However, her 
employment contract was short-term and didnt meet Santanders lending criteria. She 
provided various documents over a period of months but, in August 2022, Santander 
declined her application.
In the meantime, the interest rate Mr F and Ms D were paying on their mortgage had 
increased significantly, resulting in much higher monthly payments. In November 2022, the 
mortgage was repaid following a remortgage to another lender.
Mr F and Ms D had by then complained. They said they hadnt agreed to pay a higher, 
punitive interest rate, Santander had made numerous mistakes and caused avoidable delay, 
and they had lost out as a result. They said they had also been caused considerable 
inconvenience and worry.
Santander firstly said it hadnt received Mr Fs letters. It then said in July that it had in fact 
received them, and it had replied. It also said it had explained the process Mr F and Ms D 
should follow in order to make changes to the mortgage, and apologised if they had faced 
long wait times to get through by phone. It had declined Ms Ds application in April because 
Ms D didnt meet its employment lending criteria, and in June Ms D had re-applied as her 
employment contract was changing. That application was ongoing, and it couldnt offer a 
new interest rate product in the meantime as the mortgage term had expired. It apologised 
for its poor handling of the complaint and paid Mr F and Ms D £250 by way of compensation.
Mr F and Ms D referred the complaint to us. Our Investigator concluded that Santander had 
made some mistakes, but that it had told Mr F and Ms D what it needed in order to go ahead 
with the application, and it hadnt caused unreasonable delay. He said £250 compensation 
was fair in the circumstances.
Mr F and Ms D didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. They said 
Santander had taken from February until October 2022 to consider Ms Ds application, and 
that was far too long  whereas it took the new lender Ms D had applied to in October 2022 
just five working days to complete the necessary checks on her financial situation. They also 
said they had considerable difficulty contacting Santander throughout the whole process, 
and the mortgage payments on the Santander mortgage increased dramatically through this 
time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator did, for broadly 
the same reasons.
I can understand why Mr F and Ms D thought there would be plenty of time to make the 
changes they wanted to the mortgage before their existing interest rate product and term 
ended. However, this wasnt a straightforward product switch. Ms D wanted to take on the 
mortgage on her own, as well as to extend the term and take a new interest rate product. All 
of that meant that she effectively had to make a new application and Santander had to carry 
out a full assessment of her financial situation. That was entirely reasonable and in line with 
regulatory requirements: Santander needed to be satisfied that Ms D would be able to afford 
the mortgage on her own. 
The reason Santander declined Ms Ds application was the short-term nature of her 
employment contract, which Santander discussed with her a number of times. Ms D 
provided Santander with all the information it asked her for, but it nevertheless declined her 
application. Having considered its records of the application, I dont find I can conclude that 
Santanders decision not to agree a mortgage was unfair. Its records show that it applied its 
usual criteria to Ms Ds application. Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and 
to decide for itself whether it will lend and if so on what terms.
Ms D began her mortgage application in early March 2022. Santanders records say it told 
her at the outset, on 4 March, that it was: 
Unable to proceed with app[lication] at this stage  customer aware
She is on a new 6 month contract with her employer. It hasnt been renewed yet
She is having a meeting soon with her employer where they will discuss the possibility of 
making it permanent.
This indicates that Santander was clear with Ms D early on that it had concerns about her 
employment status, and I note that there were multiple discussions about her contract in 
subsequent months. Ms D did go ahead with her application in March. Santander declined it 
in late April 2022. Ms D then re-applied in late June 2022, once she had an extension to her 
employment contract. Santander told Ms D it couldnt take her application forward in late 
August 2022, because she still didnt meet its criteria.
Ive noted what Mr F has said about another mortgage lender having completed its checks 
on Ms Ds finances in just five working days. It doesnt necessarily follow, though, that I can 
fairly find Santander should have done the same  different lenders have different lending 
criteria. And, as Ive already said, I think Santander made clear at an early stage that the 
outcome of Ms Ds application wasnt guaranteed and that her employment contract was an 
issue. Overall, I dont find that Santander caused unreasonable delay, or that I can fairly require it 
to compensate Mr F and Ms D for the increased mortgage payments they had to make 
following the expiry of the interest rate product they had taken in 2020. Our Investigator was 
right to say that a new product couldnt be agreed without an extended term being agreed 
first. The 2020 mortgage offer was clear that the two-year variable rate of 1.19% above Bank 
of England base rate would end on 24 May 2022, and that after that interest would be 
charged at Santanders Follow-on Rate: also a variable rate but a higher one than the initial 
two-year discounted rate. This is what Mr F and Ms D agreed to in accepting the interest rate 
product in 2020 so, given that the mortgage was still outstanding in May 2022, the interest 
rate appears to have operated as it should.
I find that Santander made mistakes in this case, including with one of Ms Ds appointments 
with it, writing to Mr F at Ms Ds address, and wrongly saying it hadnt received Mr Fs letters. 
But I dont find that it caused significant or unreasonable delay to Ms Ds application, and its 
records show that it called Ms D on a number of occasions in connection with her application 
 it wasnt entirely reactive in this process. 
I consider that Ms D and Mr F should fairly receive some compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience and frustration they experienced but, in all the circumstances, I find that the 
£250 Santander has already paid is a fair and reasonable amount  so I make no further 
direction.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has done enough to put things right. I make no 
order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman