DRN-1632084
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by a third party. But Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale and by 
extension this complaint. To keep things simple, Ive only referred to Allianz in my decision.
background
Mrs T took out an account card in 1990 in a store. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy. This would have covered her if she was off work because of accident, sickness or if 
she lost her job. 
The policy would have cost 64p for every £100 of Mrs Ts outstanding monthly balance. On 
making a successful claim it would have paid out 15% of that balance each month until she 
returned to work or the balance was paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs T disagreed with this view 
and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
I've first of all looked at whether Mrs T was given a choice to have the PPI policy. Mrs T says 
she wasn't and also that she wouldn't have ticked a box on the application form to have it. I 
have seen the application form that Mrs T has made reference to. I can see on the form that 
PPI is described as an optional requirement and also that Mrs T has signed the form at the 
bottom agreeing to have it. Ive also thought about what both parties have told me and taken 
into account what we know about these types of sales at the time to make my decision. On 
balance, based on the sales documentation and what i have read about the sale, I think its 
more likely Mrs T would have been given a choice and she could have declined it if she 
didnt want the cover. 
I dont think Mrs T would have received advice about the PPI. So as Allianz didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs T it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But it still needed to 
give Mrs T enough information to allow her to make an informed decision about whether or 
not to buy the policy. Its possible not all the information Allianz gave to Mrs T was as clear as it should have 
been. But even if she had been given clearer or better information I still think she would have 
bought the cover. 
I say this because Mrs T was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt seem she wouldve been 
affected by any of the exclusions or limitations of the policy which might have made it more 
difficult to make a successful claim, such as unusual employment circumstances or a       
pre-existing medical condition. 
Mrs T says shed have 3 months sick pay and savings of 12 months pay that she could have 
used if she became too unwell to work. But the policy wouldve paid out until Mrs Ts 
outstanding balance at the time of the claim was repaid, or until she went back to work. So 
I think the policy couldve been useful to her if things went wrong as it would have paid out 
for an extended period or cleared the balance. 
I also think the cover was affordable. So I cant see that clearer information about the costs 
and benefit wouldve put Mrs T off taking the policy.
So overall I dont think better information wouldve changed Mrs Ts mind about the PPI. And 
I dont think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman