DRN-2626221
The complaint
Mr R complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a landlords home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had a property that he let to a tenant  a young mother with small children. He had a 
landlords home emergency policy for the property. Astrenska was the insurer responsible 
for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Astrenska, I include engineers and others insofar as 
I hold Astrenska responsible for their actions.
On 19 November 2020, the tenant reported that the central heating boiler wasnt providing 
heat or hot water. Mr R called Astrenska for help. It inspected the boiler and declined the 
claim. It said the boiler was Beyond Economical Repair (BER). On about 20 November 
2020, Mr R complained to Astrenska that it should contribute to the cost of a boiler.
Within about a week, Mr R got a heating company to install a new boiler at a cost of about 
£2,000.00
By a final response dated 4 December 2020, Astrenska turned down the complaint. It quoted 
the policy limit of £500.00 and a policy term that excluded replacement of any boiler if repair 
or reinstatement is not possible due to the non-availability of parts. Mr R brought his 
complaint to us in mid-December 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Astrenska was unfair in declining Mr Rs claim.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Different engineers have expressed different views in other cases.
So Astrenskas engineer could give whatever view he liked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy with Astrenska provided that it would remove an Emergency including an 
unexpected event that would leave the property without Main Services. That included loss 
of the main source of heating or hot water where no alternative exists.
Some home emergency insurance policies exclude boiler repairs where the boiler is BER. 
Some policies provide a contribution or a discount towards a new boiler. Mr Rs policy with 
Astrenska didnt contain such provisions. But Astrenska has said there was a policy limit of 
£500.00. Mr R hasnt disputed that. So I find that the policy didnt cover repairs that were 
going to be more expensive than £500.00.
Astrenska received a report as follows:
Boiler is in very poor state, initially found that the fan is running rough and not 
making aps. Inner burner door seal looking shabby but just about passable. Pcb has 
heat damage could be faulty, wiring has rodent damage throughout. Droppings found 
in pcb cover. Pcb cover also been bodged. Diverter diaphragm leaking.
Replace all of the before further tests of repair is to be done. Strongly recommending 
BER as so many parts needed.
From that, I find it likely that the boiler needed a new fan, printed circuit board, wiring and 
diverter diaphragm. And I find that the engineer thought the cost of all that meant that the 
boiler was BER.
Astrenska didnt get an estimate of the costs of repair. It has told us that no quote was 
sought or provided.
And theres no evidence that any of the necessary parts were unavailable. So the final 
response was incorrect to quote the policy exclusion relating to unavailability of parts. I dont 
condone such a mistake in a final response.
However, I find it more likely than not that the costs of parts and labour to repair the boiler 
wouldve been more than £500.00. In any event, I cant say that Astrenska was incorrect that 
the boiler was BER. Mr R hasnt provided any evidence that the boiler wouldve been 
economic to repair.
Mr R has reminded us that there were pandemic restrictions in place. But he didnt pay 
Astrenskas engineer to install the new boiler. He contacted a different heating company. 
That company mustve looked at the old boiler and had a discussion with Mr R before 
replacing it. So I consider that Mr R had an opportunity for a second opinion on his boiler. 
And he took the decision that the time had come for him to get a new boiler for the property 
and for the tenant. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Astrenska to contribute 
towards the cost of the new boiler.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman