DRN-3797810
Complaint summary and background
Mrs W is unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited is refusing to meet a claim for damage under a 
sofa warranty policy. 
Mrs Ws pet was accidently left out of its cage, and it caused damage to her sofas and their 
recliner cables. 
Amtrust said the damage wouldnt be covered as it did not happen in one incident and that 
damage caused by pets is excluded by the policy. Amtrust has cited the following policy 
exclusion when declining the claim.
Damage caused by pets biting or chewing the item and any scratching which is not limited 
to a single incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
Policy documents should be clear and unambiguous in their meaning. I dont believe 
the above term is explicitly clear as to what is excluded as it could be interpreted in 
different ways. Amtrust has interpreted it to mean that any damage caused by biting 
or chewing is excluded, but one scratch would be covered. 
However, the use of the word and in this sentence brings into question whether this 
is the correct interpretation. And is a joining word, which arguably means the 
condition not limited to a single incident would also apply to the first part of the 
sentence. So, the term could also be interpreted as any biting, chewing or scratching, 
not limited to a single incident, would not be covered. 
Amtrust initially argued that the damage overall wasnt caused in a single incident, as 
the animal had damaged different items in individual actions. However, it later agreed 
the action of the animal being left out could be classed as a single incident. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I agree here that it is the action of the animal being left out which 
should be considered as the incident. 
As the term is ambiguous, it is usual for it to be interpreted in favour of the consumer. 
As insurers should be clear in what cover they are willing, or as in this instance, not 
willing to provide. So in this instance it would mean the damage Mrs W is claiming for 
would be covered as it happened in a single incident. 
The only damage I think Amtrust would not need to cover is the damage to the 
recliner cables. This would be otherwise be excluded under the policy as it relates to 
electronic equipment. 
For the reasons above, I do not think Amtrust has fairly declined the claim and I uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint.  
Putting things right
To put things right Amtrust should now deal with the damage claimed for, except the recliner 
cables. It should arrange for any repair, replacement, or settlement to be made in line with 
the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited. I direct 
it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman