DRN-4002652
The complaint
Mr J complains that KW Investment Management Limited (Kingswood) sold some of his 
shares without his agreement.
What happened
Mr J held around 600,000 shares in a company Ill call A. In October 2022, he emailed his 
broker at Kingswood about selling some of his A shares. He said:
Id like to test the market for liquidity of [A] shares. Last time we did this we offered the 
whole tranche circa 663,000 shares as offering too little to the market garnered no response. 
Please can you contact me so we can discuss this further.
Kingswood responded, telling Mr J his normal broker was away, and saying Considering the 
size of the trade would you consider starting with the sale of 100,000 shares to see if we can 
get that away?
Mr J confirmed hed like to [put] 100,000 shares on the market to test the response.
His broker then said Ive put that good-til-cancel execution-only sell order on for you for 
tomorrows open.
The following morning Kingswood contacted Mr J to say it had sold 100,000 of his A shares 
at a price of 18p. 
Mr J complained. He said he hadnt wanted to sell the shares, and would definitely not have 
done so at the price of 18p. He said hed wanted to repeat the previous strategy whereby he 
went to the market to see if there was an interest, he then told me what the market was 
prepared to offer and only when I received that information do I make a decision.
Kingswood didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the broker had confirmed an order 
was going to be placed when the market opened, and Mr J hadnt questioned or contradicted 
it. It explained it didnt have the same relationships with other brokers which had previously 
enabled it to give Mr J some idea of what prices were being quoted for particular sized 
trades before he entered an order.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service, and said he should have received what he 
considered the market price on the day in question (which was 22p) or that he should get his 
shares back.
One of our investigators looked into things. She thought Kingswood was wrong to have 
placed the trade it did. She was satisfied based on emails showing previous occasions Mr J 
had asked to test the market that he would reasonably have expected Kingswood to come 
back to him with a market quote before executing an order. If it had done so, she thought Mr 
J wouldnt have placed the order to sell 100,000 shares at 18p. She said he should be given 
his shares back, subject to Mr J sending the proceeds of the original sale back to 
Kingswood.
Kingswood maintained it had acted on a legitimate instruction from Mr J, and had given him 
clear information about the order it was placing on his behalf. It asked for an ombudsman to 
decide the matter. 
Mr J agreed with the investigators conclusions. But he said he should get either the 
difference between the 18p at which his shares were sold, and the price he says he would 
have dealt at that day, which was 22p. Or he should get the total loss he crystallised by 
selling the shares, which was the difference between 18p and the price hed paid for the 
shares, which was 78p.
After the complaint was passed to me, I wrote to the parties to explain I thought Mr J should 
be compensated differently to our investigators suggestion. I thought, on balance, that Mr J 
would have sold his shares at 22p had Kingswood acted differently and confirmed what 
orders he could place on the basis of what information from the market. So I said Kingswood 
should compensate him on that basis.
Mr J again argued that he ought to receive the difference between the sale price and what 
hed paid for the shares, before accepting my proposed redress. 
Kingswood continued to disagree it ought to compensate Mr J at all. It also said Mr J had 
mentioned wanting a trade reversal  and said that if I was going to uphold the complaint this 
was the right way to remedy things. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint, in my view, arises from a miscommunication between Mr J and Kingswood. I 
dont think Kingswood understood what Mr J was asking it to do when he first emailed it 
about his A shares. And I dont think Mr J fully understood what Kingswood was saying it 
was going to do as a result  place an active order in the market to sell some of his shares. 
As a regulated firm, Kingswood needed to ensure it had regard for Mr Js interests and 
treated him fairly. And it needed to ensure its communications with Mr J were fair, clear, and 
not misleading. Im not satisfied Kingswood treated Mr J fairly here. Ill explain why.
Mr J told Kingswood he wanted to test the market and, when agreeing to offer 100,000 
shares, that he wanted to test the response to that volume. In his initial email, Mr J clearly 
referred to last time we did this. Ive considered the emails of December 2021 and January 
2022 which appear to refer to Mr Js previous conversations with Kingswood about his A 
shares.
Initially Kingswood say to Mr J theres an order in the system to sell his holding at a price of 
no less than 24.7p.  It goes on to say have asked likewise if the market makers can keep 
us informed of any close bids of within a penny or so to pass on for your consideration.
A few weeks later, Kingswood tell Mr J the best price its been offered for his holding was 21p 
per share. Mr J says he isnt willing to accept that, and after some further back and forth he 
tells Kingswood to offer 23p to the market. Theres no interest from Kingswoods 
brokers/market makers, and so the order is cancelled. So Kingswood ought to have known 
that last time Mr Js attempt to test the market involved correspondence between them 
based on feedback Kingswood had gathered from market participants. I think it would have 
been reasonable for Mr J to expect the same thing here. I understand this sort of correspondence was no longer possible because of changes in 
Kingswoods relationships with its brokers. But it hadnt told Mr J that. So I think, having 
regard for Mr Js interests, Kingswood ought to have known Mr J was expecting some kind 
of price information from it before placing a firm order in the market. I think it therefore ought 
to have ensured both that Mr J understood what it could and couldnt do, and that it 
understood what Mr J was instructing it to do. 
Ive considered carefully Kingswoods argument that Mr J was experienced in the financial 
markets, and that he ought to have understood Kingswood had placed a live order for him 
based on its email that said Ive put that good-til-cancel execution-only sell order on for 
you. Ive given weight to Mr Js experience, but Im persuaded by the evidence of the 
previous interactions that Mr J would, in these particular circumstances, have had a 
reasonable expectation of more correspondence from Kingswood (with a quote from a 
broker/market maker) before he gave an instruction to deal.
I say this also because Kingswoods email telling Mr J it was placing an order for him didnt 
give a price. In fact, in the discussions in October 2022 about testing the market with 
100,000 shares, Mr J at no stage tells Kingswood at what price to set his order.
Price is clearly key to the January 2022 conversation about selling his shares. Mr J is asking 
what prices the market is willing to pay, and where he gives instructions to place offers it is 
at specific prices. I think it was reasonable for Mr J to have thought Kingswood hadnt yet 
taken a dealing instruction from him when he hadnt given it a price at which to deal.
Kingswood also described the order it was placing as a good-til-cancelled order. These are 
generally limit orders  with a price being set as the limit at which the client is willing to 
buy/sell, and the order sitting in the market until it is either executed, or cancelled. If this was 
a limit order, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Kingswood to have placed it without 
agreeing a limit price with Mr J (which it seems to have done when placing the order in 
December 2021). If it was a market order, that would be both unusual for a good-til-
cancelled order and out of keeping with Mr Js previous orders with Kingswood to sell these 
shares. I therefore think it would have been fair and reasonable for Kingswood to ensure that 
Mr J understood he was placing an order to sell 100,000 shares at whatever price the 
market was willing to deal. Im not persuaded it did so.
Taking all this into account I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Kingswood to have sold 
Mr Js shares in October 2022. It therefore remains for me to decide how it should put things 
right.
Putting things right
Firstly, I dont think it would be fair for Mr J to be compensated based on his purchase price 
of the shares. To receive that amount would put him in the position as if hed sold the shares 
at 78p. Between October 2022 and now A shares havent traded anywhere close to that 
price, but have been significantly lower. I therefore dont think Kingswoods error deprived Mr 
J of the opportunity to sell his shares at 78p. Its error removed his ability to decide what to 
do with those 100,000 shares. But those choices were limited to either keeping the shares, 
or selling them at some other price between October 2022 and now.
Kingswood have argued Mr J would have kept the shares, as in one email during his 
complaint he says hed accept a reverse trade. I can confirm Ive considered that evidence, 
and havent discounted it. But where I cant say with certainty what Mr J would have done, I 
have to decide on balance what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
In his complaint form to our service Mr J says he wants Kingswood to either reinstate his shares or pay him the difference between 22p a share and 18p a share. As Kingswood has 
rightly pointed out, when corresponding about his complaint Mr J does say to Kingswood he 
wouldve accepted a reverse trade. Im also mindful that Mr J was, in January 2022, willing 
to instruct Kingswood to place orders in the market at around 25p and then at 23p a share 
for his A shares. 
Overall, I think Mr J was facing a large loss on his shares and was therefore reluctant to sell. 
But I think he was looking to sell at least some of them to realise some cash proceeds  hed 
come close to doing so in January 2022, and he knew broadly where the market price was in 
October 2022. I dont think hed have approached Kingswood at all if hed had no intention of 
selling any of the shares at any price near to the market price.
Had Kingswood confirmed, as I think it should, that Mr J could only gauge the market 
sentiment by placing an actual limit or market order for his shares, on balance I think its 
more likely than not that hed have placed a limit order for 100,000 shares. Based on his 
testimony since his complaint, and the orders hed placed earlier in 2022, Im satisfied hed 
have probably placed that order at around 22p. In any event I think this price represents a 
fair and reasonable approximation of the price hed have received for selling 100,000 shares.
So Kingswood must:
Calculate the amount Mr J would have received had his 100,000 shares in A been 
sold at 22p a share in October 2022.
Pay him the difference between that amount, and what he actually received for the 
sale of his A shares.
Pay 8% simple interest on this compensation figure, calculated from the date of the 
original sale to the date it settles this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct KW Investment  Management Limited 
to pay Mr J compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman