DRN-2477461
The complaint
Mr V has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to settle a third 
party claim and the costs of the claim. Mrs V who is a named driver under Mr Vs car 
insurance policy is representing him in his complaint. 
What happened
Mr V was involved in a collision with another car in January 2020 and he reported it to 
Admiral with the intention of making a claim. Mr V said he was wrongly in a right hand only 
lane and so he moved over to the left. As he did, he collided a low speed into the rear of a 
car in front.
Mr V decided not to claim for repairs to his car. However, in July 2020 Admiral received a 
claim from the third party for damage to their car and personal injury. 
In August 2020 Admiral settled the third partys claim. The renewal date of Mr Vs policy was 
in September 2020. As a result of the claim, his premium went up by around £1,500. 
Mrs V complained to Admiral on behalf of her son. She was unhappy it didnt request video 
evidence Mr V told Admiral he had before making its decision. Mrs V said this showed the 
damage to the third partys vehicle. She felt their claim was made late, and that Admiral had 
settled it too quickly without considering Mr Vs evidence. She thought the claim was 
exaggerated. 
Admiral said it had settled the claim reasonably and in line with the policy. It received 
evidence to support the claim for damage and injury. As Mr V was at fault for the incident, 
and the damage claimed for was in the same area as Mr V said, Admiral said it didnt need 
to see the video evidence. 
Mrs V asked us to look at her sons complaint. Our investigator didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs V didnt agree. In summary she isnt satisfied that we have reviewed evidence of the 
damage to the third partys vehicle and their claim for personal injury and whether the claim 
was proportionate and fair. Mr V says there are many discrepancies in Admirals settlement 
of the claim. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs policy has a term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies. This 
term allows the insurer to take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This means 
Admiral might make a decision Mr V doesnt agree with, but the policy entitles Admiral to do 
this. We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided the insurer can show it treated its 
customer fairly when applying it. 
I understand Mrs Vs strength of feeling about the documents and evidence Admiral has 
relied on when reaching its decision. And I understand that this is, in part, due to the fact that 
due to data protection law, third party information cannot be shared with Mr V. 
I can assure Mr and Mrs V that I have considered all of the evidence provided by both 
parties.
The third party submitted their claim for their losses to Admiral in July 2020. Mrs V says that 
due to the time that had passed, its possible the third party could have been involved in  
another incident  and so their claim might not be in relation to the incident in January 2020 
with Mr V. She feels the timeframe was too short to have the car assessed, and for repairs to 
be carried out and for Admiral to settle the claim.
This could be said with any gap in time: from the date of the incident to up to six years later, 
when a claim could still be submitted for vehicle damage. Its for Admiral to consider the 
evidence and make a decision as to whether to settle the claim or dispute the evidence if it 
has concerns. 
Mrs V says it doesnt make sense that between the third party submitting their claim and 
Admiral settling the claim this took only 35 days. She says it would have taken longer to 
arrange and approve repairs. 
A copy of the third party engineer report with photos shows that the inspection took place in 
February 2020. The repairs were itemised in March 2020 and are for the area of the car that 
Mr V told Admiral he collided with. The photos from the third party engineer show the same 
area of damage as the photos provided by Mrs V to us in February 2021 which Mr V took at 
the scene. 
So I think Admirals decision to rely on a report from an engineer who examined the vehicle 
when deciding how best to settle the claim was a fair approach to take. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Admiral not to request video footage from Mr V of the damage to the third 
party vehicle as the engineers report with photos was evidence of damage consistent with 
the incident. 
Admiral received the third party claim, including for personal injury (PI), via the Ministry of 
Justice pre action protocol for Low Value claims portal. The timescales to respond to a claim 
made this way are shorter and the costs are fixed which usually means they are lower. 
Admiral made an offer to settle the PI claim for £1,500 which was accepted. This meant the 
claim was settled more quickly than it might have been if Admiral had decided not to settle it 
via the portal. 
I understand Mrs V believes Admiral settled a PI claim for £4,000 but that isnt correct. The 
total claim costs include car hire costs, vehicle damage repairs, personal injury costs and the 
third party engineers fee. 
In response to the complaint, Admiral explained the following to Mrs V:
Within your escalation call you raised concerns that the third party may not have 
been injured as they were not displaying injuries at the scene. This would appear 
consistent with what a medical expert suggests that it takes up to 48hrs for 
symptoms to develop. There is no x-ray/test/MRI a claimant can undergo to prove 
they have a soft tissue injury, we must therefore rely upon the claimants recount of 
the symptoms they experienced.Im satisfied that Admiral properly considered the claim for PI and its decision to settle it was 
reasonable and in line with what the policy allows it to do.
Mr V has provided a case study of another claim made against his policy in October 2020 to 
demonstrate how long it can take to obtain evidence of personal injury and vehicle damage. I 
cannot consider this information in relation to this complaint. Each case is unique as to the 
circumstances and how long it takes to settle. 
It isnt in the insurers interests to settle a claim irrespective of the amount being claimed for. 
But Admiral can take the view that its better to settle a claim on the best terms possible than 
to risk significant costs in disputing a matter to potentially progress to court. As Mr V was at 
fault for the incident, I think Admirals decision to settle the third party claim for damage and 
losses consistent with the incident was reached in a reasonable way, given the evidence I 
received. So I cant criticise Admiral for settling the claim promptly. 
Mrs V says Admiral advised Mr V it wasnt worth making a claim. But she says if he had 
known his No Claims Discount (NCD) would be affected (by the third party claim), he would 
have claimed for repairs to his car. She feels Admiral didnt act fairly here. 
Admiral advised Mr V when he first reported the incident that it might not be economical for 
him to submit a claim for his damages when he first reported the claim  as the excess was 
likely to be higher than the costs of repair. 
However, I can see that on 5 February 2020 Admiral wrote to Mr V to ask him if he wanted to 
make a claim under his policy. And on 19 February 2020 it wrote;
Following the letter sent on 5th February 2020, your side of the claim has now been 
closed.
Please be advised the Third-Party side of the claim remains open. If the Third-Party 
claims on your policy for the repairs, the no claims bonus will be reduced.
However, if you do choose to claim on your insurance, please contact us, we can 
discuss garages and reopen your claim.
So I dont think Mrs V was prevented from claiming for damage to his car. Admiral explained 
that Mr V had the option to claim  and if he wanted to do so in future he could let Admiral 
know. And it explained that if the third party made a claim, his NCD would be reduced. 
Mr V says he paid £900 for repairs to his car. As the excess was more than the repair costs 
under the policy, the information Admiral gave Mr V when he reported the claim is the same. 
Mrs V believes Admiral looked to settle the claim in time for the renewal date, when Mr Vs 
premium went up significantly. However, while a claim is open it is treated as a fault claim in 
the insurance industry. So it would have had an impact on Mr Vs renewal premium even if 
Admiral hadnt settled the claim by then.
As a claim was made under the policy, this will have an impact on Mr Vs NCD and future 
premiums. I understand Mr V is very disappointed with the way Admiral settled the claim. But 
from the information available, Im satisfied Admiral treated Mr V fairly and as it would any 
other customer in his circumstances acted in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman