DRN-2922192
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) have unfairly applied a 
flood loading to their home insurance policy which has affected the price of their policy. 
Although Mr and Mrs Ws correspondence and telephone conversations have been with their 
bank, my decision will only refer to St Andrews as the underwriter of their home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have bought their home insurance policy with St Andrews through their bank 
since 2002. Theyd been generally comfortable with the premiums charged over the years. 
Theyve regularly engaged with the premiums by adding and taking away parts of the cover 
provided. But in recent years theyve been unhappy with the premiums charged after their 
property was identified as a flood risk. They first found out about this in August 2015.
Mr and Mrs W say their home isnt a flood risk. They provided some online information to 
evidence this. They also say theyve never experience flooding in their 41 years in the 
property. And that the position of their house is such that flooding couldnt occur. But they 
say that St Andrews havent taken this information into account when pricing their policy.
Mr and Mrs W say that the premiums for their home insurance policy have increased by 20% 
at each of the 2018, 2019 and 2020 renewals because of the perceived flood risk. In 
September 2019 Mr and Mrs W complained to St Andrews about the recent large premium 
increases. 
St Andrews confirmed that the premiums Mr and Mrs W had been charged were correct for 
the cover provided. They didnt uphold the complaint. So Mr and Mrs W brought the 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think that St Andrews had treated Mr 
and Mrs W unfairly or that they caused them to suffer a financial loss. So this complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
After our investigator issued her view, which had focused on the premium pricing over the 
years, Mr and Mrs W clarified that their complaint was that their home hadnt been correctly 
assessed by St Andrews in terms of the flood risk. I will cover this issue in my decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
This complaint is about how an insurer prices for a flood risk. Mr and Mrs W have said that 
although their home is in a postcode where some of the houses do have a flood risk, theirs 
does not. Theyve explained that an earth defence flood barrier was constructed in 2009 
along their road. And that this barrier has saved homes which once flooded. 
Mr and Mrs W have also explained that their home is up a slope and is built well back from 
the road. The nearest river is behind the flood defences. So they say they dont need any 
protection from flooding at their home due to the position of the property. 
St Andrews said that Mr and Mrs Ws home has been identified as a flood risk since at least 
2015. So the premiums theyve charged since then have reflected this risk. Theyve also said 
that no alternative products are available as they wouldnt insure the property if it was new 
business. 
St Andrews have confirmed that Mr and Mrs Ws home insurance policy was ceded to Flood 
Re and that theyd benefited from this since the 2016 renewal. They said that if the policy 
hadnt been ceded to Flood Re, the risk price would currently be much greater than it is now. 
Mr and Mrs W have said that their property is rated as low to very low flood risk on Flood Re. 
Ive confirmed this myself on the Flood Re website. Flood Re is a joint initiative between the 
Government and insurers. Its aim is to make flood cover part of home insurance policies 
more affordable. But Mr and Mrs W note that even with Flood Re in operation theyve not 
found home insurance any more competitive or affordable.
We asked St Andrews to explain what data they used that made them change the flood risk 
rating on Mr and Mrs Ws policy in 2015. 
St Andrews told us that the premium increase from 2014 to 2015 was the result of the 
switch from postcode rating to address point rating. They explained that the flood band rating 
applied to Mr and Mrs Ws policy increased significantly from 2014 to 2015 because of this 
change. 
Mr and Mrs W have said: All we are asking for is our home to be treated individually on this 
postcode and not as a flood risk because of its position. This is the reason for our complaint 
to you now and the insurance companies over years. 
Unfortunately, I consider that its fair for St Andrews to treat all properties within the same 
postcode the same. This is because its consistent to all customers. Whilst each property 
within a particular postcode wont necessarily be as close to a water source as all the other 
properties, policies of this nature arent underwritten on an individual basis.
To do so would involve carrying out a detailed assessment of each property to determine its 
precise risk. This would be extremely costly. So whilst Ive taken on board Mr and Mrs Ws 
point that their house isnt a flood risk, even though some of the houses with the same 
postcode are, I dont think the fact that St Andrews relies on the postcode as a rating factor 
is unfair.
I also dont consider it was unfair of St Andrews to change the way they assess flood risk. 
Insurers regularly re-assess their view of flood risk. And the way they do this has become 
increasingly sophisticated over recent years. Insurers now have complex flood modelling 
programmes which provide them with much more detail and analysis than ever before.
 
Theres no right or wrong way of assessing flood risk even though Mr and Mrs W may 
strongly disagree with St Andrews view. Theyre entitled to set a premium that they feel 
fairly reflects the risk of insuring Mr and Mrs Ws property against flood and other risks. St Andrews have explained to us why theyve increased Mr and Mrs Ws premium so 
significantly. Im satisfied that theyve shown how the flood risk factor has impacted their 
premium. Im also satisfied that they wouldve treated any of their customers with similar 
circumstances in the same way. Mr and Mrs W werent singled out and so I dont think 
theyve been treated unfairly by St Andrews. 
I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ws position. Theyve said However hard we try we 
just cannot get a better deal with this flood postcode now. This must be incredibly 
frustrating. But I dont consider that St Andrews have treated them unfairly or unreasonably.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with my provisional decision. They said they couldnt understand 
why St Andrews can say that their flood risk increased significantly because of the change 
from postcode rating to address point rating. They said address point rating was good news 
for them. And that their premiums only increased by 1% between 2014 and 2015 with this 
change.
Mr and Mrs W also said that their premiums first began to increase significantly when they 
were transferred into the Flood Re scheme in 2016. So they cant believe that St. Andrews is 
using that scheme correctly. They note that their premium has more than doubled between 
August 2015 and August 2020. So they dont understand how St. Andrews can state that 
their premium would be even higher without the help of Flood Re. 
They noted their understanding that Flood Re is a not-for-profit scheme set up to help 
customers who live in flood-prone areas to be able to purchase insurance at a lower price. 
And while they expected a little of the cost of the Flood Re scheme to be passed on to its 
customers, they dont feel theyve been treated at all fairly. They questioned whether the 
Flood Re scheme has been used properly for them. 
Mr and Mrs W also told us about the development work that was happening in their local 
area. In their view, this was proof that the permanent earth defence barrier thatd been built 
will protect the local area now and into the future. And that people have confidence in the 
flood defences. They noted that thered been no property flood claims on their road since the 
barrier had been built. So they questioned how St Andrews data could suggest that their 
flood risk was actually rising rapidly. 
Mr and Mrs W also questioned St Andrews definition of new business. And queried whether 
they would only now insure homes with no flood risk. They wanted to find out if there were 
other customers like them who felt they werent able to move to a different insurance 
company. 
St Andrews didnt respond to my provisional decision. But after receiving Mr and Mrs Ws 
response, we asked them a number of questions.
St Andrews underwriters responded to our questions on 12 July 2021. They said that the 
modelling of risk is a complex and evolving process, and this is particularly true for flood 
risk. They noted they use multiple sources to accurately model the risk of flood. They said: 
These sources include but are not limited to, data from third party companies that specialise 
in modelling flood risk, local authority flood maps and data from the Environment Agency. 
They said they assess risks based on their best view at each point in time.
St Andrews confirmed that they began to use address point rating in 2015. They said its use 
enables them to differentiate by individual property. They said that they acknowledged that 
Mr and Mrs W had a different perspective of the flood risk. But that they base their assessment of risk on multiple sources of data.
St Andrews said that Mr and Mrs W's flood risk premium didnt increase as a direct result of 
the Flood Re scheme. They noted that when their policy was transferred to that scheme, the 
flood risk element of the premium was capped in line with the agreed principles for Flood Re. 
They said that if the flood risk premium was lower than the capped amount, it wouldnt have 
been ceded. 
However, St Andrews also said that the flood risk premium is only one element of the total 
cost of insurance. Other changes they made also led to pricing changes between 2015 and 
2016 and later. Unfortunately, Im not able to detail what these were as the information is 
commercially sensitive. But, from the information Ive been given, I can see that Mr and Mrs 
Ws premium increases since 2016 have been in line with St Andrews general pricing policy. 
St Andrews also said that if Mr and Mrs Ws flood risk premium hadnt been capped or 
ceded to Flood Re then they would be paying more. 
St Andrews also confirmed that Flood Re insurance companies dont only insure homes with 
no flood risk, even if they were built before 2009. They said that since Flood Re launched, 
itd become easier to get a quote from an alternative insurer due to most high flood risk 
addresses being ceded into the scheme. But that its still up to individual insurers whether 
they quote for a particular risk or not. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W raised a number of questions following my provisional decision. 
They questioned why their premiums had gone up when address point rating came in, noting 
it shouldve been good news for them. St Andrews confirmed that address point rating 
hadnt been the cause of the large increases to their premium. But that they based their 
assessment of flood risk on multiple sources of data. They noted that other commercial 
actions theyd taken had also led to Mr and Mrs Ws premiums increasing. But that their 
premiums had been priced correctly in line with St Andrews pricing policy.
Mr and Mrs W also felt that the Flood Re scheme wasnt working properly for them. But St 
Andrews said that their policy had been correctly ceded to that scheme. And that theyd be 
paying a bigger premium if their policy hadnt been ceded to Flood Re. 
Mr and Mrs W also questioned St Andrews definition of new business, as they felt they were 
tied to them for their home insurance now. But St Andrews said that the existence of Flood 
Re meant that its now easier to get a quote from an alternative insurer than it was before 
that scheme was in place. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W havent found this to be the case.
Having considered all of Mr and Mrs Ws points and St Andrews responses, Im afraid Ive 
not seen anything that has changed my opinion. I know this will be disappointing, but I 
remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W are in an extremely frustrating position. I can see that from 
their perspective, their home isnt at risk from flooding. But from what theyve told me, the 
insurance market thinks it is. 
St Andrews have explained how theyve assessed the flood risk for Mr and Mrs Ws home. 
Theyve also explained how theyve priced the policy. Im satisfied that they wouldve treated any of their customers with similar circumstances in the same way. So Ive found nothing in 
their explanations that I can call unfair or unreasonable. 
So based on everything Ive seen, I cant ask St Andrews to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman