DRN-2348357
The complaint
Miss H complains that U K Insurance Limited declined her claim on her motor insurance 
policy following the theft of her car. She wants it to pay her claim. Miss H is represented in 
this matter by her friend, Miss B. 
What happened
Miss H said her car was stolen from her driveway and it was later recovered by the police 
burned out. UKI investigated Miss Hs claim and declined it as it said the theft couldnt have 
occurred as she described, i.e. without the use of her cars keys. UKI said her car couldnt be 
stolen except with the use of a key cut and programmed to the car. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had provided evidence that the car couldnt be stolen by being hotwired or by relay theft. 
Miss H still had both keys. So she thought UKI had reasonably decided that the car hadnt 
been stolen as reported, without the use of the keys. 
Miss B replied that she thought a key may have been copied to steal the car. She thought 
UKI was assuming that one of her keys had been used in the theft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI appointed an investigator to interview Miss H. It also had the cars two keys forensically 
investigated. I think the key report is clear that Miss Hs car could only be stolen by using a 
key cut and coded to her car. Miss H said she had the only two keys in her possession. 
There were no signs of a break in or forced entry into the car, such as broken glass, on her 
driveway. So I think UKI reasonably decided that the car wasnt stolen without use of the 
keys. 
Miss H lives in shared accommodation. Miss B thought someone may have taken a key from 
Miss Hs room, copied and replaced it, and later stolen the car. But Miss H said in her 
statement to the investigator that no one could access her room as she had a separate lock. 
Im not persuaded that some one went to the trouble of breaking into Miss Hs room, taking, 
copying and then replacing her key and later deciding to steal her car just to burn it out a 
short distance away. 
So I think UKI reasonably decided that the theft couldnt have happened as Miss H 
described, that is, without the use of her keys. And I think it was then fair and reasonable, 
and within the policy terms and conditions, for it to decline to deal with her claim. 
Miss H has also raised a concern that UKI would only release her proof of No Claims 
Discount (NCD) if she repaid its outlay for her car hire and recovery. But UKI has said that it 
hasnt asked Miss H for any repayment of its outlay. 
From UKIs file, I can see that Miss H complained that it wouldnt provide proof of her NCD 
so that a new policy could be set up. But this was whilst her claim was being investigated 
and before UKI declined her claim. So I think this is a new concern that Miss H should first 
raise with UKI to give it a chance to respond. And Im not able to consider this point further 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman