DRN-3537754
The complaint
Mrs H complains through her representative that Loans 2 Go Limited lent her money on high
cost loans which she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mrs H with the following loans:
Date Amount 
borrowedTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
Loan 1 24.11.19 £470.00 18 £108 27.09.20
Loan 2 27.09.20 £550.00 18 £126 05.03.21
Loan 3 05.03.21 £2,420.23 18 £292 Not settled
Mrs H complained to Loans 2 Go that she couldnt afford the loans and that insufficient 
checks had been carried out. She entered into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) in 
September 2021. The Insolvency Practitioner confirmed that she only had £144 per month 
disposable income to repay all her unsecured debts once these had been included in the 
IVA.
Loans 2 Go said it that in respect of all three loans it had assessed them as being 
affordable. It carried out verification checks on her income and it also carried out a credit 
check for each loan.
Our adjudicator said that Loans 2 Go had made a fair lending decision in respect of loans 1
and 2. In respect of loan 3 he said from the information Loans 2 Go gathered, prior to
making their lending decision for loan 3, he thought it was aware, or shouldve been aware,
that Mrs H couldnt afford to sustainably repay loan 3. So, he thought Loans 2 Go had
unfairly agreed loan 3.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I said I didnt think that Loans 2 Go had made 
a fair lending decision in respect of either loan 2 or loan 3.
Mrs H accepted my provisional decision. And Loans 2 Go said it had no further points to 
make in response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs H would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs H would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Hs ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mrs H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
The capital amount of this loan was relatively small, albeit that the instalments required a 
substantial commitment from Mrs H over 18 months. Loans 2 Go assessed her monthly 
income as around £1,493 a month. From that it assessed that she had credit commitments 
of £300, which, from the credit report, I think was reasonable to assess. She was using two 
credit cards, had a bank overdraft of just over £1,000 and a loan which she was repaying at 
the rate of £158 a month.
Loans 2 Go assessed Mrs Hs monthly expenditure (including credit commitments) as being£1,235, unfortunately not broken down any further. However the loan was said to be for 
Christmas, so no debts were being paid off. She would have been left with a disposable 
income of £268 out of which to pay the new loan instalments of £108, which I think was 
just about affordable. Her credit commitments when taking into account the new loan, 
made up about 27% of her income. This was relatively high but from the checks carried 
out, which I think were proportionate, I think it made a fair lending decision.
The credit report showed an overdraft but it didnt give any details of how this might have 
changed in the months before applying for the loan. So I dont think Loans 2 Go would have 
been alerted to carry out any further checks.
I would observe that Mrs Hs insolvency practitioner had the benefit of being able to check 
her bank statements but these havent been supplied to us (despite our adjudicator 
inviting her representative to do so). So Im not able to assess whether the monthly 
expenditure figure assessed was accurate.
loan 2
This loan was provided 10 months after loan 1, so although again it was for a relatively 
small amount, Loans 2 Go needed to take into account the information it had gleaned from 
the first loan application. This application showed Mrs H still had the same credit cards as 
before, the balance on one had decreased by £200 and on the other increased by £65. 
However she had taken out two new credit cards on which she had run up balances of 
£790 and £168. She had also taken out a new loan with another company within a month 
of loan 1.
In respect of this application, the credit commitments showing on the application were £300, 
but I assess them, from the credit report, to be around £439. With the old loan being paid off 
the instalment for this loan added £21 to that figure. But as that brought the proportion of her 
credit commitments to her income up to around 31%, I think that was too high, unless her 
disposable income had gone up.
There was no purpose set out for the loan in the application data, so I assume it wasnt 
earmarked for any debt consolidation (which didnt appear to happen anyway). Mrs Hs 
disposable income had gone down to around £147 a month if I accept Loans 2 Gos figures.
However its not just the pounds and pence calculation which should be taken into account. 
In my view the further credit Mrs H had incurred since loan 1 and the fact that her disposable 
income had gone down indicated that the loan was unaffordable to her. So, although I think 
Loans 2 Go still carried out proportionate checks, those checks should have led it to view the
new loan as unaffordable. So I dont think it made a fair lending decision in respect of this
loan.
loan 3
Mrs Hs four credit cards all had higher balances by the time of this application, which was
only six months after loan 2. Two of them were very close to their limit, and one was over the
credit limit. She had also started using a fifth credit card which previously had had a nil
balance. She had taken out a new loan within three days of loan 2. This paid off an old loan
and increased the monthly payment by £30. I calculate her credit commitments, allowing a
3% payment for each credit card, to be around £683, allowing for the old loan to be paid off.
Her monthly income had decreased slightly, so the proportion of her income spent on credit
commitments had increased to (in my view) an unsustainable level of 46%.Ive noted that this loan was said to be for debt consolidation, though I cant see that Loans 2
Go took any steps to pay off any debts (except its previous loan), which it could have done.
Realistically though Mrs H could only have paid off one loan which would have saved £92 a
month, and two credit cards which could have released around a combined total of £36 a
month. This would have brought the proportion down to around 38%, still in my view
unsustainable taking into account what her previous record showed.
I think that again Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks for this loan. But those checks
in my view should have led it to conclude that such a loan was unaffordable, even without
carrying out further checks. I dont think it made a fair lending decision in respect of this 
loan.
As neither party has any further comments to make on my provisional findings, those 
findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mrs H has had the capital sum for loans 2 and 3 and its fair that she repays this. I should
remind her and her representative that if shes subject to an IVA, it is her responsibility to
check that the supervisor of that IVA is aware of any award and they may require any
payment to be made directly to them. 
Loans 2 Go should do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loans 2 and 3.
Treat any payments made by Mrs H as payments towards the total capital amount of 
£2,970.23. 
If Mrs H has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% simple 
interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mrs H.
Remove any adverse information about loans 2 and 3 from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman