DRN-2620663
The complaint
Miss Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland (Halifax) concerns the expiry of a mortgage offer 
she received and which she says Halifax agreed to extend. 
What happened
Miss C obtained a mortgage offer from Halifax on 29 September 2019. It had an expiry date 
of 29 February 2020. Miss C says she was told on two separate occasions (November 2019 
and February 2020) that the offer could be extended and in March 2020 had asked for a 
further extension but was told that it was not possible. 
Miss C has said that Halifax then made a new mortgage offer to her, but the terms were not 
as good, because the second mortgage offer required a larger deposit in addition to which 
Miss C was required to pay a higher fee to Halifax, and valuation and solicitors fees.
Halifax didnt fully uphold Miss Cs complaint. It said that the mortgage offer had been clear 
and that it had never agreed to extend the mortgage offer beyond the expiry date of 29 
February. It did however concede that its advisor hadnt been clear during a call on 21 
January 2020 and so to that extent, partially upheld Miss Cs complaint awarding her £150.
Miss C was unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator agreed there had been some poor 
service by Halifax, but the amount of compensation Halifax had paid was enough to put 
things right. 
Miss C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The evidence provided shows that Halifax did issue a Right to Buy (RTB) mortgage offer (the 
offer) to Miss C which expired on 29 February 2020. The offer made it clear that if the 
mortgage wasnt taken out by then, Miss C would need to contact Halifax to make new 
arrangements. This expiry date was also confirmed in a call to Miss C on 20 August 2019. 
The offer related to Miss Cs intended purchase of her existing home, under the Right to Buy 
scheme, which at that time she was renting from a Housing Scheme.
The offer was based on Miss Cs property being valued at £140,000 and her receiving a 
discount under the RTB scheme of £9,000 to achieve a sale price of £131,000. Miss C had 
her own deposit £5,000 which when added to the discount figure produced 10% of the 
valuation and was to be treated as a 10% deposit.. 
Miss C has referred to two call she made to Halifax, the first being in November 2019. There 
is evidence in the form of the call recording that she did contact Halifax on 27 November 
when she asked for an email copy of the offer. Miss C also asked about the different rates 
Halifax were offering at that time and was advised to speak to a mortgage adviser. The 
adviser didnt however state that the offer could or was being extended. 
Halifax have provided evidence, in the form of call notes, that on 21 January 2020 Miss C 
called Halifax again. During that call she gave the impression that she was considering the 
purchase of a different property to the one in which she lived, a consequence of which was 
that the offer under the RTB scheme would no longer be appropriate or valid. 
Halifax have accepted that their adviser did say that an offer is normally valid for only six 
months although that was in relation to the expiry date for the interest rate, and the mortgage 
application itself wouldnt expire. 
Halifax also accepted that a new agreement in principle based on a standard (non RTB) 
property purchase was explored, although Miss C did not ultimately pursue it. However, Miss 
C was also advised that if she did proceed she would need to put down a 10% deposit, 
which she confirmed she couldnt afford and then went on to say that she would consider 
whether to proceed with her RTB application. 
Although Miss C believes she called Halifax in February 2020 there is no evidence available 
to confirm that and it is more likely than not that it is the 21 January call to which she is 
actually referring. There is however evidence that Miss C called Halifax on 12 March wishing 
to proceed with her RTB application. At that time the offer, as opposed to the application, 
had already expired. 
As the offer had expired Halifax said that it provided a revised mortgage recommendation 
based on the products it had available at that time, none of which had a deposit of less than 
15%.
In relation to the mortgage application, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly. I know it will have 
been very disappointing for Miss C to learn that the RTB mortgage offer was no longer 
available, but the expiration date was very clearly spelled out in the offer letter. So, I dont 
think Miss C could be under any misconception of when it was to expire. I know Miss C feels 
that she was then told otherwise by an adviser on the telephone, but there is no evidence of 
that and the evidence in the call notes indicates otherwise.
And I dont see any unfairness in Halifax not re-offering a mortgage on similar terms, since 
given the passage of time the circumstances had changed, and Halifax were entitled to 
make a commercial decision as to what products they would offer. 
I do however see that the call of 21 January might have the potential to appear a little 
confusing especially as Miss C was introducing the possibility of a new mortgage application. 
I think the terminology used of mortgage offer and mortgage application and the distinction 
between the two was not as clear as it could have been. But I dont think this overrides the 
clear written instruction on the mortgage offer itself that there was a fixed expiry date. 
Further there is no evidence that Miss C asked Halifax to extend the offer itself and even 
though Miss C feels Halifax did agree, the available evidence doesnt bear that out.Halifax has accepted that there was a lack of clarity on the January call, and have paid Miss 
C £150 in compensation. Ive given this some further thought to assess whether that was fair 
and reasonable. When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation 
might be, we take into account a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and 
inconvenience that may have been caused. We categorise awards and examples of these 
can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures. 
So, having weighed up all the evidence, I dont think the lack of clarity has played a part in 
the mortgage offer expiring, since it was clearly set out in the mortgage offer and there was 
no request to extend it. I think the compensation payment made by Halifax of £150 is 
therefore a fair and reasonable recompense.
I have taken into account that Miss C has made payments for a valuation fee and solicitors 
fees, but these were not caused by any error on Halifaxs part and so I cannot find that it 
should be responsible for them.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland has already paid Miss C £150 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair 
and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman