DRN-3185408
The complaint
Miss Ls complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to the delay in her 
receiving a hard copy mortgage redemption statement (the statement).
What happened
Miss L contacted NBS by webchat on Friday 25 June 2021 requesting a statement up to 25 
July 2021. She was given a figure and told a statement would be posted out to her but that it 
could take up to five working days. She was told the figure she was given was valid only for 
25 July and after that it would change due to daily interest until the mortgage was paid off. 
On Wednesday 30 June Miss L contacted NBS explaining she hadnt received the statement 
and asked for it to be emailed to her. She was told NBS didnt email statements but that the 
one which had been posted could take five working days to arrive. A further redemption 
figure was provided by webchat. On 7 July Miss L made contact and again asked for the 
statement to be emailed as she had not received the one posted to her. NBS sent a further 
statement out in the post and repeated they could not email one. On 12 July Miss L went into 
branch and obtained a statement valid for that day, but this wasnt acceptable for her new 
lender.
On 13 July Miss L contacted NBS once again and another statement was posted to her. This 
she received on 16 July.  Miss Ls mortgage was redeemed on 26 July 2021 which was a 
Monday.
Miss L explained that part of the reason for the re-mortgaging of her property was to allow 
her to repay some other creditors. The statement was required by her new lender and the 
delay in getting it she said had caused her worry and stress as she had feared that the 
arrangements she had with her creditors might be prejudiced. Miss L complained to NBS 
who apologised for the fact that she had not received the statement within their timescales 
and offered her £50 in compensation.
Miss L was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NBS hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Miss L didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether NBS acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
The principle area of complaint surrounds the non-receipt of the statements NBS say they 
sent to Miss L. I have no reason to doubt Miss L when she says she did not receive those 
statements. Why would she chase the matter up if she had received the statement? So, I am 
satisfied that when Miss L says the statements never arrived, they didnt. 
The next issue is whether NBS actually sent the statements. NBS evidence shows that each 
time a statement was request one was created and sent out. Again, I have no reason to 
doubt that NBS when they say they did this and indeed their records persuade me that it is 
more likely than not that they did. I also note that when the same process was used on 13 
July, that requested statement was received by Miss L. That shows, on balance, NBS 
system for the production of statements was working. 
The investigator has made the point that the postal service might be to blame, and of course 
I take note that from time to time items do go astray in the post. It would be unusual as 
Miss L suggests for three items not to be delivered, but it would not be unheard of. There 
may of course be other explanations which do not readily spring to mind. However, the point 
is that I can find no evidence of a failure in service on the part of NBS in producing the 
statements and sending them to Miss L.
I did note that Miss L requested the statement for 25 July which was a Sunday. It would be 
unusual in my experience for a mortgage to be redeemed on a Sunday, and it is more likely 
that the redemption date was in fact the following working day 26 July. That accords with the 
actual day of redemption of the mortgage. I know Miss L has said the mortgage was in fact 
supposed to be redeemed the week before but there is no evidence of that before me. The 
only evidence I have seen is that the statement was requested for the 25th. I have not seen 
anything to suggest this earlier date was made known to NBS either. 
Miss L has raised the issue of her financial loss, but I cant find there has been any. There is 
no evidence that any delay in finalising her re-mortgage resulted in difficulties with her 
creditors. It is more than likely that Miss Ls mortgage was redeemed on the day she 
anticipated it to be which ties in with the requested mortgage redemption statement date.
Miss L has also complained that her request for a statement to be emailed to her was not 
met. NBS have explained that their policy is not to email statements, rather to post them out. 
Its not our role to recommend how financial businesses should conduct or arrange their 
commercial operations and processes  thats for them to determine. We dont have the 
power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change their policy 
or procedures. We only look at what happened in the circumstances of the individual 
complaint and check they followed their rules and procedures and have applied them fairly. 
And here NBS have been consistent in holding to their policy.
So, although Miss L will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NBS has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. NBS have of 
course made an offer to Miss L of £50 which I think is very reasonable given I have not 
found fault on their part. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has offered to pay £50 to settle this complaint, and I think that is 
fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman