DRN-3613273
The complaint
Ms H, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to her without carrying out the proper checks and lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from the Everyday Lending records, here is a brief loan table:
Loan Approved Capital sum Monthly 
instalments
1 July 2013 £800 plus fee £150 13 x £121.57
2 July 2014 £1,000 13 x £106.60
3 January 2015 £2,877.73 - £2,300 paid to Ms H 30 x £203.07
Part of loan 3 was used to repay loan 2. Ms H repaid loan 3 quickly  April 2015  with 
another loan from her bank. After the complaint had been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, one of our adjudicators looked at it and thought that Everyday Lending 
ought not to have lent loans 2 and 3 to Ms H. Our adjudicator wrote to both parties to tell 
them this and his reasons why.
Ms H agreed to it and Everyday Lending agreed to the outcome for loan 2 but not for loan 3, 
which effectively mean that the unresolved part of the complaint was loan 3. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide, and I issued a provisional decision 
on 8 November 2022 giving reasons why I agreed with Everyday Lendings outcome  that 
the complaint ought to be upheld for loan 2 only. 
Since then, Ms H has responded to say that she accepts my provisional decision. As 
Everyday Lending had already agreed to uphold loan 2 then it seems that the complaint will 
be resolved satisfactorily with a  loan 2 uphold. 
In the circumstances I am issuing my final decision in the same terms and giving the same 
reasons as my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
- Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate
checks to satisfy itself that Ms H would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Ms H would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Ms Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms H undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
- the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint. This decision follows my provisional decision 
dated 8 November 2022 in which I planned to uphold loan 2 only and not loan 3. 
As Ms H has accepted what our adjudicator has said thereby resolving the issue on loan 1, 
and as Everyday Lending has agreed to put things right for Ms H for loan 2, then it seems 
that the last unresolved part of this complaint was loan 3. And now that Ms H has responded 
to my provisional decision to agree to that as well, then I set out here the reasons why I do 
not consider that loan 3 ought to be upheld  just loan 2. 
Loan 3 was for £2,300 plus additional capital to repay the balance on the previous loan. And 
it had become clear that Ms H had a large overdraft on one of her bank accounts and Ms H
had applied for the loan to clear that overdraft.
Everyday Lending carried out proportionate checks. It obtained a credit file search and it
reviewed Ms Hs bank statements for the period leading up to January 2015  which was
when she applied for loan 3. And what Everyday Lending knew was that she had some other
credit accounts to pay off, but these were relatively low level and one was the EverydayLending loan 2 about which it knew. Ms H had relatively little to pay for household expenses
as she was living at home and paid a low rent to her parents. She was paying about £39 a
month in interest and fees on her overdraft which was around £2,150 and she was close to
her overdraft balance.
Everyday Lending says that it lent her the money to consolidate the debt being her overdraft.
But it knew that debt was only costing her £39 a month  admittedly that would have been
just interest and charges and not any payment towards the principal debt on that overdraft.
Its loan was committing Ms H to a 30 month period of repayments of just over £203 each.
However, Ive thought about what Everyday Lending saw on her credit file when it lent loan 3
to her and Ive looked at the intended use of loan 3 which would have been to cure that issue
 which was the overdraft debt. 
And although I think it may have been an expensive deal that Ms H got with loan 3 that is not 
what Im being asked to look at. I can see that after consolidating loan 2 into loan 3 she had 
hardly any other debts to pay off. And Ms H had very little in the way of household outgoings 
and her bank statements do not reveal any other payments to creditors that I can see. And 
so, I think Everyday Lending was right to think that she could afford loan 3.
That Ms H realised she may have taken an expensive loan is borne out to some extent by
the fact that Ms H cleared the Everyday Lending loan 3 debt a few months after taking it
(April 2015). The loan account note explains that her bank had been able to offer her a
better deal. And so, Ms H paid relatively little towards loan 3 and then realised she could do
better elsewhere and handled her finances differently. But that does not necessarily mean
that Everyday Lending lent to her irresponsibly when it approved loan 3 for her.
I note that Everyday Lending has agreed to put things right for loan 2. And my provisional 
decision did not uphold loan 3 which Ms H has now agreed to. So - to resolve the complaint, 
and about which the parties are agreed, I endorse Everyday Lendings decision to uphold 
loan 2. 
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Lending should:
- remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 2 including any secondary loan
Ms H may have had with that loan,
- treat any payments made by Ms H in respect of loan 2 as payments towards the 
capital sums,
- If Ms H has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
her with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
- remove any adverse payment information about Loan 2 from Ms Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest.
Everyday Lending must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint in part and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited does as I have outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman