DRN-3481964
The complaint
Miss D complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to terminate her 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Miss D held an income protection policy with Aviva, the aim of which was to pay benefit in 
the event she couldnt work because of illness or injury. 
Miss D stopped work due to illness, and made a claim under the policy. Aviva accepted the 
claim. 
Miss D later started working in another occupation, and Aviva paid proportionate benefit.
In 2019, Aviva arranged for Miss D to have an independent medical examination (IME) with 
a specialist. Following this, Aviva made the decision to terminate Miss Ds claim, as it 
thought she no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Miss D 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Avivas decision had 
been reasonable, based on the available medical evidence. 
Miss D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Miss D for her recent submissions to me, as this clearly took a great deal of 
time and effort. However, I dont intend to address every point or piece of evidence within 
this decision. Instead, Ive focused on the evidence I consider to be most relevant to the 
matter. This reflects the fact that this service is an informal dispute service. Though Id like to 
reassure Miss D that I considered all of her submissions carefully before reaching my 
decision.
The policy defines incapacity as:
you are unable, because of illness or injury to perform the material and substantial duties 
of your own occupation...
In terminating the claim, the onus is on Aviva to show that Miss D no longer met the above 
definition of incapacity. 
I see that Aviva contacted Miss Ds previous treating specialist (Dr N) for his thoughts on her 
ability to work in her previous occupation. In January 2019, Dr N said hed been treating 
Miss D since 2018, and had confirmed her diagnoses of chronic insomnia and chronic 
migraine. He said I cannot see why a phased return to [Miss Ds insured role], perhaps 
initially on a part-time basis, with a view to ongoing review with an aim to increase to full time 
if desirable, is not possible. 
Later that year, the IME later took place with Dr B (consultant in occupational medicine). 
Dr B listed Miss Ds diagnoses and symptoms. She also said that Miss D had frequent 
headaches, but commented that this was a common condition and that most people manage 
to work despite their symptoms. Dr B said that Miss D was building an active job and 
expanding her business, despite her headaches. And so Dr B thought she could work 
regularly in her former role even with her symptoms. Dr B also said that Miss D didnt have 
any diagnoses or medical records indicative of significant impairment of concentration or 
memory, and the medical assessment wasnt consistent with a significant defect. Dr B 
concluded by saying that she thought Miss D was fit to perform the material and substantial 
duties of her usual occupation on a full-time basis (though ideally with a phased return).
Miss D has raised concerns with the IME report, as she thought there were a number of 
mistakes in the report.
Whilst its accepted there were some inaccuracies in the report, these were brought to Dr Bs 
attention. Dr B addressed Miss Ds concerns, which is what Id expect. Despite this, Dr B 
remained of the opinion that Miss D could return to work in her insured occupation on either 
a full or part-time basis.
Miss D was under the care of Dr L (consultant neurologist). In October 2020, Dr L said that it 
was well known that chronic migraine was a disabling disorder. He said that Miss D hadnt 
responded to several treatments, and they were relying on injections to improve her 
headaches. He said this may prevent her from carrying out jobs with high levels of 
responsibility. However, Dr L didnt comment on whether Miss Ds symptoms prevented her 
from carrying out her previous occupation. Although Dr L confirmed hed read the IME 
report, I note he didnt say he disagreed with Dr Bs conclusions regarding Miss Ds ability to 
work.
Aviva also obtained the opinion of its company medical officer (CMO), who agreed with Dr B 
that Miss D could return to her insured role. Whilst Avivas CMO acknowledged that Miss D 
continued to experience migraines, they didnt think that meant she couldnt work.
Miss D has provided some medical evidence which shows she continues to experience 
symptoms. I appreciate this shows that she is still impacted by her medical conditions. 
However, Im not a medical expert and have to rely on the medical opinions available to me. 
Dr B took into account Miss Ds ongoing symptoms before reaching her view that Miss D 
could return to her insured role. I therefore remain satisfied that Avivas decision to terminate 
the claim when it did was reasonable, based on the medical evidence at that time.
Miss D makes the point that her insured role isnt available on a part-time basis. Though as 
Aviva has explained, it doesnt need to take into account the availability of a job role. In 
terminating the claim, Aviva needs to show that Miss D no longer met the policy definition of 
incapacity. As Ive said, Im satisfied that Aviva has done this. I appreciate that Dr B 
suggested a phased return (beginning with a few hours a day and then building up to full-
time), and that this would only likely be possible if Miss D were still employed. But it remains 
the case that Dr B thought that Miss D could work on a full-time basis. 
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Miss D, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Aviva to terminate the claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman