DRN-4416005
Complaint
Mr M and Miss R complain that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional-sale agreement with them. Theyve said the agreement was unaffordable and so 
they shouldnt have been accepted for it. 
Background
In November 2019, Moneybarn provided Mr M and Miss R with finance for a used car. The 
cash price of the vehicle was £7,000.00. Mr M and Miss R paid a deposit of £20 and entered 
into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £6,980.00 The loan had 
interest, fees and total charges of £5,311.91 and the total amount to be repaid of £12,291.91 
(excluding Mr M and Miss Rs deposit) was due to be repaid in 47 monthly instalments of 
£261.53. 
Mr M and Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think 
that Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Mr M and Miss R unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr M and Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. Mr M and Miss R disagreed 
with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr M and Miss Rs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr M and Miss Rs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M and Miss R could make their payments in a sustainable manner before 
agreeing to lend to their. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then 
need to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mr M and Miss R. During this assessment, Mr M and Miss R provided details 
of their monthly income. Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Mr M and 
Miss R which showed some low outstanding balances on existing credit and some adverse 
information. 
But when the amount Mr M and Miss R already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mr M 
and Miss Rs living expenses, based on statistical data, were deducted from their monthly 
income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Mr M and Miss R say 
that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr M and Miss R and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator I dont think that the checks 
Moneybarn carried out did go far enough. In my view, bearing in mind it will have seen a 
number of defaults registered against Mr M and Miss R as a result of its credit search. Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn needed to take further steps to verify Mr M and Miss Rs actual 
living costs, rather than rely on statistical data, in order for its checks to have been 
proportionate. 
But a lender failing to carry out sufficient checks doesnt on its own mean that a complaint 
should be upheld. I still need to be satisfied that a lender carrying out such checks would 
have shown the payments to be unaffordable. So as Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient 
checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen 
had it obtained further information from Mr M and Miss R. 
Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mr M and Miss Rs regular living expenses as well as their income and 
existing credit commitments. Ive considered the information Mr M and Miss R have provided 
us with  including their bank statements. 
Having done so, this information does appear to show that when Mr M and Miss Rs 
committed regular living expenses, existing credit commitments and a reasonable amount 
for their defaulted accounts are deducted from their joint income, they did have the funds, at 
the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr M and Miss R did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
prevented Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with them. 
As this is the case, I also think it is unlikely that a court would conclude that the relationship 
between Moneybarn and Mr M and Miss R was unfair to Mr M and Miss R under section  
140A Consumer Credit Act 1974.
As this is the case, Im therefore satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Mr M 
and Miss R when it lent to them and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for Mr M and Miss R. But I hope theyll understand the reasons for 
my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr M and Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman