DRN-3140613
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy he held with Scottish Widows 
Limited. He is unhappy that there was a delay in releasing the maturity value of the policy to 
his mortgage lender. This meant that the lender charged him mortgage interest that it 
wouldnt otherwise have done, had the money been released at the maturity date. 
In addition, Mr C is unhappy about the confusion caused when he asked for information 
about a separate protection policy he had with Scottish Widows.
What happened
In 1996 Mr C took out a mortgage endowment policy to protect and act as the repayment 
vehicle for his mortgage. The policy had a target value of £20,000 and a term of 25 years. It 
was assigned to Mr Cs mortgage lender.
The endowment policy has a maturity date of 2 May 2021. It was not until 28 June 2021 that 
the maturity value was sent to Mr Cs mortgage lender. 
Prior to that happening, Scottish Widows wrote to both Mr C and the mortgage lender the 
policy was assigned to. The first letter to the lender was sent on 3 March 2021 and was 
followed by four further reminders over the following four months. The first four letters were 
sent to the lenders servicing centre in Glasgow and the last to its service centre in Leeds, 
following Mr C telling Scottish Widows that was where his enquiries had been dealt with.
The lender sent the claim form back with a covering letter dated 22 June 2021 and it 
appears it was received by Scottish Widows on 25 June 2021. The maturity was then 
processed, with the money being sent direct to the lender on 28 June 2021. The amount 
paid included an additional sum of interest for the period between the maturity and payment 
date. 
Mr C wasnt happy about the delay in the maturity proceeds being paid out and the extra 
interest he had to pay because of it. He also raised concerns about the communications this 
meant he received from his mortgage lender. 
Scottish Widows explained that where a policy is assigned, it has to receive consent from 
the lender for the maturity proceeds to be paid out. So until the claim form was received from 
the lender on 25 June 2021, it was unable to pay out on the policy. In regard to it having sent 
it first four letters to a different serving centre for the lender to the one that eventually dealt 
with the policy claim, Scottish Widows said that it didnt think it unreasonable that the lender 
would forward the letters to the department that needed to deal with them. It was satisfied 
that it had done nothing wrong.
In relation to the concern Mr C had raised about the information he had been given about his 
separate protection policy, Scottish Widows confirmed that some of the information Mr C had 
been given had been wrong. It said hed correctly been told that the policy term couldnt be 
extended. However, when hed been told that there was another premium due at the 
beginning of July 2021, that had been wrong. Scottish Widows paid Mr C £100 for the poor 
service hed received. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Scottish Widows response and asked us to look into his complaint. 
One of our investigators did so, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He considered the £100 
compensation for any confusion Scottish Widows had caused with the incorrect information 
about his protection policy was enough. He was also satisfied that the evidence clearly 
showed the endowment policy was assigned to the mortgage lender and because of this, 
Scottish Widows couldnt pay out the proceeds until the lender had given permission for this 
to happen. As such, he didnt think Scottish Widows was responsible for the delay in the 
maturity proceeds being paid and wasnt responsible for the additional interest Mr C had 
needed to pay to the mortgage lender.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. This was due to the stress that Scottish 
Widows mistakes had caused him. He asked that the complaint be escalated to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly consider the matter of the information Mr C was given about his protection policy 
around a month before it was due to end. He was correctly told that the policy term couldnt 
be extended, but he was incorrectly told that there was another premium to be paid. Mr C 
was understandably concerned at having to pay a premium the day before the cover ended 
and getting no benefit from it. This was clearly a mistake on Scottish Widows part and it 
clearly confused Mr C and caused him concern. Rightly Scottish Widows concluded that he 
should be compensated for that. It paid £100 and, having concerned the circumstances, I 
think that was an appropriate amount. I say this as there was no financial loss and Mr Cs 
concerns were resolved quite quickly.
Mr Cs concerns about the maturity value being released were clearly of greater importance 
to him. I would explain that when a policy is assigned to a mortgage lender, it means that the 
policyholder is giving the lender legal rights in relation to the policy. In practical terms this 
means that the lender is entitled to the proceeds from the policy, either at maturity or earlier 
surrender. This means that until Scottish Widows heard back from the lender it wasnt able 
to release the maturity proceeds of the policy. Before it could do that it either needed the 
lender to claim the money from the policy, or confirmation that the lender had no further 
interest in the policy thereby allowing the money to be released to Mr C.
Scottish Widows started writing to the mortgage lender two months before the policy was 
due to mature. It wrote to the lender a total of three times before the maturity date. While the 
service centre it wrote to was not the one that eventually processed the maturity request, I 
dont consider that means that Scottish Widows did anything wrong or that the lender was 
not made aware of the impending maturity.
Overall, I am satisfied that Scottish Widows did what it needed to before the maturity date in 
informing the lender of the situation, and it paid out the maturity proceeds as soon as it was 
able to do so. As such, I cant ask it to pay the interest Mr C incurred on the mortgage 
between the maturity date and the payment date. Nor can I find that it is responsible for any 
upset Mr C was caused due to the correspondence from his lender questioning how the 
mortgage would be repaid.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
25 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman