DRN-2911051
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the quality of a TV he has been financing through an agreement with 
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Littlewoods (Shop Direct).
Mrs A has been represented for much of this complaint but as its her name on the finance 
agreement I will refer to Mrs A in this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the goods should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If they werent then Shop Direct are responsible. The 
relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. And it says that when we consider 
whether the goods are of satisfactory quality we should think about whether they have been 
durable.
Shop Direct are not responsible for everything that goes wrong with the goods. They are 
only responsible for the quality of the goods at the point they are supplied. The relevant 
legislation explains that if the fault occurs after the consumer has been in possession of the 
goods for more than six months we are to assume the goods were of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply unless the consumer can prove otherwise.
I dont think Mrs A has been able to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate the TV was 
faulty at the point of supply.
I say that because:
whilst it appears Mrs A did get an independent inspection I have not been provided 
with a copy of that report to support Mrs As claim;
Ive listened to the call with Shop Direct in which Mrs As representative discussed 
the independent report. The agent explained that the report didnt confirm the cause 
of the defect (with the LED panel). So, whilst the information appeared to 
demonstrate a fault, it doesnt appear to have been able to clarify the cause of the 
fault or whether it was present or developing in the TV when it was supplied: the only 
point at which shop Direct were responsible for its quality. 
Ive considered if a TV could be considered not to have been suitably durable if it 
failed after 18 months. Im not persuaded I have enough evidence to demonstrate 
that was the case as theres no clarification about how the fault occurred.
So, I dont think Shop Direct were wrong to reject Mrs As claim and Im not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman