DRN-4255214
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the service British Gas Insurance Services Limited provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise my findings:
Mr and Mrs S held a British Gas Homecare insurance policy. It included an annual 
service, which was carried out in February 2023. I understand Mr S asked the 
engineer about a smell which he thought may have been gas. The engineer said it 
could have been drains or something else but wasnt a gas leak.
The smell persisted, so in May 2023 Mrs S got in touch with her local gas company. 
They confirmed a gas leak and two days later British Gas repaired the problem.
British Gas said the engineer hadnt left any notes and had since left the company, 
so it couldnt investigate the matter further. It apologised and paid £100 
compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was likely 
the engineer had failed to identify the leak but she was satisfied £100 was 
reasonable compensation for the impact of that mistake.
Its disappointing to see British Gas has no engineer notes from the service. But 
based on the information that is available to me, I think its likely there was a gas leak 
during the service. The smell was present at that time and dissipated after the repair, 
so it would be a remarkable coincidence if the smell wasnt a sign there was a gas 
leak during the service.
That means British Gas made a mistake by not identifying the leak and dealing with it 
promptly. When I consider a fair level of compensation for a mistake, I must think 
about the actual impact on the complainant of that mistake. I cant punish a business 
or take into account what might have happened  only what did.
Having done that, Im satisfied £100 is reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
I know Mr and Mrs S think a significantly higher sum is appropriate, given the 
potentially very serious consequences of a leak. If such consequences had arisen, 
its likely the compensation would be much higher  but thankfully they didnt. I think 
£100 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs S experienced.
Recently Mrs S said British Gas treated the £100 compensation as a claim and that 
increased her renewal premium. She said after much correspondence with British 
Gas, it agreed this was incorrect and reduced the premium. But that meant more 
inconvenience for her. As this happened after British Gas complaint response, its 
not something I can consider in this decision. But Mrs S is entitled to raise it with 
British Gas and, if it cant resolve the matter to her satisfaction, she can refer a new 
complaint to this Service.
Although British Gas said it had sent Mrs S a cheque, she said she hadnt received it. 
If that remains the case, and she would like to accept the £100 offered, shes entitled 
to ask British Gas to send it to her again and I would expect it to do so promptly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman