DRN-4368747
The complaint
Miss S complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and the way they 
handled the claim she made on her Appliance Insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S held an Appliance Insurance policy, underwritten by DGI, which provided cover for 
her fridge freezer. Unfortunately, in late June 2023, Miss S noticed a fault on her fridge 
freezer and so, she contacted DGI to make a claim.
DGI initially attempted to repair the fridge freezer, but this attempt failed and so, it was 
deemed irreparable. Because of this, Miss S was passed to DGIs product replacement team 
to choose a replacement.
Initially, Miss S was unhappy with the replacement options provided to her. And after voicing 
her concerns about this, DGI agreed to offer the model Miss S wanted for an upgrade fee. 
But when the replacement was delivered, by a separate delivery agent who Ill refer to as 
R, it was discovered that the fridge freezer chosen wouldnt fit through the doors to Miss S 
home. And so, the delivery couldnt be completed.
Miss S called DGI to complain about this, as she felt it was DGIs responsibility to ensure the 
replacement chosen was installed satisfactorily. DGI didnt agree, and they explained any 
access work needed, such as removing door frames or the appliance handles, would be the 
responsibility of Miss S, and not themselves.
Miss S was unhappy about this and so, she raised a complaint. Miss S was unhappy with 
the level of service DGI had provided, and the fact she was without access to a working 
fridge freezer through no fault of her own. She explained the fridge was needed for her 
moms medication and so, she explained how this was causing her worry and upset. Miss S 
wanted DGI to arrange for the fridge to be installed, at no cost to herself, regardless of the 
work needed to make this happen.
DGI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought theyd acted fairly, in line 
with the policy terms Miss S held. They explained their responsibility ended at ensuring the 
delivery fee was paid for. And so, any issue with the delivery itself would be the responsibility 
of Miss S, and R, to resolve. They thought they had acted fairly by offering to arrange for a 
doorstep delivery, or for another, alternative model to be delivered. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
The day after DGIs complaint response, Miss S agreed to take a cash settlement to the 
value of the fridge freezer, for her to arrange her own replacement and delivery. But she 
remained unhappy with DGIs response and so, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought DGI had acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms of the policy, when processing Miss S claim. They thought 
DGI had been more than fair when agreeing to offer Miss S the replacement she wanted, 
even though this wasnt included within the scope of her policy. And they thought DGI had 
made reasonable attempts to resolve the delivery issue, considering what they were 
responsible for. So, while they appreciated the inconvenience Miss S had experienced 
including the time taken speaking to DGI throughout the claim process, our investigator 
didnt think this had resulted from something DGI did wrong. And so, they didnt think DGI 
needed to do anything more.
Miss S didnt agree. She didnt think our investigator had fairly considered, or compensated 
her for, the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. She maintained her belief that it 
shouldve been DGIs responsibility to ensure the delivery of the replacement was completed 
satisfactorily and so, she thought DGI had acted unfairly when not doing so. Miss S also 
referred to financial losses she felt she incurred needing to call DGI, and the purchasing of a 
small replacement fridge while the claim was ongoing. As Miss S didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss S. I recognise Miss S 
original fridge freezer broke down unexpectedly, through no fault of her own. So, I can 
understand the inconvenience and upset this would no doubt have caused. And I appreciate 
that Miss S paid for the insurance policy provided by DGI to assist her, both practically and 
financially, in situations such as the one she found herself in.
So, when Miss S encountered difficulties in receiving delivery and the installation of the 
replacement fridge freezer, I can understand why Miss S would feel it was DGIs 
responsibility to sort. And, as they were unable to do so, leading to Miss S taking a cash 
settlement instead, I can understand why Miss S feels DGI treated her unfairly and why she 
wants to be compensated accordingly.
But for me to say DGI should do something more, such as compensate Miss S or cover any 
financial losses she incurred, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, 
Id need to be satisfied that DGI failed to fulfil their contractual responsibility, set out within 
the terms and conditions of the policy Miss S held. Or, if I think DGI did act within these, Id 
need to be satisfied that DGI acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Miss S held. And these explain that, where 
the insured appliance cant be repaired, DGI will arrange to replace your appliance with one 
of a same or similar make and technical specification. In this situation, its not in dispute that 
the original fridge freezer couldnt be repaired. So, Id expect DGI to arrange for a 
replacement to be delivered. And Im satisfied this is what DGI did.
And having considered the system notes, call recordings, and both parties testimony, Im 
satisfied that DGI acted more than fairly by agreeing to arrange the delivery of a specific 
model of fridge freezer, at Miss S request, that wasnt originally offered as a replacement for 
the original model Miss S held. As Miss S sourced this specific make and model herself, 
rather than it being put forward by DGI initially, I wouldve expected Miss S to ensure its 
dimensions and specification fit within her home, as an adequate replacement. And so, I think this was her responsibility, and not DGIs.
The terms and conditions of the policy go on to explain that DGI will pay the delivery 
charges for any replacement under this policy. And Im satisfied DGI did so, as Ive seen no 
evidence to show Miss S had to make a payment related directly to delivery of the 
replacement she ordered. But crucially, I dont think DGI covering the cost of this delivery 
means they were responsible for the actions of R.
In this situation, the replacement fridge freezer was attempted to be delivered as intended, 
and as DGI had paid for. But, due to the size of the fridge freezer compared to the size of the 
doorways in Miss S home, delivery couldnt be completed.
I recognise Miss S feels it was the responsibility of DGI to ensure the fridge freezer was 
delivered successfully, so that it could be used and installed. But the terms and conditions 
also explain that in all cases, you will be responsible for installing the new appliance and 
paying any related costs.
I can see from the system notes that DGI offered to rearrange delivery and have the fridge 
freezer delivered to Miss S doorstep, so she could then arrange for access to be made so 
the fridge freezer could be taken inside. And I think this was a reasonable option put forward 
by DGI, as I think its clear from the terms and conditions that any related costs to the 
installation of the fridge freezer would be the responsibility of Miss S. And I think that 
includes any work needed to widen the doorways, or remove appliance doors, as this is all 
work that would be required after the fridge freezer had been delivered to Miss S address. 
And so, I dont think I can say DGI have acted unfairly when attempting to arrange a 
replacement for Miss S, under the terms of the policy.
But as I explained above, Ive also thought about whether DGI acted fairly overall. I 
recognise Miss S doesnt think they have, and shes pointed to the time shes spent 
speaking to DGI trying to resolve the situation. 
Ive considered all the system notes, and the call recordings of the conversations between 
Miss S and DGI. And I do recognise the time Miss S spent speaking to DGI, in an attempt to 
initially receive a fridge freezer she was happy with, and then to arrange suitable delivery. 
But throughout all the calls, and contact, I think DGI were acting in Miss S interests to find a 
suitable way forward. This is shown by them agreeing to provide Miss S with a replacement 
of a make and model that wouldnt usually be offered for the make of fridge freezer she 
initially insured.
And in the calls between Miss S and DGI regarding the failed delivery, I think DGI put 
forward reasonable alternative options to try and assist Miss S. Essentially, Miss S wanted 
DGI to cover the costs of making access to her home but as Ive explained above, I dont 
think this is something DGI were obligated to agree to. So, I dont think I can say they have 
acted unfairly, or that they have made errors which caused Miss S to contact them on more 
occasions than she shouldve needed to do. And so, I dont think they are responsible for the 
costs Miss S incurred speaking to them.
Thats not to say I dont recognise the inconvenience caused to Miss S, and the worry she 
wouldve felt due to her mom needing her medication to be stored below a certain 
temperature. I appreciate the upset this wouldve caused. And I recognise the claim took 
over two weeks to reach a conclusion, where Miss S ultimately decided to take a cash 
settlement. But I can only direct DGI to compensate Miss S for the upset she felt, and any 
delays she experienced, if I think DGI did something wrong that caused the delay and the 
upset. And in this situation, DGI arent responsible for the initial breakdown of the original 
fridge freezer. Nor are they responsible for the time taken for Miss S to choose what she felt was a suitable replacement. And As Ive already explained above, I dont think DGI were 
responsible for the issues faced with delivery, due to the size of the appliance compared to 
Miss S doorways.
Having looked at the notes, and listened to the calls, I can see it took two days from Miss S 
making DGI aware of the delivery issue to DGI agreeing to offer a cash settlement which 
would allow Miss S to arrange her own replacement and delivery. And I think this is a 
reasonable response.
And while Miss S did spend significant time speaking to DGI during this time, I think a certain 
level of inconvenience is to be expected in a situation where the delivery has failed because 
of something DGI were unable to control. So, because of all the above, I dont think I can say 
DGI have acted unfairly, or done something wrong, that means they should compensate 
Miss S on this occasion.
I appreciate this is unlikely to be the outcome Miss S was hoping for. And I recognise 
alongside the compensation, Miss S raised points about financial losses she incurred. Ive 
seen the receipt shes sent our service, which shows she paid for an under counter fridge on 
20 July 2023, to store her moms medication while she arranged her own replacement.
But this fridge was purchased after DGIs complaint response, issued on 19 July 2023. And it 
was purchased on the same day Miss S agreed to a cash settlement with DGI, which she 
was made reasonably aware on the call that this settlement would take 3  5 working days to 
be processed. So, I think at this point Miss S was reasonably aware there would be a period 
of time she would be without a fridge freezer and so, I think Miss S took the decision herself 
to incur the costs of a short-term replacement. And I dont think this replacement was 
required because of anything DGI did wrong, as Ive already explained at length above. So, I 
wont be asking DGI to cover the costs of this purchase.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman