DRN-3249479
The complaint
Mrs C complaints that NewDay Ltd (Aqua) lent to her irresponsibly 
What happened
 In December 2015, Mrs C applied for a credit card from Aqua. It was agreed with a limit of
£900. Her limit was then increased as shown:
In June 2019, Mrs Cs account was put onto a payment plan with repayments of £71.95 a 
month and zero interest. It was later transferred to a debt collection agency (DCA).
Mrs C complained. She said she shouldnt have been given the credit card in the first place, 
nor the increases in limit over the time. She had £5400 of unsecured debt when she applied 
for the card. She said she would like a refund of interest, plus 8% statutory interest added to 
that. He also said that Aqua should change the way in which they assess new customers so 
other people are not put in the same position as she was.
Aqua said that Mrs C passed their checks. When she applied for the card, she was earning a 
salary of £13000 a year and had unsecured debt of £5400. There were no signs of problems
 for example, CCJs or defaults showing on her records. There werent any payday loans. So 
 they issued the card. Looking at the increases in limits, again Mrs C pass their credit 
checks, including any instances of exceeding the limit, late or missed payments, utilisation 
of the limit, payday loan history and any arrears on other debts. They declined Mrs Cs 
complaint.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator said Aqua hadnt acted reasonably. 
When Aqua issued the card, the amount of unsecured debt (£5400) was high in comparison 
with her salary of £13000 a year. There wasnt any other household income. So  based on 
this information, the card shouldnt have been issued in the first place. He then said the 
subsequent limit increases werent justified. This was because of high limit utilisation, and 
Mrs C had also used the card for several cash withdrawals. Her overall debts had increased 
also  so that by the time of the increase to £3550, she had debts of £11139. By the time of 
the final increase to £4750 in February 2019, Mrs C had total credit card debts of £14925 
[sic]. This wasnt appropriate when Mrs Cs salary was £13000 a year  and Aqua hadnt 
Date Limit
December 2015 (issue of credit card) £900
April 2016 £1700
August 2016 £2300
September 2018 £3550
February 2019 £4750checked it since the card was issued in December 2015. So, he couldnt see how Aqua 
couldve concluded she could afford the higher level of debt. Four months after the last 
increase, Mrs C went on a payment plan with reduced payments  so this showed the 
lending decision must have been wrong. He said all interest and fees should be refunded 
since the card was issued, plus 8% simple from when the fees were applied. He said that 
any adverse information removed from Mrs Cs credit file, and Aqua should pay Mrs C £250 
for distress and inconvenience.
Aqua disagreed. They said the information they had for Mrs C looked satisfactory when the 
card was issued  there werent any arrears, debt management programmes or defaults with 
other lenders. While her income was relatively low, it couldve increased over time. After 
that, their checks for the increases showed she was within Aquas risk criteria each time.
Shed made all payments on time, and while there were cash withdrawals, these were a 
feature of the card  they werent necessarily a bad thing. They asked that an ombudsman 
look at Mrs Cs complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Aqua 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
So  Ive looked at Mrs Cs complaint with this guidance in mind.
I think its fair to say that the first limit agreed by Aqua was a modest one. Therefore, Aquas 
checks could be less than when the limits increased after that.
Looking at when Mrs C applied for the card in December 2015  she said she had a salary 
of £13000 per year, and was in a stable, long term job. She said she had debts of £5400 in 
addition to the card she was applying for. But also  Aqua could see there werent any 
debts in arrears, nor were there any defaults or CCJs on her record  so Mrs C appeared to be paying her way. And so, I think  given the low limit of £900, the checks that Aqua 
completed were reasonable.
Looking at the first increase in limit to £1700  four months later, in April 2016. For this, Aqua 
could see that Mrs C had used only about 60% of the previous limit, and shed made the 
monthly payments satisfactorily. So that looked reasonable. She had withdrawn cash of 
£460 in the first month of having the card  normally a sign of some problems. And  Aqua 
could see that Mrs C had total credit card debts of £7388 by that stage. But on balance, it 
looks to me as though the checks they did were reasonable to agree the new limit.
But its after that when Aqua shouldve taken more care in offering the increases in limit to 
Mrs C. In August 2016  only eight months after giving her the card, aqua offered an 
increase in the limit to £2300.While the minimum monthly payments (or just over them) had 
been made, and the account had operated within the previous limit, Mrs C had withdrawn 
cash of £680 over the previous four months. This compared to her normal retail spending 
of about £920. And  aqua could also see that her debts had increased to £8018. This 
would tend to suggest there were some problems which Aqua shouldve asked some 
questions about.
In September 2018, Aqua increased Mrs Cs limit to £3550. They could see that the 
monthly minimum payments had been paid, but also that Mrs C had gone over her limit on 
eight of the previous 24 months  that was a frequent occurrence. But also  they could 
see that Mrs Cs total credit card debts had gone up to £11139  I think this was a lot of 
credit for her to take on when compared to her salary. So, I think at that stage, Aqua 
shouldve asked more questions.
When Aqua offered to increase the limit to £4750 in February 2019, things had clearly got 
worse for Mrs C  her debts were then up to £15736  and had increased from £11139 five 
months previously  so she was clearly under financial pressure by that time. I accept that 
she was managing to make the monthly payments to Aqua at the time. But in the context of 
her salary of £13000  this was a lot of credit for Mrs C to take on. I dont think Aqua 
shouldve increased Mrs Cs limit then without making more inquiries of her.
Aqua shouldve asked more questions from when they agreed to increase Mrs Cs limits in 
August 2016 (from £1700 to £2300) through to the last increase to £4750 in February 2019. 
This is particularly so because they could see how her total debts were increasing by 
comparison with her salary. They couldve asked for an update on her income and 
expenditure, and on her other credit commitments. Her annual salary was still showing in 
Aquas records as £13000  the same as three years before. Under the FCAs guidance 
they shouldve asked for an up to date salary. This says The firm may have regard, where 
appropriate, to information obtained in the course of previous dealings with the customer. 
However, the firm should also consider whether the passage of time could have affected 
the validity of the information and whether it is appropriate to update it.
Mrs C told us that her husband wasnt working  so there wasnt any other household 
income  Aqua wouldve found that out had they asked more questions. Had they done so, 
I think its unlikely that they wouldve agreed to the increases  I dont think the checks they 
did were proportionate to the limits they offered and in Mrs Cs circumstances.I can see that Mrs C couldve opted out of the increases in limit that Aqua offered but didnt 
 so she should also accept some responsibility for what happened.
Mrs C has said she wants Aqua to change their processes  but we cant ask Aqua to 
change the way they do business. Rather, we look at individual disputes between 
customers and businesses on a case by case basis and decide if a customer has been 
treated fairly and reasonably. Its the role of the FCA to look at Aquas commercial 
decisions and the way they run their business overall.
So  my provisional decision is to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  but only for the increases in 
limit to £2300 in August 2016 and those after that. The first issue of the card in December 
2015 and the first limit increase in April 2016 (to £1700) were appropriate in my view. I 
propose that Aqua should refund all interest and charges after August 2016 (when the limit 
was increased to £2300) to the date of any final decision  on Mrs Cs borrowing over 
£1700. And they should also amend her credit file to remove any adverse data from August 
2016. I agree that a payment of £250 in also appropriate for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs C. Mrs C and our investigator said that 8% interest should be added to the 
refund of fees and interest  but I dont think thats appropriate as on balance and in the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint, the package of measures as Ive set out is fair and 
reasonable.
The refunds should go to Mrs Cs debt  which is now being managed by a DCA. Its 
appropriate that she should agree a mutually acceptable repayment schedule for the 
remaining debt with the DCA.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs C agreed, but Aqua commented and said:
I referred to there being nine cash withdrawals totalling £680 up to the increase in 
limit in August 2016, whereas there were seven for £530. And cash withdrawals are a 
feature of the card and the withdrawals were within Aquas lending policy.
The external debts were manageable (£8018 in August 2016) compared to Mrs Cs 
income of £13000. Minimum payments were being made.
In September 2018, Mrs C had exceeded her credit limit seven times in the last 24 
months, not eight as Id said.
Mrs c couldve opted out of the offered increases.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I dont think the updated information about the number of cash withdrawals and excesses 
over Mrs Cs limit are material  although I apologise for the small errors in that regard. And 
 whatever Aquas policy on cash withdrawals might say, I do think that a large amount of 
cash being withdrawn can be a sign of problems  especially when compared to the normal 
retail spending. And I think it was worthy of further inquiry. 
And for someone to have external debts of over £8000 in August 2016 - rising to £15736 in 
February 2019  as compared to a salary of £13000 per annum is worthy of inquiry  not 
only the actual amount of debt, but also the trend of the increases seen in it. 
I accept that Mrs C couldve opted out of the offered increases  and I said in the provisional 
decision that Mrs C should accept some responsibility. And that was one consideration in my 
thinking for saying that the first increase was reasonable. But in this case, I dont think that 
makes all the lending in question responsible.
 And so  for the reasons outlined, Im not changing my final decision from the provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must:
Refund interest and fees on borrowing over £1700 with effect from August 2016.
This to be credited to Mrs Cs outstanding debt and a repayment programme agreed 
for the outstanding debt.
Remove any adverse data from Mrs Cs credit file  such as late payments, over 
limits and defaults  with effect from August 2016.
Pay Mrs C £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman