DRN-2564323
The complaint
Miss K, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us about a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on an Evans account she took  in-store out in 
April 2002. The policy included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.
What happened
Miss K says she wasnt given a choice about taking out PPI with her account. She also says 
it wasnt properly explained to her. 
When our adjudicator first assessed this complaint she thought the PPI hadnt been 
mis-sold. 
Miss K disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint. I appreciate she will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Miss Ks card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet when she was 
visiting the store. Ive kept in mind that Miss K says she wasnt given a choice about 
taking out the cover. 
Im helped by having to hand the actual application form and credit agreement Miss K 
signed to open the account. I can see she signed to apply for the card but, significantly, 
she needed to sign a separate section of the form to show that she wanted to protect her 
account by taking out PPI. I can see she signed this section. So I think its likely that Miss 
K would have realised she didnt need to take out PPI cover to get the card and she didnt 
need to sign this part of the form if she didnt want the insurance. 
So looking at what happened, I think Miss K knew or ought to have known that shed 
agreed to take out PPI at the time she was applying for her store card. 
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Miss K to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
PPI cover. I acknowledge it perhaps could have set out the information about the PPI in a 
better way, but overall, I think Miss K probably had access to enough information to allow 
her to make an informed decision.
Miss K told us she had some sickness protection already with her job of around three 
months full pay. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about 
the benefits Miss K says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of 
use. She was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend 
to see in some of these policies. 
The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered 
gave more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work 
or lost her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each 
month until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These 
benefits would have been in addition to any other means Miss K had in place at the time, 
such as any savings she may have had. 
So overall, I can see Miss K did agree to the policy and its likely that she had to hand the 
basic information about the policy shed need to know when deciding to take it out. And I 
dont think Miss K would have changed her mind about buying the PPI even if shed had 
better or clearer information about the cover. 
I recognise it is a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Miss K this 
news. But I still dont think its likely that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman