DRN-3469121
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr S took out an Aqua credit card in November 2018. It initially had a credit limit of £1,200. 
Mr S thinks the initial limit was fair but then the credit limit was increased at a time when he 
was vulnerable and struggling with his bills. He raised a complaint but didnt hear back and 
was offered a further credit limit increase. He thinks the credit limit increases were 
irresponsible and have resulted in him being in a worse financial position.
NewDay says that before it provided Mr S with the Aqua credit card it asked about his 
income and carried out a credit check. It says Mr S declared an annual income of £25,000 
and his credit check didnt raise any concerns. Therefore, Mr S was provided with an Aqua 
credit card with £1,200 credit limit. It says it regularly reviews its customers accounts and in 
September 2019 Mr S was offered a limit increase to £1,700. Mr S then requested a limit 
increase in January 2021 to £2,200 and a further increase was offered and accepted in April 
2021 bringing Mr S credit limit to £3,700. It says that before the limit increases were given it 
carried out reasonable checks and Mr S met its lending criteria.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She didnt think that the credit limit increases 
provided from September 2019 were affordable. She said that the affordability data provided 
by NewDay in September 2019 showed he was struggling to manage his money.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that it carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before increasing Mr S credit limit. It said that Mr S made 
overpayments on many occasions and that when he exceeded his credit limit this was due to 
him not making allowances for the monthly interest charges. It said in January and April 
2021, Mr S said he was struggling to make payments, but the issues werent due to its 
lending decisions and instead due to a delay in Mr S wages and the effect of the pandemic.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I agreed with our investigators outcome but 
provided further details for my reasons. I concluded in summary:
The checks undertaken before the credit card was provided were proportionate and 
based on these I didnt find that NewDay acted irresponsibly by providing Mr S with a 
credit limit of £1,200.
Mr S credit limit was increased to £1,700 in September 2019. The data showed that 
Mr S spent up to his initial limit in the first month and had a balance over the credit 
limit for the following six months. The balance was reduced below the limit for the two 
months prior to the increase but was still at around 95% usage.
NewDay said that between November 2018 and September 2019 Mr S only missed 
one payment, that he made overpayments and he exceeded his credit limit because 
he wasnt leaving enough available credit to cover his interest charges. It said the 
external data at the time showed Mr S didnt have any payday loans or payment 
arrangements or evidence of financial difficulties. I noted the comments but as Mr S 
account had been over its credit limit for six of the nine months I thought this should 
have raised concerns. Mr S was making payments, but these werent making 
significant inroads into his outstanding balance which had approached the credit limit 
in the first month. Between November 2018 and September 2019, Mr S total 
outstanding balances had increased from £91,345 to around £95,500. I thought this 
should have raised concerns that Mr S debts were increasing and that he was reliant 
on the credit card borrowing. This was further supported by his actions to increase 
his spending to over the new limit in the month the increase was applied. I thought 
the information available to NewDay before the limit increase in September 2019 
showed that providing further credit to Mr S at that time wasnt responsible.
As I didnt think the credit limit increase in September 2019 should have taken place, 
I didnt think that any further increases should have happened unless there was clear 
evidence of a significant improvement in Mr S financial circumstances. I didnt think 
the information gathered showed that Mr S financial circumstances had improved so 
I didnt think that the subsequent credit limit increases should have happened. 
I upheld this complaint as I didnt think that the credit limit increases should have been 
applied to Mr S credit card.
I didnt receive any new information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I didnt receive any new information in response to my provisional decision, my 
conclusions havent changed. While I do not think it unreasonable that the initial credit card 
was provided with a credit limit of £1,200, I do not think it was responsible, based on the 
information available at the time, to have increased Mr S credit limit. Therefore, I uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should:
Rework Mr S credit card account so that from September 2019 onwards interest is 
only charged on amounts up to the £1,200 credit limit. To the extent any charges 
were applied these should be refunded from September 2019. Any refund should be 
applied to reduce Mr S outstanding balance. In the event the refund results in an 
overpayment, Mr S should be paid 8% simple interest on this amount for the period 
of the overpayment.
Remove any adverse information recorded about this credit card account from 
September 2019 from Mr S credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, NewDay must give the Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman