DRN-3101860
The complaint
Mr C says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr C took out a guarantor loan from TFS in March 2015. It was for £7,500 over 60
months. The monthly repayment was £275.25 and the total repayable was £16,775.
Mr C says the lender failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment and had it
done so it would not have lent to him.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, whilst 
the lender carried out proportionate checks it didnt make a fair decision based on the 
information it gathered.
TFS disagreed saying it was entitled to rely on the information Mr C had provided at the time 
of his application and it had not seen anything to suggest he wouldnt be able to afford the 
loan.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mr C. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr C could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr C, and have considered the following questions:
 
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr C before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of his income, his monthly living costs and his credit commitments. It asked for copies of 
recent bank statements and verified his income using these. It checked his credit file to 
understand his credit history and current monthly repayments. It also asked about the 
purpose of the loan which was for a training course related to his job. From these checks 
combined TFS concluded Mr C would have monthly disposable income of £1148.02, and so 
the loan was affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not satisfied that TFS reacted to the data it 
gathered appropriately to reach a fair lending decision. Ill explain why.
TFS argues it had an accurate understanding of Mr Cs finances. I disagree. It has provided 
the copies of Mr Cs bank statements for December 2014 and January 2015 that he sent in 
when he applied for this loan. Whilst these confirm his income to be largely as declared, they 
show that he did not have the level of disposable income that TFS had calculated. Rather, 
prior to each payday he had no remaining funds in his account. I cant easily reconcile 
Mr Cs expenses with the amounts he declared for each cost category TFS asked about. But 
I think there were certain transactions that TFS should have better considered and 
understood before lending. There were two payments in that seem to be short term loans for 
£100 and £200, a number of gambling transactions and frequent cash withdrawals, often 
multiple times on the same day, and totalling in excess of £600 each month. I cant see it 
made any attempt to recalculate Mr Cs expenses based on the actuals it saw. And the 
actuals did not support its conclusion that Mr C had enough disposable income for the loan 
to be sustainably affordable. In its reply to our investigator it said it is entitled to rely on the 
information Mr C provided as being accurate  but this does not change its obligation to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and to react appropriately to the information it 
gathers.In addition, TFS knew from Mr Cs credit check that he had previously had financial 
difficulties. He had been reliant on payday loans and whilst the majority of the older loans 
were settled, six of the accounts he had defaulted on in 2012 and 2013 remained unsettled. 
He was making nominal repayments of less than £30 each month to debt collections 
agencies to settle this total debt of £2,260. I think this should have been another indicator to 
TFS that it was unlikely Mr C had the level of disposable income it was using for its 
affordability assessment.  
It follows I think it was irresponsible for TFS to go ahead and lend to Mr C without better 
understanding his finances. In the round, I think there was sufficient evidence that TFS ought 
to have realised there was a risk this loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr C. So I 
think TFS was wrong to lend to Mr C.
I havent found any evidence that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
  
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr C to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr C made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Cs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Cs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance TFS
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with him.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr C a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman