DRN-2815673
The complaint
Mr R complains because Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) refused to provide 
ongoing cover for a claim under his private medical insurance policy and added a 
retrospective exclusion to his policy. 
Mr R also complains about the information he was given and the medical questions he was 
asked at the time the policy was sold. 
What happened
Mr R holds a private medical insurance policy, provided by WPA. The policy is held on a 
moratorium basis and was sold by an agent of WPA. 
The application process for the policy started over the phone in February 2018, when WPAs 
agent completed an online application form on behalf of Mr R. A summary of Mr Rs 
application was sent to him by email, and Mr R confirmed by email that hed read, 
understood and agreed to a customer needs questionnaire. 
In October 2018, Mr R contacted WPA to make a claim for lower back/hip pain. WPA 
authorised outpatient tests and investigations for Mr R and asked for additional medical 
information so it could confirm whether further benefits would be paid under his policy. 
When WPA received and reviewed the additional medical information, it said Mr R had a 
surgical procedure on his hip prior to taking out the policy. WPA said, if it had been told 
about Mr Rs surgery when he bought the policy, it wouldnt have offered him cover on a 
moratorium basis. WPA said it would instead only have allowed him to take out a policy on a 
fully underwritten basis, with an exclusion for claims relating to certain medical conditions. 
WPA therefore applied a retrospective exclusion to Mr Rs policy and said it wouldnt provide 
any further cover for his claim. WPA agreed to cover the costs of the investigations and 
consultations Mr R had to date as these had already been authorised and offered to refund 
the premiums hed paid for the policy, less the value of the claim payments made. 
Unhappy, Mr Rs representative complained to both the underwriter and the seller of the 
policy. Both businesses issued separate final response letters. Mr Rs representative then 
brought Mr Rs complaints to the attention of our service. 
As the seller of the policy was acting as WPAs agent, we can consider all the issues Mr R 
has raised within one complaint against WPA.
Our investigator looking into what had happened but said she didnt think WPA needed to do
anything further. Mr R didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was
referred to me. I made my provisional decision about Mr Rs complaint in April 2021. In it, I 
said:
WPA says Mr R incorrectly answered medical questions about his health when he bought
his policy. This means the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012
(CIDRA) is relevant, and I think its fair and reasonable to apply the principles set out in this
legislation to Mr Rs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about and, without that misrepresentation,
the insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract at all or would have done so on different
terms. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a consumer has taken
reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were.
The application process for this policy started over the phone. During the call, WPAs agent
completed an online application form on behalf of Mr R. Unfortunately, a recording of the
telephone conversation between Mr R and WPAs agent isnt available, so I have no way of
knowing for certain exactly what was discussed. I therefore need to make my decision based
on what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Mr R says the online application form doesnt refer to medical conditions which are more
than five years old. This isnt correct  the application form asks the prospective policyholder
to confirm if they have ever had a surgical procedure for joint and/or back conditions. The
online application form records that Mr R was asked this question and said hed never had
any such procedure. However, I understand this application form was completed by WPAs
agent rather than by Mr R himself, and Mr R wasnt provided with a copy of the application
form showing his answers before the sale of the policy was concluded. Mr Rs recollections
are that he wasnt told he needed to disclose joint and/or back conditions during the
telephone call.
Ive considered the documents which were sent to Mr R before the purchase of the policy
was completed. WPA sent Mr R an email in response to his application for the policy. This
email, under a heading in bold entitled Some important points to note said;
2. A condition of joining on a moratorium underwriting basis, is that you (and any
family members added to your policy): 
For joint and back conditions: have never had a surgical procedure/arthroscopy
(keyhole surgery) 
If this is not the case, please contact us immediately as it may invalidate your cover.
Mr R was also sent a copy of a customer needs questionnaire, which Mr R confirmed to
WPA that hed read, understood and agreed to. The questionnaire said Mr R had been
provided with an Underwriting Choices Explained leaflet. Ive seen a copy of the leaflet and 
I think it clearly sets out the criteria which someone taking out a moratorium policy must
satisfy. This includes never having had a surgical procedure for a joint or back condition. I
understand Mr R says the questionnaire was pre-completed by WPA and he didnt receive
the Underwriting Choices Explained leaflet. But I cant fairly disregard the fact that Mr R
confirmed his agreement to the contents of the questionnaire.
Ive also been provided with a call recording between Mr Rs representative and Mr R, but
WPA wasnt responsible for any information given during this call so I dont think its relevant
to the outcome of Mr Rs complaint about WPA.
Overall, based on the information thats available to me, I think its likely Mr R was asked
whether hed ever had surgery for a joint or back condition before taking out the policy, and
he either answered no or didnt confirm that he satisfied the criteria for taking out amoratorium policy.
Ive thought about whether Mr R took reasonable care in answering this question in the way
he did and/or in confirming his agreement to the information set out by WPA. Mr R says he is
unlikely to have thought of an operation he had 30 years ago as being a pre-existing medical
condition. I appreciate Mr R had the surgical procedure in question when he was a child, but
WPA asked whether hed ever had a surgical procedure on a joint or his back. I think a
reasonable consumer would have realised that Mr Rs previous operation was something
which WPA wanted to know about in response. So, I think Mr R should have told WPA about
his surgery.
If Mr R had done so, Im satisfied WPA wouldnt have offered him cover on a moratorium
basis. It would instead have offered him a fully underwritten private medical insurance policy
with the following exclusion;
not eligible for any investigations or treatment that is for, resulting from, or related
to the following:
Slipped upper femoral epiphysis (Bilateral), Osteoarthritis of hip (Bilateral)
This means I think Mr R made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. WPA is
therefore entitled to re-write Mr Rs policy from February 2018 on the terms it would have set
if it had known about Mr Rs previous operation. An insurers remedies under CIDRA apply
regardless of whether the claim made relates to the undeclared medical issue. So, I dont
think WPA acted unfairly or unreasonably by applying the above exclusion to Mr Rs policy
retrospectively.
WPA said the claim made by Mr R in October 2018 wasnt covered under his policy because
of this exclusion. Ive considered the medical evidence Ive been provided with to decide
whether I think WPAs decision was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The claim made in October 2018 was for chronic left sided lower back/hip pain. Mr Rs
childhood medical procedures were specifically noted in the GP referral letter, although his
GP said Mr R gets no stiffness in his hip.
A subsequent consultants report said Mr R had a left SUFE which was operated on as a
child and that an x-ray had revealed mushroom deformity of the left femoral head consistent
with a SUFE and minor degeneration of the left hip.
A report from the same consultant in December 2018 refers to Mr Rs left hip pathology as
being the cause of most of his symptoms.
I understand Mr R pursued an active sporting career after his childhood operation and he
had no further follow-up appointments for the issue after 1987. Ive taken into account the
medical evidence provided by Mr R, which says Mr Rs arthritic process almost certainly
developed in adulthood rather than in childhood. However, Mr Rs policy excludes claims for
slipped upper femoral epiphysis and osteoarthritis of the hip regardless of when these
conditions developed and/or regardless of what side of the body these conditions present
on.
Based on the medical evidence Ive seen, I think Mr Rs claim related to a slipped upper
femoral epiphysis (SUFE). Mr Rs policy excludes claims for any investigations or treatment
for, resulting from or related to that condition on either side of the body. This means I dont
think WPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances when it declined Mr Rs
claim.WPA offered to void Mr Rs policy from February 2018 and refund the premiums he paid,
less the value of the claim payments already made. This is more than Id expect WPA to do
in the circumstances, so I think this offer is fair and reasonable. If Mr R doesnt wish to
continue with his policy, then its open to him to accept WPAs offer.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but I dont intend to require WPA to do anything further.
WPA responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr Rs 
representative confirmed theyd received my provisional decision but didnt respond to my 
findings by the deadline Id set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or submissions, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman