DRN-1783007
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that QIC Europe Ltd turned down a claim under their home insurance 
policy after damage was caused by bad weather.
What happened
QIC use a claims handling company to manage claims on their behalf. For convenience I will 
refer to all actions as being those of QIC.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs L made a claim under their home insurance policy after there was 
damage to the roof of their home during bad weather. 
QIC instructed a report to look at the damage. The report said the damage wasn't typical of a 
storm. It concluded the cause of the damage was due to wear and tear, or gradual 
deterioration. This type of damage is excluded under the policy.
QIC also looked at the weather conditions on the day of the damage. They said the winds 
weren't strong enough to meet the definition of a storm under the policy.
For these two reasons QIC turned down the claim.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with the outcome and after complaining to QIC brought their 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things. She agreed with QIC 
saying the weather conditions on the day didn't meet the definition of a storm under the 
policy. She also thought QIC acted fairly when looking at the report and saying the storm 
wasn't the main cause of the damage. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so the complaint has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to tell Mr and Mrs L theres obviously been damage to their home. 
This has clearly caused a great deal of upset, and theres a cost to repair it. But its also  
important to say that my role isn't to re-underwrite the claim, but to decide whether 
QIC acted fairly and reasonably when applying the policy terms to their claim.
Insurance policies cant and dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide cover for under a policy. They are also free to include 
exclusions in policies for events they dont want to cover. Here the policy doesn't cover loss 
or damage caused by wear, tear or anything that happens gradually over time. QIC has 
relied upon this exclusion, as well as the lack of storm conditions, when deciding to turn 
down the claim.
When considering claims for storm damage an insurer should investigate three things:
- were there storm conditions at the time?- is the damage of a type consistent with that caused by a storm?
- was the storm the main cause of the damage?
QIC says the wind speeds at the time didn't constitute a storm. I've looked at the storm data 
for that day. There were indeed very strong winds which were close to the strength of a 
storm as defined in the policy. I can see why QIC interpreted the weather data as they 
did saying it didn't meet the definition of a storm in the policy; and it doesn't, but it was close. 
Had this been the only reason for turning down the claim I mightve questioned QIC further 
as deciding on storm conditions isn't an exact science. However, the lack of storm conditions 
isn't the only reason the claim was turned down, so I dont feel its necessary to challenge 
QIC about this.
To answer the second and third questions QIC instructed a report on the roof.
The report said the damage was caused by wear and tear. It said a number of ridge tiles 
were suffering from deterioration of the mortar beds which happened over a long period of 
time. The report also said some eaves, fascia and guttering had come away, but this was not 
storm related. It concluded that the cause of the damage was wear and tear or gradual 
deterioration. The report went on to say the type of damage was not typical of a storm and 
that without any pre-existing conditions the weather would not have caused the damage.  
QIC applied the policy terms to the claim. In order to be covered under the policy the 
damage would need to be caused by an insured event. QIC said there was no insured event 
as the weather conditions for a storm weren't met. They also said because of the issues 
highlighted in the report the main cause of damage was due to wear and tear and not the 
weather, which is excluded under the policy. 
For these two reasons QIC turned down the claim.
Mr and Mrs L have raised concerns about the qualifications of the person who prepared the 
report. They say they were told the report would be done by a surveyor, however they feel it 
wasn't; and that it was done by a person with 'relevant knowledge'. This has caused upset 
as they didn't feel the person wasn't qualified to prepare the report, and it is a case of 
misrepresentation. This has cast doubt over the contents of the report which led to the claim 
being turned down. 
I've listened to the call where Mr L asked for name and qualifications of the person who 
compiled the report. He said he was told that the person was a qualified surveyor. Mr L 
wanted to know the name of the person so he could check for himself. He was told this 
wouldn't be possible for reasons of data protection. I haven't been able to locate any other 
calls where Mr L was told the person who compiled the report wasn't a surveyor. That's not 
to say I doubt his recollections, but I haven't been able locate a particular call in which he 
was told this. However, I don't think this matters, and I will explain why.
When assessing a claim of this type, I expect an insurer to instruct an expert report to 
assess the damage. I'd expect the person compiling the report to have relevant experience, 
attend the property, conduct an investigation, comment on the damage, and take photos 
where appropriate. I'd also expect to see a reasoned opinion about their thoughts including 
reference to the facts. Looking at the evidence I'm persuaded all of this happened here. 
QIC have confirmed that the person who complied the report was a surveyor who has 
undergone due diligence checks. They say the surveyor has the appropriate experience and 
knowledge to assess home insurance claims. Mr L feels he was misled, and I can see why 
he feels that way. However, I don't feel in any case that there's a requirement for QIC to use a surveyor to compile the report. The person should have the relevant experience and 
knowledge in the area, and from what I've seen, I'm happy they did. 
Mr and Mrs L also raised issues about the photos that were taken as part of the report. They 
don't think the photos were taken of the right part of the roof. Looking at the photos they 
show the ridge tiles, as well as the condition of the roof overall. I'm happy that QIC acted 
fairly when considering them as part of the claims process.
When a claim like this is turned down I'd expect the insurer to consider the claim under the 
accidental damage part of the policy where possible. QIC have done this. The same 
exclusion for wear and tear applies to accidental damage claims. So the claim is 
unsuccessful under that part of the policy as well.
Having looked at all the information, I'm satisfied QIC considered the evidence in a fair and 
reasonable way. I'm happy QIC interpreted the weather data fairly when saying the definition 
of storm wasn't met. I also think they made a reasonable assumption, based on the 
evidence, that wear and tear was the main cause of the problem and the damage was not 
typical of that caused by a storm.
That's not to say the house wasn't damaged; it was. But QIC looked at the weather data, the 
report, and then applied the policy terms. I'm happy this is a fair way of investigating the 
claim and that QIC acted reasonably on the evidence provided.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman