DRN-4179669
The complaint
Ms L complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc  trading as Hitachi Capital  has unfairly 
turned down her claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
On or around 14 December 2010, Ms L purchased  jointly with her partner - a trial 
membership through a timeshare supplier (who Ill refer to as C). The total cost of the 
product purchased is said to have been £3,995. After paying a deposit of £995, the balance 
of £3,000 was funded by entering into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi in Ms Ls sole 
name.
On or around 8 September 2011, Ms L purchased  again, jointly with her partner  a full 
points membership in a timeshare product through C. The total cost of the product 
purchased was £16,839 which, after a trade in allowance of £4,000, left a balance of 
£12,995 to pay. Ms L funded this and consolidated her previous loan by entering into a new 
fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi in her sole name, totalling £13,839.
On or around 13 October 2017, using a professional representative (the PR), Ms L made a 
number of claims to Hitachi under the CCA1. The original letter of claim/complaint, along with 
subsequent submissions made by PR, runs to several pages. So, it isnt practical to repeat 
them in full here. But I will provide a summary of the key points below.
The PR allege that Ms L purchased the points membership having relied upon 
misrepresentations made by C and, under section 75 of the CCA (S75), Hitachi is jointly 
liable for those misrepresentations. The PR have also suggested that those 
misrepresentations, amongst other things, led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
section 140A of the CCA (S140A).
In particular, the PR suggest that the following statements of misrepresentation were made 
by C as benefits and features associated with the purchase of the timeshare points product:
Ms L and her partner could divest themselves from the product by selling or renting 
out the rights purchased;
they would be able to holiday at any resort they wished in high season with 
accommodation of the same standard as experienced during their free prelude week; 
and
a compliance officer was presented as being impartial.
The PR also thought thered been various regulatory and legislative breaches together with 
other reasons why the purchases had led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
S140A. In particular: 
Ms L didnt receive the Information Statement or, if she did, didnt have adequate 
time to review it;
The obligation to pay management charges for the duration is unfair under 
1 Whilst the products were purchased in the joint names of Ms L and her partner, the loans were in Ms Ls sole name only. 
Therefore, Ms L is the only eligible claimant under the CCA.
Regulation 5 of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 
(UTCCR);
a free prelude holiday week was a disguised invitation to a sales presentation;
Ms L was targeted having been supplied with alcohol;
Ms L was invited to purchase a product at a specified price with the intention of 
promoting a different product;
C claimed the product was only available for a limited time or on particular terms for a 
limited time; and
The interest rate charged on the loan was higher than that being offered by other 
lenders.
Having not received a response from Hitachi, the PR referred Ms Ls complaint to this 
service. Hitachi later issued a response to Ms Ls claim. They thought any claim Ms L had 
under S75 had been brought too late under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
Hitachi also didnt agree there was anything to suggest an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
existed under S140A, or that thered been any breaches of the legislation and regulations 
that applied to the product sale.
In response to Hitachis findings, the PR argued that because Ms L didnt discover she had 
cause or the ability to make a claim until 2015  when she sought legal advice  she was 
able to raise her claim/complaint and refer it to this service for consideration. They also 
thought section 32 of the LA (S32) applied and provided for a postponement of any 
limitation on the basis that C had concealed the ability to exit the product agreement by 
giving 28 days notice.
One of our investigators considered all the evidence and facts available. In doing so, they 
thought Ms Ls claim under S75 had been made too late, as the purchases had taken place 
more than six years before the claim. Having considered the circumstances of the points 
product purchase and loan, our investigator didnt find any evidence to suggest the product 
had been misrepresented or that there was enough to suggest a court might find that an 
unfair relationship existed under S140A. Our investigator also said they werent able to find 
anything persuasive to suggest that the loan was unaffordable for Ms L  albeit I cant see 
that this element formed any part of the original claim to Hitachi.
In response, the PR referenced various legislation and regulations, and how they believe 
they apply to Ms Ls purchase experience, pointing out that Cs failures contributed to the 
relationship being unfair under S140A. Ms L also commented on problems shed 
experienced when trying to make bookings and the extent to which management 
charges/maintenance fees were increased. Finally, Ms L referenced health problems 
experienced by her partner in 2017 which rendered him unable to travel and, as such, the 
timeshare product useless.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Ms Ls complaint has been forwarded to me in 
order to reach a final decision. The PR said they also wished to rely on a 46-page document 
produced by Counsel containing Generic submissions on behalf of complainants, which 
relate specifically to complaints about the sale of points products by C.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, while I ultimately came to 
the same outcome as our investigator, Id considered certain aspects not previously 
addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 17 May 2023  giving the PR, 
Ms L and Hitachi the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant ConsiderationsWhen considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Ms 
L paid for the timeshare products with restricted use fixed sum loan agreements, so it 
isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Ms L is afforded the protection 
offered to borrowers like her under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this 
section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Ms L and Hitachi arising out 
of the credit agreements (taken together with any related agreements). And because 
the products purchased were funded under the credit agreements, theyre deemed to 
be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Ms Ls complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is 
because the original transactions - the purchases funded by a loans with Hitachi - 
took place in 2010 and 2011. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but 
as its relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
The PRs response to our investigators view suggests that Ms Ls claim was made 
within three years of when she first discovered she had cause to complain. The 
FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial products 
or services and provide rules and guidance about what this service is able to 
consider. So, its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered 
here and the legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to 
whether I believe Hitachis response to Ms Ls claim was fair and reasonable given all 
the evidence and information available to me, rather than deciding the legal claim 
itself. So, Ms Ls complaint appears to have been referred to this service in time.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the 
role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, 
this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address every single point thats been made in my decision. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
My first observation is that their doesnt appear to be any specific claim or allegations 
in relation to the initial purchase  that of the trial membership. So, in considering Ms 
Ls complaint, Ive thought about the allegations within the context of the second sale 
 the points-based membership product.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The PR says the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and 
benefits to Ms L when she agreed to purchase the product. And they believe this 
could bring cause for a claim under S75.But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue 
of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Ms L had to make a claim within six years of when she entered into the purchase 
contract and credit agreement. The PR confirm this took place in September 2011. 
Thats because this is when they say Ms L lost out having relied upon the alleged 
false statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to Hitachi in 
October 2017. But as this was more than six years after the purchase was completed 
and Ms L first says she lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that her claim falls 
outside of the time limit permitted in the LA. So, I cant fairly say that Hitachis 
decision to decline any claim under S75 ultimately appears unreasonable here.
Could the limitation period be postponed?
The PR argues that the limitation period should be extended under Section 32 of the 
LA because Ms L wasnt made aware that she could relinquish the timeshare by 
giving 28 days notice to do so - and that was concealed from her. 
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has 
been deliberately concealed from him by the defendant [my emphasis]. But neither 
the PR nor Ms L have provided me with anything persuasive to suggest that C 
deliberately concealed anything about a 28-day notice period. And as I still cant see 
why, given the allegations fuelling each claim, this particular issue prevented Ms L 
from making her claim or raising a complaint earlier, my view is that this particular 
argument by PR doesnt help Ms Ls cause. So, Im not persuaded that theres a 
reason why time might be extended in keeping with the provisions of the LA.
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is 
also governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a 
claim is also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, that was 
the date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Ms L and Hitachi continues while the finance agreement 
remains live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the 
borrowing under it has been repaid. And as it appears Ms Ls loan wasnt repaid and 
closed until around August 2014; I believe any claim under S140A is likely to have 
been made in time under the provisions of the LA.
Misrepresentation
Under S140A, in determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have regard 
for anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor. So, I think the 
alleged misrepresentations were, therefore, relevant here. Even though I dont think 
they can be considered under S75 due to limitation. 
The PR have provided limited details and evidence to support the representations Ms 
L says C made. Ive not been provided with any specific statements from Ms L setting 
out her direct memories but acknowledge that she does say she was told these 
things. So, Ive thought about this alongside the evidence thats available from the 
time of the sale. In doing so, I havent seen or been provided with any documentation from the time of the sale which supports what Ms L says she was told or that what 
was said amounted to misrepresentation. Specifically:
oI havent found any evidence to confirm that C provided any assurances that 
Ms L would be able to divest from the product by selling or renting out the 
rights purchased. In particular, point 4 of the Members Declaration clearly 
says that C does not and will not run any resale or rental programmes and 
will not repurchase [membership] points other than as a trade in against 
future property purchases. This is repeated in Part 1 of the Standard 
Information Form where it adds, members are entitled to sell their points 
on the open market if they wish to do so. I cant reasonably hold C (or 
Hitachi) responsible for the availability (or lack) of external timeshare points 
markets. Both of these documents were signed by Ms L at the time of the 
sale.
C has confirmed their files show that Ms L made no specific request about 
resale information, either at the time of the sale or thereafter. Theyve 
emphasised that Ms L was free to choose what to do with her points 
allocation  including using them to book holidays for friends and family under 
a private agreement.
oI havent found any evidence to suggest C made any assurances to Ms L 
about availability or accommodation quality. In particular, I note that the 
documentation from the time of the sale repeatedly suggests that 
accommodation booking is subject to availability. In particular, Part 3 of the 
Standard Information Form says, all reservation requestsare subject to 
availability and seasonal demands.
oIve not seen any evidence from the time of the sale that supports Ms Ls 
recollections that Cs compliance officer was presented as being impartial. My 
understanding is that it was the compliance officers role to ensure that all 
required regulatory documentation had been provided and completed in order 
to meet Cs responsibilities under the various legislative and regulatory 
requirements - independently from Cs sales representative. In any event, it 
appears Ms L still retained the benefit of a 14-day cooling off period, should 
she have changed her mind.
Management charges
The PR argues that the associated obligation to pay management charges for the 
duration was unfair under the UTCCRs. Its important to consider how the 
membership operated in practice, including how Ms L could exit the contract beyond 
the initial 14-day cooling off period. 
The PR havent provided all the relevant documentation that governs the points 
membership held by Ms L. But this service has seen various membership associated 
documents. Although not necessarily from the time of the sale, they ultimately apply 
to the membership Ms L holds. In particular, documentation from October 2010, and 
where subsequently updated in December 2015. So, Ive considered if these couldve 
led to unfairness.
Article 122, October 2010 details what happens if a member fails to pay the due 
charge. They include extensive powers for C to make such debts immediately 
payable. C could also remove a members points or membership. I cannot see any 
de minimis debt clause.
2 of Cs articles of associationIn December 2015, article 12.2.7 introduced the concept of membership suspension, 
rather than removal. And the scheme regulations were also amended. I believe this 
meant that members fees didnt continue to accrue during suspension. And based 
upon this, I think its unlikely a court would consider the suspension terms created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship. I understand Ms Ls membership was suspended 
from use due to the non-payment of the 2016 management fees. So, Cs actions 
appears to comply with the amended scheme regulations, and Ive seen no 
suggestion that further fees accrued thereafter.
I also note that the courts previously held that a clause within the acquisition 
agreement created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. But its important to 
consider each case on its own merits. The presence of an unfair, or potentially unfair 
term alone wont, in my view, mean a court would automatically deem the 
relationship unfair. And in Ms Ls case, I havent seen (and it hasnt been alleged) 
that terms have been applied or operated unfairly against her.
Under article 7.2, a member could give notice to terminate. When read in conjunction 
with article 7.5, I believe a member wasnt obliged to pay outstanding fees before 
being able to give notice to terminate. Any outstanding fees and charges that would 
still be payable - including in the current year - could be paid after giving termination 
notice. So, I dont believe they would continue to accrue, and membership would, 
therefore, be suspended. I understand a request to surrender the membership was 
submitted in February 2020 following an incident impacting upon Ms Ls partners 
health.
Either way, Ms L had options, including termination or suspension with possible 
reinstatement. The latter could be more favourable. So, I think its unlikely a court 
would say this created an unfair relationship.
Ive also considered article 12.5. Specifically in relation to liability for interest and 
legal costs. I havent found any suggestion that any of these have been incurred. So, 
in this instance, I cant see that this is likely to have created an unfair relationship 
either.
Time to consider the agreement(s)
Point 16 of the Members Declaration states, We have received a copy of our 
Agreement together with the notices and Information Statement (which we have had 
adequate time to review before signing) required under the EU Timeshare Directive 
2008/122/EC. Ms L appears to have signed the declaration and initialled next to this 
point. The wording of the claim appears ambiguous as to whether Ms L did (or didnt) 
receive a copy of this information. So, in the absence of an evidence to the contrary, 
Ive no reason to conclude that Ms L didnt receive this document. 
The documentation from the time of the sale clearly explains that Ms L had 14 days 
from the date of agreeing to the purchase within which to cancel the agreement 
without giving any reason. In particular, this is included in schedule 2 of the 
Acquisition Agreement which Ms L also signed. 
So, even if I were to find that Ms L wasnt given adequate opportunity to read and 
consider the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - and I make no such 
finding - I would expect her to have had sufficient time in which to consider her 
decision within the subsequent 14 days based upon that documentation. And, where 
appropriate, raise any questions or concerns before the loan was drawn and the 
purchase completed. Theres no suggestion or evidence that Ms L did raise any 
questions or concerns prior to the sale being completed. Or that she had any 
intention of cancelling the agreement.Ive also seen a copy of the loan agreement that Ms L entered into in September 
2011. It also clearly details Ms Ls right to withdraw from the loan agreement within 
14 days without giving any reason. So again, even if I were to find that Ms L wasnt 
given time to consider the documents at the time of the sale - and I make no such 
finding - in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I cant fairly conclude that 
there would have been any cause for making the relationship unfair under Section 
140A.
The sales process
Various allegations have been made by the PR about the process and tactics used 
by C leading up to and as part of the sales presentation at the time. But I havent 
seen any evidence from the time, or statements to support those allegations. Theyre 
supplemented by a number of points included in the Counsels Submission about 
allegations of pressure. However, these were generic points and not specific to Ms 
Ls recollections of the sale. So, I dont think they offered much help in making factual 
findings of pressure in Ms Ls case.
Ms L had already purchased a trial membership of a very similar product with C. And 
even though its suggested this membership wasnt used, I think it would be fair to 
say that she knew she was buying a timeshare product. And even if I was to find that 
some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely that a court might say this led to a sufficiently extreme 
imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Its argued that the sales presentation wasnt advised as such and  by implication  
Ms L didnt know what she was attending until there. Further, there are suggestions 
that C used pressurised tactics. 
C has confirmed the obligation to attend a presentation only applied if travelling on a 
promotional holiday  as was the case here. Further, theyve confirmed that this was 
made clear to Ms L during the booking process and as part of the booking 
confirmation. 
I dont doubt that Ms L may have found it difficult to say no to C when purchasing the 
points product. Not least because she may have felt she was getting the product at a 
saving by agreeing to the purchase at the time. But Ive found nothing to show that C 
didnt allow Ms L to say no to the purchase. It seems likely a lot of time was spent 
talking about the benefits of the product. But Ms L was a returning customer whod 
already purchased a trial membership less than a year before. 
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[BPF] and matters relating to the debtor3 [Ms L]).
Whilst there might be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations 
might have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think such a decision is 
likely to be taken within the context of Ms Ls overall experience. And because of 
that, I think it unlikely a court would determine there was sufficient imbalance to 
deem the debtor-creditor relationship as unfair here. 
Interest rate applied to the loan
The PR believe the interest rate charged under the loan agreement was unfair 
relative to other lenders offerings at the time. 
Ive carefully considered the rate that applied in this case and whether it feels fair in 
all the circumstances. Ms L accepted the loan, and the loan agreement clearly set 
3 CCA section 140A (2)out the annual rate of interest (and the APR). Theres no evidence that Ms L raised 
any concerns or questions about the rate at the time, or subsequently. And as far as 
Im aware, she was under no obligation to accept the finance offer and could, if she 
desired, seek to fund the purchase through alternative means. So, Im not persuaded 
that the interest rate payable for the loan demonstrates sufficient cause that a court is 
likely to find Ms Ls relationship with Hitachi is unfair.
Summary
Having considered all the information available, I havent found anything to 
reasonably support Ms Ls complaint that Hitachis response to her claim was unfair 
or unreasonable. And because of that, I dont currently intend to ask Hitachi to do 
anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi said they had nothing further to add and accepted the findings within my provisional 
decision.
The PR confirmed receipt of my provisional decision but didnt agree with my findings for 
the reasons previously submitted. 
Having already fully considered the PRs previous submissions within my provisional 
decision, and with no further comments or evidence provided, I have no reason to vary from 
my previous findings. So, I wont be asking Hitachi to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman