DRN-4115404
The complaint
Miss D complains that her credit card balance with Capital One (Europe) plc has increased 
despite her being in a payment plan where she thought she wouldnt be charged interest. 
Miss D also complains that she cant log into the mobile application because she no longer 
has a card number to be able to do this. Miss D says she hasnt received statements from 
Capital One to help her be able to manage her account. 
What happened
Miss D has had a credit card account with Capital One since December 2000. 
In October 2020, Capital One sent Miss D a letter about persistent debt. This is because 
Miss D had paid more in interest, fees and charges than she had repaid towards the amount 
she borrowed. Capital One provided Miss D with some repayment options, and Miss D 
agreed to stop the spending on the account and pay £149.26 a month until the balance was 
repaid  which Capital One said would take 35 months if she kept to the plan. 
Miss D says that despite her being on a payment plan, her balance has increased. And 
interest has continued to be applied to the balance of the account.
Miss D cancelled the repayment plan in September 2022, Capital One gave Miss D the 
option of setting up a new repayment plan, but she decided not to do this. 
Miss D doesnt feel that the outstanding balance has decreased, and instead she says it has 
doubled. 
Miss D says she cant manage her account using the app because she no longer has a card 
number to enable her to log in. And she says Capital One promised to send her statements. 
Miss D added that she has a direct debit set up with Capital One and they take what they 
like each month  and she has asked for this to be stopped.
Capital One responded to Miss Ds complaints. It upheld her complaint in part and offered 
Miss D £25 because of some issues she had in reading its correspondence. However, it 
didnt uphold her complaints about the other matters she raised.
An Investigator considered information provided by both parties, however they didnt think 
Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. Overall, the Investigator didnt think it was unfair of 
Capital One to apply interest and charges to the account, they felt that Capital One had done 
enough to amend the preferences on Miss Ds account to receive statements by email.
Miss D didnt agree with the Investigators view  she felt that Capital One could have been 
more helpful and she didnt think the debt should remain. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Miss D has raised. I 
dont intend to offend her by not doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. 
This reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I 
think I need to consider, in deciding on whether Capital One did anything wrong.  And having 
considered everything available to me, I havent found that Capital One has done anything 
wrong.
In November 2020, Miss D agreed to enter into a persistent debt repayment plan. As part of 
the plan, she would pay Capital One £149.26 per month for 35 months  and at the end of 
the repayment plan the balance would be repaid in full. The arrangement also meant that 
any further spending on the card was suspended. I can see that Miss D thought that the 
arrangement meant she wouldnt be charged interest, but based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think this was the case. I can see Capital One sent Miss D a letter to confirm details of the 
plan on 19 November 2020. The letter confirmed that Miss D would be charged interest 
while on the plan at 33.68% simple annual rate. So, I cant agree that Capital One has 
unfairly applied interest to the balance while she was in a plan. 
I note that Miss D feels that she should have repaid the balance by now. But I havent seen 
any evidence to support this. I can see that Miss D decided to cancel the plan, and after this 
she made the monthly minimum repayments  until more recently when she stopped making 
repayments altogether. I think its likely the confusion with the amount still left outstanding is 
because Miss D didnt think she was being charged interest while on the plan, which wasnt 
correct. This also means there is still a balance outstanding that is due to be repaid. I havent 
found that Capital One has done anything wrong here. 
I note that Miss D also complained that Capital One didnt agree to stop interest and other 
charges when she asked for it. Capital One said that this was because Miss D was making 
repayments to the account which were over the minimum amount due each month. Because 
the account wasnt behind with repayments it said it wouldnt agree to stop interest, given 
that this is what Miss D agreed to when she took out the account. However, it said that if 
Miss D was having difficulty repaying the debt, then it would look for ways to help her. I think 
Capital One has acted reasonably here. 
I can understand why it must have been frustrating and inconvenient for Miss D to have lost 
the use of Capital Ones mobile app  as this was a convenient way for her to check her 
balance. However, I have noted that Capital One has provided Miss D with an alternative of 
receiving statements. And I can see it provided her with her statements in October 2022. I 
think this is a reasonable resolution. 
I note that Miss D has more recently raised more concerns about the actions of Capital One. 
However, this decision will only consider the issues she initially referred to this service. Any 
further concerns Miss D may have will need to be considered as part of a separate 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman