DRN-4060187
The complaint
Mrs A complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined a claim she 
made on a buildings insurance policy when her patio door fell out of alignment and the glass 
smashed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
The report from the contractor Advantage instructed to review the damage confirms 
the door fell out of alignment due to the track and operating wheels showing signs of 
wear and tear. However, it suggests the glazing could be replaced but this wouldnt 
be possible without [the insurer] inheriting all the wear and tear and potential issues 
that entails. It suggested the insurer consider making a cash settlement for the cost 
of the glazing only. 
Im satisfied the event of the patio door falling would be covered under the accidental 
damage section of the policy. 
Based on the information that has been provided, Im satisfied Advantage would not 
be responsible for repairing the track and operating wheels of the door, or the frame 
itself, as this would be excluded under the policy as the damage more likely than not 
happened due to wear and tear. So this means I wont be asking Advantage to 
reinstall or repair the door frame itself. This would be something Mrs A will need to 
arrange and pay for.
However, the glazing unit of the door broke due to the door falling, not due to wear 
and tear of the glass itself. And therefore, this is something that would be classed as 
accidental damage and fall for cover under the policy. Advantage should therefore 
make a cash settlement to Mrs A to cover its liability in this respect. As it will be 
making a cash settlement, it should do so at the rate it would cost Mrs A to engage 
someone to undertake such action.
Due to this incident Mrs As property has been unsecure which has caused her worry 
and upset. Given I think Advantage should have settled part of this claim when it 
received the report from its contractor, I think it has added to the trouble and upset 
Mrs A has suffered. To put this right I think Advantage should also pay Mrs A £100 
compensation.
Putting things right
Advantage should do the following:
Make a cash settlement to Mrs A for the cost of replacing the glazing unit. It should 
do so at the rate it would cost Mrs A to engage someone to undertake this work.
Pay Mrs A £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint against Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited. It should put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman