DRN-3428869
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Greenlight Credit Limited trading as Varooma lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in March 2022 that I summarise below.
From what I understand, Mrs C was given 11 logbook loans by Varooma between 2013 and
2020. The loans were secured against a vehicle that she owned. In summary these loans
were:
DATE AMOUNTTOTAL 
REPAYABLEMONTHLY 
REPAYMENT DURATION
1 Sep-13 2000 3869 215 18
2 Nov-13 500 828 69 12
3 Oct-14 1000 2080 115 18
4 Jan-15 2500 4687 312 15
5 Jun-15 3200 6000 400 15
6 Feb-16 3200 5800 386 15
7 Aug-16 3500 6125 408 15
8 Jul-17 3500 5906 393 15
9 Feb-19 1000 1700 141 12
10 Aug-19 2000 3600 300 12
11 Jan-20 2625 5775 320 18
Some of the loans ran concurrently. When Mrs C took each loan she generally settled the
previous loan and took the remaining amount in cash.
Varooma said that Mrs Cs complaint about some of her loans couldnt be investigated by
this Service as her complaint was raised outside the time limits. An Ombudsman decided
that this Service could investigate Mrs Cs complaint about all of her loans.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Varooma needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I said that Varooma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't 
lend to Mrs C irresponsibly. And that Varooma had to carry out proportionate checks each 
time to satisfy itself that Mrs C could repay the loans in a sustainable way. 
I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Varooma asked Mrs C for information about her income and expenditure and gathered other
information. But I didnt think that Varooma made a fair lending decision in regard to any of 
the loans and I explained why.
Varooma was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans. But
from what Id seen, Mrs C was not working when she took the loans so Varooma based its
assessment of whether each loan was affordable for her by assessing the income of her
partner, Mr C, and it verified Mr Cs income by requesting his payslips.
I thought about whether it was fair for Varooma to rely on Mr Cs income when assessing
the affordability of these loans for Mrs C. But Varooma was lending to Mrs C alone  it was
not lending to Mr C nor were these joint loans. It was Mrs C who was liable under the loan
agreements to repay the lending. Varooma was required to establish whether Mrs C could
afford the loans. I didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Varooma to rely on a third partys 
income when it assessed whether Mrs C herself could sustainably repay her loans. I 
accepted that Mr Cs monthly salary was paid into a bank account to which Mrs C appears to 
have had access, but Mr C could have chosen at any point to re-direct his salary into 
another account  Mrs C effectively had no control over this.
I thought Varooma should reasonably and fairly have assessed whether Mrs C as the 
borrower was in a position to repay the loans herself, based on an assessment of her 
financial circumstances, and not on that of her partner. From what Id seen, Mrs C was in 
receipt of child tax credits, but she doesnt seem to have been receiving regular income from 
any other source when she applied for the loans.
I thought these were expensive loans and Mrs C had to maintain her loan repayments over 
an extended period each time. I thought Varooma ought reasonably to have considered 
whether Mrs C as the borrower could afford the loan repayments. I didnt think Varooma 
made fair lending decisions when it provided Mrs C with these loans. Had Varooma fairly 
assessed Mrs Cs circumstances, it ought reasonably to have realised that she wasnt 
receiving a regular income and would most likely struggle to repay the loans herself 
sustainably over the extended loan terms. In these circumstances, I thought Varooma ought 
reasonably to have concluded it wasnt appropriate to lend to her.
Did Varooma act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I noted the number of loans Mrs C took, and the extended period in which she was indebted
to Varooma. I thought that Varooma also ought reasonably to have realised that by 
continuing to lend, it was effectively prolonging Mrs Cs indebtedness, by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period. As a responsible lender, Varooma should have 
reasonably questioned whether it should continue lending to this consumer, whose repeated borrowing suggested that by loan 7, she had become reliant on the lending to meet her 
financial obligations.
I hadnt seen anything which made me think Varooma treated Mrs C unfairly in some other
way. But taking everything into account, I didnt think it should have agreed to provide any of
the loans to her. I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and invited the parties to 
provide me with any further evidence or comment.
Mrs C has accepted my provisional decision. Varooma says that it doesnt fully agree with 
my provisional decision and has made a number of comments, all which I have taken into 
account when reaching my final decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Varooma has told us it considers each loan was affordable for Mrs C and that its lending and 
interest rates did not breach any rules. Varooma asks what proof has been provided to show 
that Mrs C did not have a regular income when it provided the loans to her.
I reviewed the evidence that Varooma provided which showed that it based its assessment 
of whether the loans were affordable for Mrs C by assessing the income of her partner, Mr 
C, and it verified this income by requesting his payslips. Ive not seen anything in the 
information gathered by Varooma at the time that showed that Mrs C provided any evidence 
to the lender that she was employed and in receipt of a regular income from employment. 
Varooma thinks the loans were affordable for Mrs C but as I explained in my provisional 
decision, Varooma was lending to Mrs C alone  it was not lending to Mr C nor were these 
joint loans. It was Mrs C who was liable under the loan agreements to repay the lending. I 
dont think it was fair or reasonable for Varooma to rely on Mrs Cs partners income when it 
assessed whether Mrs C herself could sustainably repay her loans.
Varooma has also queried what Ive said about its lending from loan 7.  Notwithstanding 
what Ive said about the fairness of lending to Mrs C based on an assessment of her 
partners income, I think that Varooma also ought reasonably to have realised that by 
continuing to lend, it was effectively prolonging Mrs Cs indebtedness, by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period. I think that this consumers repeated borrowing 
ought reasonably to have suggested to Varooma that she had become reliant on the lending 
to meet ongoing financial obligations. But in any event, as I have explained, I dont think 
Varooma made a fair lending decision about the loans when it assessed whether or not Mrs 
C was in a position to sustainably repay the lending herself, as she was obligated to do so. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence and comments made  including all the 
comments made by Varooma in response to my provisional decision. Neither Varooma or 
Mrs C has provided any new evidence that changes my mind about this complaint, so I 
confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I dont think Varooma ought reasonably to have provided Mrs C with the loans. So Varooma 
needs to put things right.Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs C to repay the principal amount that she borrowed
each time because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and
charges on loans that shouldnt have been provided to her.
Varooma should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loans and treat all the payments Mrs C 
made as payments towards the capital amounts borrowed.
If reworking Mrs Cs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Varooma should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Varooma 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs C, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Varooma might have already returned the logbook to Mrs C, but if it has not done 
this, it should cancel the bills of sale and return the V5 document to her once any 
outstanding capital has been repaid.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to deduct tax from this interest. Varooma
should give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Greenlight Credit Limited 
trading as Varooma to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman