DRN-2066000
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have caused him substantive 
financial loss, distress and inconvenience by unfairly blocking his money transfer abroad.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr B instructed Barclays to transfer around £265,000 to his nominated 
bank account abroad. This was to facilitate the purchase of a property he was looking to 
move into.  
Mr B says he attended a Barclays branch on 17 October 2019 and went through the process 
with its staff to make the transfer. He says he was told the payment would be processed. 
Mr B, along with family and friends, took a ferry to his international destination on 
22 October 2019. Mr B says he didnt have any phone signal given he was on a ferry. 
Mr B says he arrived in the country late afternoon on the 23 October 2019, after which they 
drove, till the early hours of the 24 October, to their destination. Upon arriving there Mr B 
tried to make a payment using his Barclays debit card  and this was declined.
Mr Bs daughter, who is his representative, says that completion was due on 
23 October 2019. Mr B says he discovered on the 23 October 2019 that his payment hadnt 
arrived in the new account. She says Mr B missed a call on 21 October 2019 from Barclays 
 and when they called the number, they were told someone would try and call them back. 
Mr B says he then spent a significant time on the phone trying to sort out the transfer of his 
funds on the phone to Barclays and the matter caused him a lot of stress and inconvenience. 
After some time Mr B was able to get this resolved and the funds were transferred and 
reached his international nominated account on the 25 October 2019. 
Mr Bs daughter says because of this delay Mr B lost the property and the deposit of 
£35,000. She adds that Mr B has suffered further financial loss of around £10,000 in legal 
fees and other costs, which includes the cost of paying for alternative accommodation. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr B complained to Barclays. In summary, Barclays said 
in its final response letter: 
Mr Bs £265,000 transfer had been picked up by its Fraud Detection System for 
additional security checks on 21 October 2019;
as per the terms and conditions of the account Barclays can delay or cancel 
payments at any time;
the fraud detection system is there for the security and protection of Mr Bs account;
blocks were applied on 22 October 2019 after the transfer could not be confirmed as 
genuine;
the blocks were removed on the 25 October 2019, and the payment was transferred 
to the destination bank;
for the severe inconvenience this matter caused Mr B, Barclays credited his account 
with £400
Mr B then referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter, and 
in summary they concluded:
Barclays didnt act unfairly when it blocked the £265,000 payment given the legal and 
regulatory obligations it must adhere to. The checks are in place to protect customers 
from fraud and scams;
Barclays ought to have attempted to contact Mr B more than it did between 22 and 
23 October 2019. But even if it did, it would have made no difference given Mr B had 
no signal on the ferry;
Mr B called Barclays on 24 October 2019, and the funds were subsequently released 
the following day. So there were no unnecessary delays in the money being sent 
once confirmed as genuine;
Barclays couldve been clearer when Mr B set-up the payment in branch that there 
could be additional checks, and it couldve done more to contact Mr B
Barclays offer of £400 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
In response to what our investigator said, amongst other things, Mr B has made the following 
points: 
He was denied the opportunity to speak to a senior manager whilst speaking to 
Barclays about releasing the funds;
The person he spoke to went to lunch without getting another Barclays colleague to 
continue with his request for nearly an hour;
Barclays failed to grasp that the deadline for the payment abroad was the 
24 October 2019, and failure to do so is classed as a default, forfeiture of deposit and 
a possible claim by the vendors solicitor;
If the fraud department had examined the transfer paperwork, it wouldve seen it was 
signed by two Barclays branch employees;
he has been a long-standing customer of Barclays with no history of unusual 
payments.  
Mr B later added: 
he is not against the actual investigation that Barclays carried out, he understands in 
these times why such steps are necessary;
but it is the way it was carried out, the rudeness and time he was left in limbo;
Barclays placed no urgency on his deadline;
he wasnt advised his transfer may be scrutinised once hed instructed it;
why wasnt his character and history of banking considered;
if Barclays had investigated the source of his funds, it wouldve seen it was legal 
and that they were the proceeds of a house sale;
Barclays ought to have contacted Mr B sooner than it did  when the systems put the 
transaction into the fraud process. Which would have been before Mr B left the UK, 
so Barclays denied him the opportunity to resolve the matter in the UK
It follows that this matter has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator for the pretty much 
the same reasons. I know this will disappoint Mr B, so Ill explain why. And in doing so Id like 
to assure Mr B that I have carefully considered all the points he, his representative and other 
contributors to his complaint have made  even if that means I dont answer each point hes 
made directly.  
The first question I need to ask myself is whether Barclays have done anything wrong in 
blocking Mr Bs payment. I note Mr B accepts this course of action was justifiable given the 
times we live in. And having thought about this carefully, Im satisfied Barclays hasnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by taking steps to protect its customer. This was a large transaction, 
and uncommon to Mr Bs usual activity.  
Its also worth noting that all banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing customer relationship. That sometimes means banks 
need to restrict payments and accounts until further checks have been done. 
Next, I note Mr B feels Barclays couldve have contacted him much sooner, possibly whilst 
he was still in the UK. Barclays dont have any record of Mr Bs branch meeting that put in 
place the transaction. So in the absence of anything to the contrary, Ill accept that the 
transfer was instigated in branch on the 17 October 2019. 
The 17 October 2019 was a Thursday. Barclays internal records show the transfer was 
made on Monday 21 October 2019. Barclays say this was picked up by its international 
payments team on the same day. Given the payment was likely instructed at the end of the 
week followed closely by the weekend, I dont think there was a substantive delay in this 
payment being processed by Barclays. 
Mr Bs daughter says Mr B was left a phonemail on the 21 October 2019 from Barclays, 
which he tried to call back but was advised sorry we missed you today. If we still need to 
speak to you we will try again later. If not, dont worry, theres nothing further for you to do. 
Barclays have given me screenshots of its internal records. I cant see any information about 
a call being attempted on the 21 October 2019. But I note a call was attempted but failed as 
Barclays were unable to verify Mr B on 22 October 2019. The note says this was because of 
background noise and Mr B had hung up. This is understandable as its likely Mr B was 
either travelling to the ferry or it had departed. There is then a further internal note which shows Mr B had been on the phone on the 
24 October 2019. It shows Mr B had confirmed the payment as genuine and that Barclays 
could remove the blocks. Barclays agent leaves a note to request if this matter could be 
looked into. The next call note, also dated 24 October 2019, shows Mr B failed his security 
verification again. 
The following day the block was released as Barclays had seen that Mr B had confirmed the 
payment was genuine. I dont think the funds reaching the destination account the very next 
day is an unreasonable delay on Barclays part. 
At this point Id like to assure Mr B, that Ive also carefully read the statements he has 
provided from one of his travelling party  who I assume is a friend. And I note that the whole 
matter, and substantive time Mr B spent on the phone to Barclays has caused him 
substantive distress and inconvenience. I also note this was exacerbated by the formal 
process required to complete a property purchase in the country Mr B intended to move to. 
This statement also highlights that many calls, for a substantive time, were carried out by 
Mr B and his friend on the 25 October 2019 - after which the transfer was expedited given 
the completion date had already passed two days prior. 
Mr Bs friend then explains that Mr B decided to pull out of the purchase as the next 
available date for all parties to be available for the formal stage of the completion was the 
29 October 2019, even if this meant losing the 10% deposit he had already paid. 
This suggests Mr B made a conscious decision not to complete the purchase. I note Mr Bs 
friend explains that this wasnt surprising given the delays, and stress Mr B had been under.
In weighing this matter up, I think a lot of what happened was unfortunate; given Barclays 
was fulfilling its obligations in carrying out further checks. Something Mr B has accepted. But 
Barclays couldve helped matters by explaining things better in branch and by providing 
better customer service when Mr B was trying to remedy the situation. 
Im satisfied that the apology, and £400 Barclays has already paid Mr B, is a fair amount to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset that was caused. It follows that I dont think 
Barclays needs to do any more than it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman