DRN-3994729
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that an equity release lifetime mortgage was mis-sold to 
them by Key Retirement Solutions Limited.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs S want the early repayment charge (ERC) on the 
mortgage to be removed, and for compensation because they say Key failed to allow and 
ensure independent advice was given to them.
Mr and Mrs S are represented in the complaint by their daughter, Miss S.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in the documentation, 
and in the investigators letter dated 30 January 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In February 2019 Mr and Mrs S had two meetings with a representative of Key, following 
which a suitability report was issued setting out all the details of what was discussed, along 
with Keys recommendation.  Mr and Mrs S wanted to pay off their existing mortgage and a 
car loan, carry out home improvements, put money aside for their funeral and have a cash 
reserve. They confirmed to Key theyd discussed their plans with their family. 
After receiving the recommendation, Mr and Mrs S applied for a mortgage with a lender 
specialising in lifetime mortgages. The mortgage completed on 22 March 2017. 
This type of mortgage requires no monthly repayment; instead interest rolls up into the loan, 
which becomes repayable when the last surviving borrower dies or goes into nursing care. 
The mortgage can be moved to another property, subject to meeting lending criteria. If it is 
repaid early, an ERC may be payable, subject to the mortgage terms and conditions.
In February 2022 a complaint was raised with Key by Miss S. She claimed the mortgage had 
been mis-sold, on the basis that her parents suffer with severe mental illness and so could 
not have understood what they were doing. Miss S was concerned that Mr and Mrs S had 
been given independent advice by a solicitor recommended by Key. 
Miss S also said that it was a matter of great concern that the interviews with her parents 
with Key and the solicitors hadnt been recorded on video as most banks and financial 
institutions have been doing for years.  Miss S said that she thought the terms of the 
product were unfair and onerous.
Key didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to our service, where an investigator 
looked at what had happened. She was satisfied that Key had followed all required steps to 
ensure that a full and detailed financial profile was completed before making a 
recommendation. The investigator found no evidence of mis-sale.
Miss S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She reiterated all 
her previous points about her parents mental illnesses, her concerns that the 
contemporaneous documentation wasnt accurate and that there was no evidence that her 
parents had ever had independent advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under our rules, Mr and Mrs S are consumers, and so meet the definition of an eligible
complainant set out in our rules. The rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of
an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by
law. In this respect, Miss S is representing Mr and Mrs S with their authority.
But I must explain that, although Miss S is representing Mr and Mrs S, it is Mr and Mrs S 
who are Keys customers. Miss Ss role as representative is to bring the complaint on behalf 
of Mr and Mrs S, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or 
accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Miss S to air her own 
grievances about Key because she is not its customer; Her role is limited to putting forward 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
I will also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Miss S would like 
answered, its not my role to put those questions to Key or act as a representative or go-
between on this case.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Miss S has expressed her own concerns about 
what she perceives to be Keys failings  and I do not doubt her strength of feeling about 
this. But because she is not Keys customer, this final decision is limited to consideration of 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Key.
Mr and Mrs S hadnt complained about the mortgage advice previously; a complaint wasnt 
made until Miss S first learned about the mortgage. Therefore, without a specific complaint 
from Mr and Mrs S about it, I have considered generally whether Key did anything wrong 
when the mortgage was taken out.
When these products were first offered to the market from the late 1980s onwards, it was 
envisaged that there was the potential for family members to be unhappy once they learned 
that their relatives had taken out an equity release mortgage. Precisely because of this, even 
before mortgage regulation came into effect on 31 October 2004, the sales process for these 
products has always been very robust, with borrowers required to take advice from an 
independent solicitor, as well as an independent financial advisor (in this case, Key).The mortgage was sold in line with the requirements of the Equity Release Council and in 
accordance with the regulations that apply to mortgage sales  the Mortgages and Home 
Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook.
The starting point in a complaint of this type is usually the point-of-sale documentation from 
2017. The value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect 
what was said and agreed at the relevant time. Unless theres a compelling reason to 
believe the information is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it. Even if 
anomalies or mistakes are identified by a representative, that doesnt automatically mean a 
mis-sale has taken place. 
The advice given by Key was based on the information given to it by Mr and Mrs S after 
the advisor went through a detailed series of questions. Key was entitled to accept in good 
faith that what it was told by Mr and Mrs S was accurate and a truthful representation of their 
wishes and circumstances. 
Contrary to what Miss S has said, it is not standard industry practice for banks, building 
societies and financial advisers to video record all interviews with customers, either in 
branch or in the customers homes or business premises. Nor was Key required to request a 
medical report, or to insist on family members being present when discussing financial 
matters with Mr and Mrs S; that would be a gross intrusion into Mr and Mrs Ss privacy.
I wont repeat all the details of what Keys adviser recorded  the investigator has set this out 
in detail in her findings on the complaint and, as I said above, I need to preserve 
Mr and Mrs Ss anonymity. But there is nothing in the information given to Key by 
Mr and Mrs S to persuade me that the advice given on the basis of that information was 
unsuitable.
Im satisfied the documentation provided to Mr and Mrs S about the mortgage explains how 
it worked, and that they also had advice from their own solicitors. There is nothing sinister in 
Key recommending solicitors who are experienced in equity release mortgages. These are 
complex products which require specialist advice. 
The solicitors confirmed to the lender that theyd explained the terms of the mortgage to 
Mr and Mrs S, as well as the implications of entering into the loan. This would include the 
ERC, which is set by the lender, not Key. 
If the solicitors had had any concerns about Mr and Mrs Ss ability to comprehend what they 
was doing, they were under a duty to inform the lender and stop the mortgage from being 
completed. But neither Key nor Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors had any concerns in this regard. 
Mr and Mrs S signed the lenders certificate to confirm theyd been given independent legal 
advice. Miss S says that Mr and Mrs S never met the solicitor, but the documentation 
suggests otherwise.
Overall, the contemporaneous documentation does not lead me to conclude that the 
mortgage was mis-sold by Key, based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs S about 
their wishes, needs and circumstances. If what they had told Key was incorrect or 
inaccurate, Im not persuaded Key would or could have known otherwise.
If Mr and Mrs S are concerned about the legal advice they were given, they will need to take 
this up directly with their solicitors. Other than Key providing a list of specialist solicitors, Key 
had no involvement this part of the transaction. The requirement for Mr and Mrs S to have 
independent legal advice was that of the lender, not Key.I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss S was hoping for. As I said at the outset, whilst I 
appreciate Miss S feels very strongly that the mortgage was mis-sold, I cant take account of 
her opinions, because she isnt Keys customer. However, in all the circumstances of this 
case, Im unable to find that Key has done anything wrong, or that the mortgage was mis-
sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman