DRN-2595838
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd caused delays and breached its own security
requirements in relation to his application to take a lump sum from his pension pot.
What happened
Mr H held a pension plan with Zurich. On 21 January 2020 Mr H had a telephone
conversation with Zurich to enquire about taking a lump sum from his pension pot. After
going through a series of questions with the Zurich operator, Mr H indicated he wished to
take a partial lump sum from his pension. He was offered the option of having the forms sent
to him by email or by post. He selected email.
On 24 January Mr H received the email from Zurich containing the forms and other
information. The same day he emailed Zurich to complain. He said:
(a) That hed completed the claim form, but it didnt indicate it needed to be returned and
no address for return had been provided.
(b) He was sent two guides on how to access a secure email account with Zurich, yet
the documents came as attachments to his normal email address with no necessity
to access Zurich's secure email. This appeared to be a breach of Zurichs own
policies and security protocols.
Mr H said this would delay the return of the documents. Since the pension value varied daily
this could impact the value of the 25% of the lump sum that would be tax free and the
subsequent balance applied to form the total claimed. He wanted Zurich to immediately pay
him the amount referred in the call of 21 January where hed already confirmed all the
questions that are in the document that it now appears isnt required to be sent back to it.
He also said that Zurich had proven in other complaints it couldnt answer simple questions
in writing, and they have problems within their call centres meaning calls arent heard by
their operatives.
Zurich responded to his complaint by letter dated 21 February 2020. In summary, it said that
the letter accompanying the claim documents contained its address and it enclosed a
prepaid envelope in the pack it sent him. Zurich also said that he couldve contacted the
colleague who sent the email. So it didnt uphold that part of the complaint which concerned
not providing an address for return of the forms.
In relation to the other part of his complaint, Zurich said that the email sent explaining how to
open an encrypted email was sent without encryption because he needed to be able to view
the contents. It said no data was included so no breach of the data protection legislation
arose.
Mr H wasnt content with the response, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he didnt think that the documents
emailed to Mr H contained data or sensitive information, so he didnt think thered been a
security breach. He didnt accept Zurichs explanation concerning the address to return the
form to, because he didnt think the letter emailed to Mr H had been sent on letterhead, but
he did think the address was on a pre-paid label. He thought that the documents had been
provided within five working days which was the time period Zurich had said the documents
would be sent within.
Zurich received the completed form on 30 January, after Mr H was given the address during
a telephone call on 27 January. The claim was processed on 31 January and Mr H received
the money in his account on 7 February. Our investigator said this was within the ten
working days for processing a claim that Mr H had been informed of during the telephone
call on 21 January. He thought the turnaround times were reasonable, so he wouldnt be
asking Zurich to do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view. He thought there had been unnecessary
delays and that he didnt need to complete the form. In a later email Mr H said that our
investigator had made much of a pre-paid envelope or file that was supposedly sent to him.
His complaint against Zurich came to me for a decision.
On 9 February 2021 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
Data Security
The essence of this part of the complaint is that Zurich sent Mr H an unencrypted email with
the documents for his pension lump sum claim, thereby breaching its own data security
requirements.
During the telephone call on 21 January 2020, Zurich told Mr H that the documents
concerning his lump sum claim would be sent to him encrypted. Im not persuaded by the
evidence Ive seen that this occurred.
Zurich has been unable to provide a copy of the email sent to Mr H which attached the claim
documents. Mr H has provided a copy of two emails sent to him at his personal email
address on 24 January by Zurich. The first indicates that he will shortly be sent an email that
has been sent securely and to please follow the attached guide for details of how to access
it. The second email was sent a minute later by the same person at Zurich, with the subject
Secure internet mail attaching its letter dated 23 January 2020 and various attachments. Mr
H says the second email came directly to his personal email address and there was no need
to access the secure system as set out in the guide in order to read it and the attachments.
Ive no reason to doubt him, particularly as Zurich havent been able to provide evidence to
the contrary. So I think its more likely than not that Zurich didnt send the email through its
secure system.
In its final response letter to his complaint, Zurich dealt only with the email that attached the
guide for accessing secure emails, which of course would be sent unencrypted. It said no
data was included, so there was no data protection breach. I appreciate that the wording of
Mr Hs complaint mayve caused some confusion for Zurich, but in my view Mr Hs complaint
concerned the email attaching the claim documents and ought reasonably to have been
understood that way.
In early 2020 the law that applied to data protection was the European Union General Data
Protection Regulation, as tailored by the UK Data Protection Act 1998 (the DPA). In my view
some of the attachments clearly contained personal data as defined in the DPA. Among
other things it contained Mr Hs full name, including all middle names, and his planned
retirement date, which I think wouldve reasonably allowed his birthdate to be deduced,
along with the value of his pension pot.If Im correct that its more likely than not that the email was sent directly to Mr Hs personal
email, rather than through Zurichs secure system, then its possible (but not certain) that
Zurich has breached the DPA. I say this because the DPA requires personal data to be
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing using appropriate technical or
organisational measures. Processing personal data includes emailing it, and if Zurichs
processes require the use of an encrypted system and it wasnt used, then there may be a
breach if the use of unencrypted email wouldnt be considered appropriately secure. But I
cant be sure as that would require an assessment of the entirety of the system and
processes.
But even if there has been a breach of the DPA, Im not persuaded there has been any kind
of loss to Mr H arising from the failure to send the email through an encrypted system.
Although Mr H is clearly irritated by Zurich indicating it will use an encrypted system and
then not doing so, theres nothing to suggest that there has been a breach of confidentiality
as a result of this, or any kind of financial loss. Our service can tell a business to pay
compensation if a customer has experienced trouble and/or upset. But there needs to be
more than minor upset. In this case, and looking just at this part of this complaint, I dont
think Mr H has experienced more than minor upset. So I dont propose to tell Zurich to pay
any compensation to Mr H for this possible breach.
Failure to provide return address causing delay
Mr H complains that neither the guide (to taking a lump sum), the covering letter nor the
claim form make any suggestion that the claim form needs to be returned, completed, to
Zurich, and do not provide any address to send it to.
In my view the clear implication of all the documents that Mr H refers to is that the claim form
must be returned in order to make a claim for a pension lump sum. I say that because, for
example, the guide refers to delays in processing if both forms sent back together, and the
letter refers to what will happen if the claim form is returned more than six months from the
date of the letter. I also think that the fact a claim form is enclosed necessarily means it
needs to be completed and returned. Mr H was also told during the phone call on 21 January
that once hed completed the form(s) and sent them back Zurich would begin processing the
claim. So I dont think Mr H could reasonably have been in doubt that he needed to return
the claim form.
I agree that as far as I can tell there is nothing on those three documents that sets out the
address the claim form needs to be returned to. But Mr H has provided an email sent to him
on 21 January 2020 by Zurich. That email attaches a guide for accessing secure email
(which the Zurich representative had indicated would be sent) and gives an address for
returning forms to. The second email of 24 January 2020 which attached the claim form and
other documents also gives the same address for forms to be returned to. So I think Zurich
did provide an address for the claim form to be returned to.
Mr H also said to our service that he shouldnt have had to complete the form as hed
already responded to the information sought in it during the telephone call on 21 January. I
understand that Mr H mayve found having to complete a form that asked for much of the
same information repetitive. But Zurichs processes are a matter for it  Im not able to tell it
to change them. I also understand that Mr H wants Zurich to improve its processes more
generally, but I dont have the power to tell it to do so, my role is to resolve individual
complaints.
Mr H also thought there were unnecessary delays. If this is related to what he thought was a
failure to provide the return address, as Ive said above, I think he was given an address.And Mr H was given the timeframes for sending him the form and processing it on the
telephone call of 21 January. Zurich acted well within those timeframes. It follows from what
Ive said that Im not persuaded that Zurich caused Mr H any loss through delay.
I should add for the sake of completeness, in its final response to the complaint, Zurich said
the address to return forms to could be found on its letter, and on the prepaid envelope on
the pack posted to him. But the letter attached to the email doesnt have any such address
(perhaps because it wasnt sent on letterhead). And its not clear to me that a pack was
mailed to Mr H. Zurichs internal information suggests that where a pack is emailed, it wont
be sent by post. But as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, I dont have any power
to tell Zurich to pay him compensation for any inaccuracies in its complaint response.
In conclusion, subject to any comments the parties may make, I dont propose to tell Zurich
to do anything in relation to Mr Hs complaint, for the reasons I give above. I do appreciate
that this may disappoint Mr H, and I will of course consider any comments he (and Zurich)
make on this provisional decision very carefully.
Zurich accepted my provisional decision, although it commented on one aspect of it which Ill 
deal with later in this decision. Mr H also had several comments which Ill deal with below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think my provisional decision was the right one. 
As Ive said, Zurich accepted my decision. But it commented that although the claims 
correspondence I have doesnt include a return address, this is because the copy letters it 
has supplied are stored in that format  the originals wouldve shown the address and 
contact details. I appreciate Zurich may think thats the case, but as Mr H has also provided 
me with a copy of the Zurich letter without an address, Im not persuaded that the letter 
emailed to him did contain such details. However as Ive found in my provisional decision 
that Mr H was provided with a return address in the two emails, nothing turns on this. 
Mr H said much considerable length had been made of possible violations of the data 
protection acts yet he hadnt made any such complaint. And he didnt think our service was 
established or qualified to rule upon that. He said that was the role of the Office of the 
Information Commissioner. That said, he noted the potential GDPR breach and would be 
more than happy for that to be forwarded on to the relevant authority. 
Im sorry if Mr H is of the view that I considered something that he hadnt complained about. 
Mr H had complained about Zurich potentially breaching its own security protocols. It 
wouldve been helpful if Id made the context of my consideration of the DPA plainer in my 
provisional decision  which was that I was considering whether any failure to comply with a 
security protocol had resulted in any breach of the DPA that had caused financial loss to Mr 
H. We do have the power to consider such issues in certain circumstances, although Mr H is 
right that the Office of the Information Commissioner also deals with complaints about 
possible breaches of the DPA. I didnt need to resolve the question of whether there had 
been a breach because there was no evidence of loss. Mr H is able to refer the issue to the 
ICO if he wishes. 
Mr H is also of the view that Zurichs final response to his complaint includes unsound 
statements, factual inaccuracies and what he says can only be described as deception. He 
says Ive chosen to ignore all of this and conclude that its not our role to advise individual companies on how to operate. He indicates that this may be case, but it is our role to resolve 
disputes between individuals and companies. In his view it is disturbing that Ive found Zurich 
has done absolutely nothing wrong at all and has met their obligations (he says meeting 
obligations wasnt any part his complaint). He was concerned with the way it conducted itself 
and the avoidable frustrations and complications it imposed on what he thought should be 
routine and effortless activity. He thought it was nothing more than an encouragement for 
Zurich to carry on regardless as there are no consequences to however they choose to 
conduct themselves. 
I appreciate Mr H is disappointed with my provisional findings and decision. But having 
reconsidered them in the light of all the facts and evidence and taken into account his 
comments, I see no reason to change them. 
I dont think Ive ignored the issues with Zurichs response to Mr Hs complaint. I dont think it 
was accurate in all respects and I said this in my provisional findings. But as I also said, Im 
not able to provide compensation for complaint handling itself, as its not something I have 
the power to do. We dont have the power to consider complaints about complaint handling. 
Mr H thinks Zurichs processes could be better. But I cant fairly decide a complaint on that 
basis.  As I said, its for Zurich to establish its processes. And in this case I dont think there 
were any unreasonable delays, when measured against Zurichs timeframes as 
communicated to him. So it wouldnt be fair of me to uphold the complaint in those 
circumstances, although I appreciate Mr H doesnt agree.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd neednt do anything to settle the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman