DRN-2691457
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Angel Advance Limited gave them misleading and incorrect 
advice about the settlement figure it could negotiate on debts it was managing.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 23 February 2021. In my provisional decision I said: 
Angel Advance managed debts in Mr and Mrs Cs name for several years. In Spring 2019 
Mr C contacted Angel Advance and explained they had agreed to sell their home and 
business. Mr C wanted to know what sort of discount Angel Advance could negotiate with 
their creditors if they made a lump sum repayment.
During the call, Angel Advances advisor said there was potential to negotiate partial 
settlements with Mr and Mrs Cs creditors. A range of partial settlements were discussed 
from 25% upwards. Mr C agreed that Angel Advance should begin negotiations on their 
behalf with an aim to reach a settlement of around 50% of the total outstanding balance, 
including its fee. Angel Advance said it would begin negotiations around a month after the 
call, in order to give Mr and Mrs C time to complete the sale of their property and 
business.
After the sale completed, Mr and Mrs C got back in touch with Angel Advance and asked for 
details of the settlement figure it had negotiated. But the settlement figures subsequently 
discussed were higher than Mr C says he was led to believe were achievable. Mr and Mrs C 
complained.
Angel Advance responded on 14 June 2019 and upheld the complaint. Angel Advance 
agreed Mr C had been told it would start negotiations with his creditors in the month that 
followed his phone call, but it had failed to do that. Angel Advance said the call handler 
should have explained that before negotiations could begin, the sale of their property and 
business would have needed to complete.
Angel Advance also said the call handler had talked about settlements as low as 25% of the 
outstanding balance but confirmed there was never a guarantee of what a creditor would 
accept. Angel Advance said it was unlikely Mr and Mrs Cs creditors would accept a 50% 
settlement, including its fee.
Angel Advance explained that to negotiate a partial settlement, Mr and Mrs C would need to 
send them an updated income and expenditure assessment and apologised for the service 
provided. Angel Advance apologised for the incorrect information provided to Mr and Mrs C 
during the earlier call.
Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought Angel Advance had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr and Mrs C asked to appeal, so their complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr C had with Angel Advance during which the process of 
arranging partial settlements was discussed. The call handler said that they had dealt 
with a lot of creditors who had accepted partial settlements as low as 25% of the 
outstanding balance. But they also confirmed some creditors refused to accept any partial 
settlements as well.
The call handler said they would normally try to negotiate a settlement of around 50% of 
the outstanding balance and that they could begin negotiations in the month following the 
call. The call handler suggested that it would be possible to include the fee (which would 
have been 25% of the amount saved for Mr and Mrs C) as part of the partial settlement 
figure.
Angel Advances response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint accepts that they were given 
misleading information during that call. Angel Advance has explained that by including its 
fee in the 50% partial settlement figure, it would have actually left substantially less to 
negotiate with on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf. And, Angel Advance has also confirmed that the 
figure quoted wasnt realistic.
In addition, Angel Advance accepts that the process of negotiation wasnt correctly 
explained as it could only begin once Mr and Mrs C completed the sale of their property and 
business. That hadnt occurred when Mr C spoke with the call handler, so they werent in a 
position to start negotiations as was claimed.
I think its clear Mr and Mrs C were given misleading information about what was 
achievable for them and how the process worked. And the amounts involved were 
substantial, so I can understand why Mr and Mrs C were particularly upset to find their 
understanding of the process and what Angel Advance could do didnt match the 
information theyd been given. I can see the misleading information caused distress to Mr 
and Mrs C, so I think its reasonable that Angel Advance pays a settlement to reflect the 
impact on them.
Whilst I agree Mr C was given misleading information, it doesnt appear to have impacted 
their overall position. Mr C confirmed they had already accepted an offer to sell their 
property and business when he spoke with Angel Advance. And the subsequent 
negotiations Angel Advance attempted werent impacted by the information given on that 
call. Whilst I appreciate the partial settlement figures were higher than they were led to 
believe, I havent found evidence to show Mr and Mrs C have lost out financially.
As Im satisfied Angel Advance did cause a reasonable level of distress to Mr and Mrs C 
in this case, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct it to pay them £250. In my view, 
that figure fairly reflects the impact of how upsetting and frustrating the misleading 
information was for Mr and Mrs C.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to respond with any further comments or 
information they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. We didnt hear 
back from Mr and Mrs C. 
Angel Advance responded and said its advisor had made it clear the settlements 
discussed werent guaranteed. Angel Advance also said the Mr and Mrs C dont appear to have been inconvenienced by its call handlers actions as they havent subsequently 
settled their outstanding debts. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, the call handler did make it clear that the level of debt 
reduction Angel Advance could achieve was subject to negotiation with individual lenders. 
But, I remain of the view that they gave misleading information and advice about the process 
involved. The call handler said they thought it was realistic that Mr and Mrs C could achieve 
a 50% reduction, including Angel Advances fee. But Angel Advance has since confirmed 
that wasnt a realistic approach. 
In addition, at the end of the call, Mr C was left with impression Angel Advance would begin 
active negotiations with their creditors which was wrong. Again, Angel Advance has 
confirmed the process couldnt start until the sale of their property and business had gone 
through or without Mr and Mrs C completing an income and expenditure assessment. I 
remain of the view that the misleading information and advice provided caused a reasonable 
level of distress for Mr and Mrs C in this case. 
Ive considered the points Angel Advance has made in its response to my provisional 
decision, but I havent been persuaded to change my view concerning how to fairly resolve 
this complaint. I still think Angel Advance provided misleading and inaccurate information to 
Mr C when setting out its ability to negotiate partial settlements and the process involved. 
And I still think Mr and Mrs C were caused a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience 
by Angel Advances actions. As a result, Im going to proceed in line with my provisional 
decision and uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Angel Advance Limited to pay Mr and 
Mrs C £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman