DRN-3837691
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Skrill Limited (Skrill) closed his account without notice.
Background
In July 2022, Skrill took the decision to review Mr As account. As a result of its review, Skrill 
decided to close Mr As account with immediate effect. Mr A complained about Skrills 
actions. Skrill didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. He didnt think that Skrill had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Skrill acted unfairly towards Mr A 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr A, a financial institution is generally under no obligation to 
continue offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr A is 
unhappy that Skrill closed his account. However, each financial institution has its own criteria 
and risk assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a 
customer with an account is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to 
take. 
Furthermore, while Mr A is unhappy that his account was closed without notice, having 
reviewed everything, including Skrills actions and the information provided, Im satisfied that 
Skrill acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account when taking the action it did. 
So Im satisfied that Skrill had sufficient grounds to close Mr As account and as such its 
decision to block and then close it wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Skrills 
decision will have been very disappointing to Mr A and I can appreciate why the closure of 
his account will have caused him inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position 
to be able to tell Skrill it should have continued offering Mr A an account in circumstances 
where it legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide him with one.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Skrill has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Skrill was entitled to close his account in the way that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman