DRN-3237226
The complaint
Mr G complained that his claim was unfairly declined under his home contents policy with 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). 
What happened
Mr G said his property was burgled whilst his wife and himself were away from the home. 
The burglary was discovered by someone working at his home. His house had been 
ransacked and a safe that was bolted to the wall was wrenched off and stolen.
Mr Gs son went to check on the house. The front door was locked, but the son found a front 
window open and the patio doors at the rear of the property open. Mr G said a forensic 
officer wasnt sure how a burglar entered the property, but thought it was likely through the 
patio doors. Mr G said the officer thought the intruder may have been wearing gloves as he 
couldnt find any fingerprints.
Mr G made a claim on his policy for the theft of photography equipment. Aviva said there 
was no clear evidence of forced entry, so the claim wasnt covered by the policy. Mr G was 
unhappy as he said hed successfully claimed for the same incident on another policy that 
was taken out to cover other contents at his home. Mr G felt Aviva changed tack a few times 
to try and get the claim declined. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. As there wasnt any evidence provided 
of a forced or violent entry to the property, she thought Aviva had applied the terms of the 
policy fairly. Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva hasnt disagreed that Mr G has had some of his possessions taken. I have no doubt 
the intrusion to Mr Gs private home would have caused his family distress and 
inconvenience, especially if it has resulted in a financial loss. However, I have carefully 
considered this complaint and regrettably, I havent found any evidence that Aviva hasnt 
been fair in how its applied the terms and conditions of the policy. Therefore, I wont be 
upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr G felt aggrieved as he had another policy that paid out for the same incident. I can 
understand this would be frustrating or confusing. However, not all policies have the same 
terms and conditions, so this can impact whether a claim is successful. I can only consider 
Mr Gs claim in respect to the policy he had with Aviva.
I have noted that Mr G felt Aviva tried to decline the claim on several different angles. 
However, I think its reasonable that Aviva asked questions of Mr G to allow it to validate his 
claim. I can appreciate how this may have felt for Mr G, but I think this is a reasonable 
approach and part of the normal process of any claim. I think Aviva has been clear in its final 
response to Mr G as to the reason it declined his claim.
Aviva declined to pay the claim due to an exclusion clause in the policy. I have checked the 
policy. The exclusion clause specific to Section 1 (theft of photography equipment) explains 
that cover is only provided where there is clear evidence of forcible and violent entry or 
exit. Aviva said as there was no evidence of forced entry, it declined the claim.
I think Mr Gs policy documents clearly highlighted the restrictions in place, and I dont think 
this restriction on the policy is unusual. I think its reasonable for Aviva to limit the risk its 
willing to cover, in the same way I think its reasonable for a policyholder to have free choice 
whether to accept the terms of a policy.
Although Mr G said a police report was created, this hasnt been made available to me, so I 
havent had the opportunity to review this. However, Ive considered Mr Gs own account of 
what happened. Mr G told our service that there wasnt any evidence of entry, although he 
told us the forensic officer had indicated the entry point was likely to be through the patio 
door. I think its fair for Aviva to rely on evidence provided by Mr G, when applying the 
exclusion clause. There has been no evidence of how the intruder entered the property, so I 
think Aviva was reasonable in concluding entry wasnt forced. Ive also noted that Aviva said 
if Mr G can provide evidence of forced entry later, then it would be willing to re-consider the 
claim. I think this is reasonable and Mr G still has this option open to him.
In summary, as there is no evidence of an entry point to the property, or forced and violent 
entry, I think Aviva has been fair in declining the claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Its not clear what all the circumstances of this burglary are. The terms of the 
policy are such to limit Avivas liability when for example, a window was left open or a door 
unlocked. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman