DRN-2777763
The complaint
Mr F and the estate of Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plc  trading as Alliance & 
Leicester Commercial Bank (Santander) has not offered fair compensation for the mis-sale 
of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to Mrs Fs current account.
What happened
Mrs F held a current account with Santander. 
In 2020 Mr F complained to Santander about the sale of a PPI policy attached to Mrs Fs 
account. 
In November 2020 Santander wrote to Mr F. 
Santander offered to refund the PPI premiums that had been charged to Mrs Fs account. 
The letter went on to say that Santander held no records of the account. However it said it 
would refund one premium of £1.44 paid in October 2001 plus compensatory interest 
calculated at 8% simple. The total offer was for £3.21.
Unhappy with Santanders response Mr F asked this service to step in.
Mr F told us he had given Santander copies of some old statements that showed at least two 
payments of £1.44 for PPI in August and September 2001. Mr F said that Mrs F had opened 
the account when she began a new job many years earlier. The few statements he had 
retained were numbered consecutively  and indicated the account was opened some 21 
years earlier. So Mr F thought Mrs F had been charged PPI throughout this time.
An adjudicator from this service sent the statements dated August and September 2001 to 
Santander and pointed out that both showed a payment of £1.44 charged on 16 July 2001 
and 16 August 2001 respectively. 
Santander replied to say it was willing to refund premiums of  £1.44 plus interest for the 
months July 2001 through to January 2002 when its records show the account was closed.
The adjudicator didnt think this was a fair approach to take and suggested Santander 
assume the PPI was added at the midway point between the account being opened and its 
closure in January 2002.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I will explain why.
Where a PPI has been mis-sold this service expects a business to put the consumer, as far 
as is possible, in the financial position theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold. This would 
normally involve the business refunding all PPI premiums plus compensatory interest for the 
time the consumer has been out of pocket.
Where there are limited records of the account and PPI premiums paid, Santander should 
know this service expects a business to make reasonable assumptions about what PPI 
premiums were paid.
In this case I dont think Santander has made reasonable assumptions.
Santander has simply assumed that Mrs F began paying PPI premiums from 16 July 2001 
which is the date taken from the earliest statement retained by Mr F.
Santander has said it would be happy to review its position if Mr F can provide any further 
statements. This service doesnt think its reasonable to expect a business to retain records 
indefinitely. But equally it isnt reasonable to expect a consumer to do so either.  
Santander may say there is no evidence Mrs F paid PPI premiums earlier than July 2001, 
but I have not seen any evidence to show that she didnt pay PPI premiums earlier than July 
2001.
The adjudicator suggested taking a midpoint between when the account was opened and 
when it closed as the starting point for the PPI policy. Santander has replied to restate its 
original offer but has not made any other suggestion.
While I accept it is possible Mrs F was sold the  PPI as late as July 2001, it is just as likely, 
perhaps even more so, that she was sold the PPI policy when she first opened the account.
So taking everything into account I think it is fair and reasonable to assume the PPI was sold 
to Mrs F at the midpoint from when she opened the account to when it was closed. And I 
think Santander should calculate the compensation based on this assumption.
We know the account was closed in January 2002.
Looking at the numbered statements it looks like they were issued monthly. I see the August 
2001 statement is numbered 252. So by dividing 252 by twelve it looks like the account had 
been open for 21 years and was likely opened in August 1980. This corresponds with Mr Fs 
recollection that Mrs F opened the account when she started a new job.
The midpoint between August 1980 and January 2002 is April 1991.
So Santander should assume the PPI was added to Mrs Fs account in April 1991.
The PPI premium appears to be a fixed monthly amount and Santander has no records of 
the premiums paid. So Santander should assume the PPI premium was £1.44 from the 
outset.
 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs Fs estate in the position it would be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. So Santander should :Pay Mrs Fs estate the amount she paid each month for the PPI. Santander should 
assume she paid £1.44 per month from April 1991 to January 2002.
Add simple interest to each payment from when Mrs F paid it until it is paid to her estate. 
The rate of interest is 8% simple a year (15% simple before April 1993) .
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs Fs estate a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if asked.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc  trading as 
Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank to pay Mrs Fs estate compensation as set out in this 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and the 
estate of Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman