DRN-2812479
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car supplied by Vauxhall Finance plc under a conditional sale 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In March 2017 Miss C took a new car on a four-year conditional sale agreement from
Vauxhall Finance (then GMAC UK plc). The car was priced at just over £18,700. Miss C paid
a deposit of £2,100 and was then to make monthly payments of £261.85, followed by a final
payment of just under £6,000.
In December 2018 the car cut out while Miss C was driving it at speed. Some repairs were
carried out, but the same thing happened shortly afterwards. The car was returned to the
dealership, which concluded that it needed a new engine. The engine and gearbox were
replaced under warranty and the car was returned to Miss C in March 2019.
In July 2019 the cars engine cut out again. The dealership advised that another replacement
engine was needed. This work was done  again under warranty  and the car was returned
to Miss C in August 2019.
By this point Miss C says that she had lost confidence in the car and wanted to
reject it. Vauxhall Finance said however that the car had been of satisfactory quality; Miss C
had had it for 21 months before it needed a replacement engine.
Miss C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered her
complaint. He thought that the car had not been of satisfactory quality at delivery. Since the
problem with the engine had occurred twice, he thought that Miss C should be entitled to
reject the car. He recommended that Vauxhall Finance accept its return, refund the deposit
and end the conditional sale agreement. He also recommended a payment of £250 in
recognition of the inconvenience to which Miss C had been put and the distress she had
suffered.  
Vauxhall Finance didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an
ombudsman review the case. In the meantime, the four-year finance agreement came to
an end and Miss C returned the car. She says that she did not use the car much after
August 2019, although she had had no problems with it since the second engine 
replacement.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said:
The conditional sale agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would 
be of satisfactory quality  meaning it would be of the quality a reasonable person would 
expect in the circumstances. The car was new and was supplied with a manufacturers 
warranty. Miss Cs use of it had not been unusual  around 7,000 to 8,000 miles a year. 
I did not believe a reasonable person would expect a new car to need a replacement 
engine after less than two years, still less two replacement engines and new gearbox.
I did not agree with Vauxhall Finances argument that its liability was limited to the point 
of sale and the first six months after that. Satisfactory quality includes durability, and I 
thought it likely that there had been problems with the car at delivery, even if they only 
came to light later. 
I noted too that Vauxhall Finance was responsible for the quality of the car at the point 
of sale, even though it came with a manufacturers warranty; that supplemented 
Vauxhall Finances liability but did not replace it.
Repairs had been carried out under warranty and at no cost to Miss C. Once the second 
set of repairs had been carried out, Miss C had no further issues with the car. She said 
she had not used it much after that, but that was because she had lost confidence in it, 
not because of any further faults. 
Once the second set of repairs had been carried out, I thought that the car had been of 
satisfactory quality. I did not believe it would therefore be fair to unwind the finance 
agreement as the investigator had recommended. The effect of that would be to treat 
Miss C as if she had had no use of the car. Instead, I recommended a payment of £500 
to reflect the inconvenience to which Miss C had been put and the distress she had 
suffered. 
In response to my provisional decision Vauxhall Finance said it had nothing to add, although 
it did ask that I issue a final decision. Miss C too said she had no further comments and that 
she was happy with the outcome.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss C nor Vauxhall Finance has anything to add in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to reach any different conclusion. I shall however make a formal 
award so that Miss C can enforce it, should that be necessary.    
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Miss Cs complaint in full, Vauxhall Finance plc should (if 
it has not already done so) pay Miss C £500.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman