DRN-3995085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the service provided by Rock Insurance Services Limited in 
relation to a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs A took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy. This 
policy was administered by Rock.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent government restrictions, Mr and Mrs A
cancelled three trips they had booked so they wanted to make a claim under their policy for
the unused and unrecovered costs.
Mr and Mrs A said they checked on the insurance providers website and attempted to
contact the claims department on numerous occasions from March 2020 to May 2020 by
phone but were unsuccessful. They said the phone lines went dead after a period of time.
Mr and Mrs A attempted to call the customer services number but again this didnt appear to
work. They also said they sent several emails to register their claim but didnt receive any
response. It wasnt until September 2020 that Mr and Mrs A were able to get their claims
registered. Unfortunately, their claims were subsequently declined.
In February 2021, Mr and Mrs A emailed Rock, saying it had failed to provide good customer
service as there wasnt clear information about who they needed to contact to make a claim.
Mr and Mrs A said they had spent a lot of time and effort trying to make the claims and that
Rock had made this more difficult. They requested a refund of the premium as they didnt
think it had any value.
Rock responded to Mr and Mrs A the same day. It said that the problems occurred as the
relevant provider of the insurance was no longer selling travel insurance and this meant the
website which Mr and Mrs A had been contacting was not working. But Rock did say that all
contact details were made available on the email that was sent after they purchased the
policy and that the policy wording provided the details of who to contact to make a claim. In
this email Rock also advised the name of the claims company who should be handling the
claims.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to us. Whilst the matter
was with our service, Rock agreed to make an offer of £50 as it recognised it had directed
Mr and Mrs A to the incorrect claims handling company in its email. Mr and Mrs A didnt
accept this settlement offer and so the matter was looked into by our investigator. He said
that Rock wasnt responsible for the claims company not answering the phone. And any
issue surrounding the outcome of the claims was the responsibility of the insurer, not Rock.
However, he did think that Rock shouldnt have given Mr and Mrs A the wrong claims
company details in its response. And he also thought that Rock had added more worry by
advising that the provider of the insurance was no longer trading. So, he recommended that
Rock should increase the compensation offer to £100.
Neither party responded to say they accepted so, as no agreement could be reached, the
matter was passed to me to decide.
On 15 February 2023 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made.
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs A. Rather it reflects the informal nature of
our service, its remit and my role in it.
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Rock made it difficult for them to complete the claims
process as the phone lines for the claims handling company were not answered. I do
appreciate how frustrating the delay in getting their claims registered must have been and
why Mr and Mrs A feel Rock should have done more to help. However, as explained by our
investigator, any issues in relation to the claims handling company, their processes or claims
decisions arent the responsibility of Rock. So, I cannot hold it accountable for any difficulty
Mr and Mrs A had with registering their claims, nor the decision reached on those claims.
In its email reply to Mr and Mrs A in February 2021, Rock provided Mr and Mrs A with the
details of the claims company that they should be contacting. However, this wasnt the
correct firm. Rock recognised that it did provide the wrong details and offered to pay £50
compensation for this error. Our investigator recommended that Rock should increase the
compensation amount to £100 not only for providing the incorrect details of the claims
company but also for causing upset and worry to Mr and Mrs A when it said the brand of the
insurance was no longer trading.
Ive thought about this carefully and whether it is reasonable to ask Rock to increase their
compensation offer. It is clear that Rock did give out the details of the incorrect claims
company in February 2021. However, Im aware Mr and Mrs A had already registered their 
claims and been given an answer by the insurers by this time. Rock did tell Mr and Mrs A
that the brand was no longer selling travel insurance in this email, and I understand how this
may have caused some concern. But as Mr and Mrs As claims had already been looked into
by this point, I dont think this would have had much of an impact on the outcome. Taking
everything into account, Im satisfied that Rocks offer of £50 compensation is fair and
reasonable. I dont require it to pay anything more.
Mr and Mrs A didnt respond to the provisional decision. Rock did reply to confirm that it 
accepted the outcome reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any dispute to the findings in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change the outcome that was reached in that decision. 
It therefore stands that I think Rocks offer to pay £50 compensation is reasonable and I 
dont require it to pay anything more than this sum.
Putting things right
Rock Insurance Services Limited needs to pay £50 in compensation to Mr and Mrs A. My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I uphold this complaint.
Rock Insurance Services Limited needs to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman