The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold by Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS) in October 1999.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R, who are represented by a third party, say they werent given a choice about 
taking out the over and didnt need it. The mortgage was in joint names but only Mr R was 
covered by the policy. The policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
One of our adjudicators said the complaint about the policy being mis-sold shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs R took out some further borrowing on their mortgage in 2007 
but YBS hasnt found any evidence that any additional PPI was taken. And it checked 
with the PPI insurer to make sure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Im sure Mr and Mrs R honestly and genuinely believe they were mis-sold this cover. 
Their representative says they were told the PPI was something they needed to have to 
get their mortgage approved  in other words, that it was a condition of getting the 
mortgage. But I think they would have been able see, at the time of the sale, that the 
cover was optional.
I say this because to get PPI with the mortgage, YBS required  that a PPI application form 
be filled out as part of the mortgage application process. Having seen a sample copy, and 
from what I know about these sales, I would have expected that filling out this form would 
have helped Mr and Mrs R to understand the PPI wasnt a compulsory product and that it 
was their own choice to buy it and have it added to their new mortgage. 
On their mortgage application, I see that whilst they didnt tick either the yes or no box 
with regard to taking out PPI, there is a handwritten not saying TBA that I take to mean to 
be arranged. I think that suggests Mr and Mrs R were giving some consideration to taking 
DRN-1932717out PPI to go with their mortgage. And so I think its consistent with their having completed 
the PPI application form.  
So I think these things show Mr and Mrs R were afforded an appropriate degree of 
choice. On balance, I therefore think they wanted such a policy and I think YBS properly 
obtained their consent.
YBS said this wasnt an advised sale but it still had a duty to provide information that was 
clear enough for Mr and Mrs R to decide what they wanted to do.
From what Ive seen, its likely that Mr and Mrs R were given a policy document that 
would have explained how the PPI worked. So I also think they would have had enough 
information on which to make an informed choice.
It is of course possible that YBS didnt do everything right or that Mr and Mrs R werent 
told everything they ought to have been. But the evidence Ive seen shows they took part 
in the PPI sale process and wanted this type of cover. They seem also to have been 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in 
these types of policy.
Ive seen that Mr R most likely had some sickness protection already with his job. He and 
Mrs R also had some joint savings. But this doesnt necessarily mean the policy wasnt of 
use. Their mortgage was secured against their home and so the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. In the event of a successful 
claim, the PPI would have helped pay the mortgage for up to 12 months. This would have 
been in addition to the other means they had and would have avoided the need to dig into 
their financial resources.
I therefore think the cover was of use and thats probably why they agreed to buy it by 
signing all the relevant forms. 
It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman