DRN-4214011
The complaint
Mr H complains that the investment strategy recommended by MONEY ADVICE
PARTNERSHIP LTD (trading as FML Wealth) was unsuitable.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 June 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. Ive re-produced the relevant parts of it below and it forms part 
of this final decision.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent her assessment of
the complaint to both parties in February 2023. The background and circumstances to the
complaint were set out in her assessment. However in summary, she said Mr H had been
advised by another firm to transfer deferred benefits he had in an occupational pension
scheme to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension). That firms authorisation ceased shortly
after the transfer. The funds transferred were held in cash in the SIPP, and FML Wealth was
engaged to provide financial advice about how to invest it.
In January 2018 FML Wealth recommended Mr H invest £40,000 through a Discretionary
Fund Manager. Its report covering letter said, amongst other things:
The fund manager concerned is [Name of DFM]. Our review of the underlying investments
which make up their portfolios and the way in which those portfolios are structured across
the various asset classes gives me confidence that their risk rated model portfolios provide
the correct balance of risk and reward. I am also delighted to advise that we have negotiated
a significant discount on their normal charges, bringing them down to highly competitive
levels.
Mr H had transferred £43,866 from his OPS on 10 May 2017. The previous adviser had
taken fees of £1,425. Following FML Wealths advice £40,000 was transferred to the
investment portfolio with the DFM in March 2018. The SIPP annual reports showed a fund
value of £35,840 as at 24 March 2019, £32,625 in the report dated 31 March 2021 and
£29,390 as at 31 March 2022.
Mr H, though a representative, subsequently complained to FML Wealth about the advice
hed been given. The complaint referred to both the advice to transfer and invest through the
DFM. FML Wealth responded to say that it hadnt advised on the transfer and wasnt
responsible for it. It also said:
Based on the outcomes of the fact-find, and risk and capacity for loss assessments 
undertaken, the introduction to the DFM to provide a suitable portfolio was both 
appropriate and in line with their investment process.
The DFM as part of its direct agreement with Mr H and its signing on process 
undertook its own risk assessment and capacity for loss review on Mr H. It was the 
DFMs responsibility to identify an appropriate diversified portfolio to match that 
profile.
Mr H may have a claim against the DFM if the assets it acquired didnt match his risk 
profile.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said there
had been some discussions about the appropriate level of risk for Mr H. Although hed
initially been assessed with a risk profile of 7 (out of 10), it was subsequently decided, after
FML Wealth reviewed some inconsistencies in his responses to an ATR questionnaire, that
he was 6 - High Medium Risk. The investigator thought FML Wealth had been thorough and
ensured it had the correct attitude to risk rating for Mr H.
The investigator said she understood the charges for the DFM were a dealing charge of
0.5%, and annual product charge of 0.75%. FML Wealth didnt charge an initial fee, but
received 0.75% of the fund value per annum to provide ongoing advice.
The investigator noted that FML Wealth had said it had recommended a DFM over an
advisory service as Mr H had little investment experience, and it thought an actively
managed model portfolio run within an agreed set of parameters by a dedicated investment
team was suitable.
The investigator thought given the documentation that was provided to Mr H by FML Wealth
and the DFM, he would have understood the nature of a DFM and what the DFM Agreement
was asking him to confirm he was happy with.
FML Wealth had also provided a copy of the Due Diligence questionnaire it went through
with the DFM. The questionnaire covered topics including Investment Services and
Processes, Client Administration and Service Providers. It was also noted that FML Wealth
had had discussions with the DFM about its charges and this resulted in the DFM
reducing their ongoing charge to 0.75% which compared favourably with general market
rates.
The investigator said Mr H was a direct client of the DFM and as part of their agreement, it
was stated:
Management of your account will accordingly be based on the information that you provide
to us in your Client Information Form and Investment Profiling Questionnaire.
Taking everything into account, the investigator didnt think FML Wealth was responsible for
the actions of the DFM based on the information that Mr H provided to it. She didnt think
FML Wealths recommendation to opt for a portfolio with the DFM was unsuitable.
Mr Hs representative didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary, that
although Mr H had made some alternative investments they had performed poorly, which
would indicate that he was an inexperienced investor rather than that he was experienced. It
also thought the shortcomings of the attitude to risk assessment was that an inexperienced
investor may not understand the importance or relevance of some of the questions being
asked of them.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H had a fairly modest amount to invest through his SIPP  around £40,000. As explainedby the investigator, the charges for the DFM were an initial 0.5% dealing charge, and an
ongoing charge of 0.75%. FML Wealth didnt make an initial charge, but received a 0.75% a
year charge for its ongoing management service  which including providing ongoing advice.
Use of a DFM is usually associated with higher value portfolios. That doesnt necessarily
mean a DFM isnt suitable for portfolios of this size. However I think there would need to be
a good reason to incur the higher costs associated with a DFM given FML Wealth were also
charging Mr H 0.75% a year to monitor his portfolio. Mr H could have invested directly in
funds recommended by FML Wealth aligned to his attitude to risk and at lower cost, with
FML Wealth monitoring the funds selected to ensure they remained appropriate. The use of
the DFM added another layer of unnecessary costs.
FML Wealth has provided copies of information that it obtained from the DFM for its due
diligence. This explained, amongst other things, that the DFM was relatively newly formed,
and had only started business activities a few months before. It had no performance track
record.
FML Wealths recommendation was to invest in the DFMs Growth Portfolio 5. The Model
Portfolios document provided by the DFM for FML Wealth said, amongst other things:
Notes
The approach taken uses the experience since the end of 1999 within the various asset
classes to construct portfolios that are defined by the maximum losses that may have been
suffered. Thus, the client should have some expectation of the 'worst possible scenario' for
their portfolio.
The document said the maximum loss for Risk Level 5 was 30%. The maximum loss for Risk
Level 4 20%, and Level 3 15%.
FML Wealth has said it discussed risk with Mr H and as his ultimately agreed level of risk (6)
remained at odds with the capacity for loss position indicated by his circumstances, the
choice of Level 5 was an attempt to find an appropriate compromise between the
risk profile and the capacity for loss.
However the suitability report specifically recorded Mr Hs standard of living is somewhat
sensitive to fluctuations in the value of your investments and you cannot afford for their value
to fall by more than 20%. This was consistent with the suitability report which said that Mr H
had some other savings and investments that he could call on in an emergency but that his
only other pension was an occupational pension scheme that was due to pay just over
£1,900 per annum.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Conduct of Business Rules required that FML had to have
a reasonable basis for believing that Mr H was able to financially bear the investment risks
associated with transaction. In my opinion the recommendation to invest in the Level 5
Portfolio was inconsistent with Mr Hs capacity for loss - it presented a greater degree of risk
than FML itself had established he was able to accept.
FMLs Confidential Client Agreement outlining its terms of business with Mr H included:
Financial Services Act 2000
Independent Financial Advisers are required to have proper regard for a client's best
interests in any advice given. They must therefore do their utmost to ensure that they are
aware of your personal and financial circumstances so that their advice is the most suitablefor your needs.
On-going Services
Depending on the size and complexity of your portfolio once in place, you may or may not
require on-going management services. It is important to be aware that in the absence of a
specific agreement to provide you with on-going services, your portfolio will not be monitored
unless you contact us to ask for a specific service.
Mr H had opted for the ongoing management service and as Ive said he was paying 0.75%
of the funds value a year for it. Its not in dispute that FML didnt provide any subsequent
reviews of Mr Hs portfolio. Its said that this was due to the lack of information from the DFM
regarding the valuation and make-up of the portfolio despite its repeated requests for it. It
said it later transpired that the DFM didnt use the model portfolios that had been provided to
FML Wealth. It said the investments within the portfolio bore no resemblance to the model
portfolios agreed with the DFM. And it said it included a number of investments which
subsequently failed.
FML Wealth has said it wasnt responsible for the failure of the portfolio given Mr H had his
own separate agreement with the DFM; the DFM completed its own risk profiling exercise
and the DFM had responsibility for its own investment decisions. It also said the DFM didnt
invest Mr H in line with the portfolio model it had indicated.
However Mr H only ended up investing with the DFM because of FMLs recommendation for
it. FML helped arrange for Mr H to invest through the DFM  its role was pivotal. As Ive said
above, given FML Wealth were providing and charging Mr H for an ongoing service to
monitor his portfolio, and given the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the additional
costs were justified or provided good value. In particular given that it was a newly formed
DFM and with no track record, which might have given an indication of the capabilities of the
investment managers discretionary decision making and suggested its performance (whilst
not guaranteed) had a good chance of offsetting the additional costs.
FML Wealth has said the DFM didnt provide it with information about the initial asset
allocation and subsequently didnt provide information despite its requests.
I dont know how the funds were initially invested. However in my opinion the portfolio did at
some stage became unsuitable as evidenced by the later statements showing the portfolio
content in 2021. The January 2021 statement shows a significant proportion of the portfolio
invested in some form of bonds/loan notes. £9,000 was invested in Via Developments Plc
(which appears to have gone into liquidation). And another £6,000 in Sustainable Capital
Plc. These presented significant risks, and in my opinion the overall portfolio wasnt aligned
to the degree of risk that was suitable for Mr H. It presented a greater degree of risk.
FML Wealth has said that it wasnt until the 31 December 2021 valuation that it started to
become clear that something was wrong. And that it instructed the cessation of all ongoing
fees due. Its not clear to me when FML Wealth first asked for information from the DFM. But
given its monitoring obligations, I think this should have been sometime within a few months
after the initial investment was made. So it should have discovered the asset make-up of the 
portfolio at that point. If FML Wealth had asked for information within a few months of the 
start of the portfolio but it wasnt receiving a response, I think this should have caused some 
concern. Particularly as it was a new DFM. In my view it should have taken action if it wasnt 
receiving any information from the DFM, rather than let things drift until 2021. Mr H could 
have withdrawn his authority from the DFM or attempted to move his funds elsewhere. I 
dont know if FML Wealth made attempts to obtain information from the DFM from the off, 
but I dont think it was reasonable for it to, as I understand, do nothing. It should provide evidence of its attempts to contact the DFM when responding to this provisional decision.
If FML had provided the ongoing monitoring service it was obliged to provide it may have
had an opportunity to mitigate Mr Hs position. Its difficult to say to what extent given we
havent got a history of the investments. However my understanding is that FML Wealth was
charging Mr H for the ongoing service but not actually providing that service at all.
So in summary, on the one hand:  
In my opinion the recommendation to use a DFM was unsuitable in the 
circumstances. Given the portfolios modest value and that FML was charging Mr H to 
provide an ongoing monitoring service, I dont think it was worthwhile incurring the 
additional charges associated with the DFM or that it provided good value.
The DFM was also new and had no track record which might have given an 
indication that there was a good chance its performance would more than make up 
for the charges.
FML recommended a portfolio with the DFM that wasnt aligned to Mr Hs 
circumstances. It presented a higher degree of risk.
FML failed to provide the monitoring service that it had contracted to provide. If it had 
done so it may have been able to mitigate the losses suffered by Mr H.
On the other:
Mr H had a direct agreement with the DFM. 
And it appears that, at some point at least, the DFM moved away from investing in 
line with the model portfolio that it had provided to FML Wealth.
FML Wealth was bound by the FCAs Principles for Business. These included PRIN 2, 6 and
9.:
PRIN 2 Skill, care and diligence - A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and
Diligence
PRIN 6 Customers' interests - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of
its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 9 Customers: relationships of trust - A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the
suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely
upon its judgment.
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think the recommendation to invest through the DFM
in its Growth Portfolio 5 was suitable in the circumstances. So I dont think FML Wealth met
its obligations under PRIN 9.
I also dont think it paid due regard to Mr Hs interests or conducted its business with due
skill, care and diligence. It was charging Mr H to monitor his portfolio. It clearly didnt. As I
have said above, its not clear to me when FML Wealth first requested information from the
DFM. But as I have said, even if it was requesting information from the off and the DFM
wasnt responding, I dont think it was sufficient to do nothing. It could have alerted Mr H that
it had no oversight over his portfolio and that he should end his agreement with the DFM.So taking all the above into account, I dont think FML Wealth met its regulatory obligations
to Mr H, and therefore I currently think his complaint should succeed.
I recognise that it can be argued the DFMs actions may have also separately caused some
of Mr Hs loss. So Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility
for compensating the loss to MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD. However as I have said
FML Wealth played a pivotal role in Mr H investing with the DFM. Mr H wouldnt have been
invested with the DFM in the first place if FML Wealth had given suitable advice. It also then
didnt meet its obligations to monitor the portfolio and if it had done so it may have been in a
position to ensure that Mr Hs funds were invested appropriately. My understanding is that it
continued to take fees, but didnt provide any oversight.
.
So, I think Mr Hs losses flow from FML Wealths failures that Ive identified above.
Therefore I think holding MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD fully responsible for the
whole of the Mr Hs loss is fair in this case.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I went on to set out how I thought MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD should calculate 
and pay compensation to Mr H. 
I asked Mr H and MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD (FML Wealth) to let me have any 
further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final 
decision.
MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD (FML Wealth) didnt agree with my provisional 
findings. It said, in summary, that it didnt think the selection of a model portfolio run by a 
DFM was unsuitable in this case. 
It said Mr H had moved his pension to a SIPP with a previous adviser with the intention of 
investing in unregulated products, which clearly indicated a high capacity for risk. In 
determining what investment strategy to recommend to him FML Wealth undertook a 
detailed review with him including discussion on his answers to the risk questionnaire. 
Mr H fully understood what his risk profile was. It said the investment strategy was discussed 
with Mr H and the report was provided to him and he agreed to it in full knowledge of the 
facts.
The firm said the main reason for the losses incurred was the actions of the DFM not 
following the agreed investment strategy and in covering that fact by not providing the six-
monthly valuations stipulated in its client agreement. It said it was too late to do anything 
about the failed investments by that time. It said this was evidenced by the 31 January 2021 
valuation of Via Developments plc (the first such valuation received) still being shown as 
£3,458. But the company had appointed liquidators on 7 July 2020 who indicated no funds 
were available to creditors.
Money Advice said a basic back test of the Model 5 Portfolio (on an appropriate basis) 
showed it would have risen very slightly in value to around £40,500. Had the DFM 
undertaken proper active management within the parameters of the Portfolio it would be 
expected that this figure would be higher. It said comparing that to the Benchmark 
suggested in the provisional ruling would have resulted in a portfolio valued at just under 
£46,000 after charges. Money advice said this showed the performance of the strategy
Recommended wasnt the reason for the losses incurred; that those losses were due to the 
actions of the DFM. It said it therefore found it hard to understand why the DFM wasnt being held responsible. It said the DFM may have ceased trading but the company has not been 
struck off.
Money Advice said it questioned the comment that a new DFM with no track record was 
relevant. It said the individuals behind the DFM had a combined 50 years of experience in 
the stockbroking, investment management and corporate finance world, as was evidenced 
during the due diligence review undertaken by FML Wealth.
Money Advice said the agreement with the DFM was that it would provide six monthly
valuations and the ongoing service by FML Wealth was an annual review. It therefore 
disagreed that FML Wealth should have obtained details of the investments made shortly 
after the funds were invested by the DFM; there was no reason to suspect that the DFM 
would not follow the agreed Model Portfolio parameters.
Money Advice said it accepted there was a deficiency in the ongoing services provided and 
that perhaps more could have been done to obtain information from the DFM. However, it 
said in the real world, where information was withheld, there were limited options available to 
force this to be supplied in a timely manner. It said it thought that FML Wealth should 
compensate Mr H for that deficiency by either refunding all fees charged with interest or 
compensating for the difference between how the model portfolio would have performed and 
the benchmark suggested in the provisional ruling. It said FML Wealth should not be held 
responsible for the actions of the DFM over which it had no control.
Mr H, through his representative said he was happy with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
FML Wealth did its own assessment of Mr Hs attitude and capacity for risk for this particular 
investment. It identified that Mr Hs standard of living is somewhat sensitive to fluctuations 
in the value of your investments and you cannot afford for their value to fall by more than 
20%. However the portfolio it recommended said the maximum loss for Risk Level 5 was 
30%, when other portfolios said the maximum losses were 20% for Level 4 and Level 3 15%. 
These would appear to me more appropriately aligned. So irrespective of how the actual 
portfolio was managed by the DFM, Im not persuaded the portfolio recommended by FML 
Wealth itself was suitable.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr H had a relatively modest amount to invest. And I 
think given the extra layer of charges associated with the DFM there needed to be a good 
reason to incur the higher costs as FML Wealth were also charging Mr H 0.75% a year to 
monitor his portfolio. Mr H could have invested directly in funds recommended by FML 
Wealth aligned to his attitude to risk and at lower cost, with FML Wealth monitoring the funds 
selected to ensure they remained appropriate. So I dont think the extra costs were justified.
Money Advice said the individuals behind the DFM had a combined 50 years of experience 
in the stockbroking, investment management and corporate finance world. However its not 
just the experience behind the individuals that is material but also their track records and 
how the business itself operates, including the checks and balances in place. In my opinion 
the fact it was a new company added a degree of uncertainty and risk.Money Advice said the agreement with the DFM was that it would provide six monthly 
valuations and the ongoing service by FML Wealth was an annual review. Thats not 
consistent with the suitability report which said that We agreed I will contact you to review 
your financial affairs twice a year. 
However I think irrespective of whether it was after a few months or towards the end of the 
first year, FML Wealth should have identified there was a cause for concern earlier if the 
DFM wasnt replying to its requests for information - again in particular given it was a new 
business. I acknowledge that in the real world, where information is withheld there are 
limited options available to force this to be supplied in a timely manner. However there may 
have been options available, for example withdrawing Mr Hs authority from the DFM or 
exploring options though the SIPP provider. Its not now known what the make-up of the 
portfolio was initially and to what degree FML Wealth could have changed its make up if 
authority had been withdrawn. But I think the point is FML Wealth failed to provide any 
oversight over time, and so again failed to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence or pay due regard to Mr Hs interests.
As Ive said, I recognise that it can be argued the DFMs actions may have also separately 
caused some of Mr Hs loss and Id considered whether I should apportion only part of the 
responsibility for compensating the loss to MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD given the 
role of the DFM. Ive thought about what FML Wealth has suggested as alternative 
compensation in its response to my provisional decision. 
I am bound to consider the complaint referred to our Service which is before me and is 
against FML Wealth and not the DFM. So Im bound to consider whether FML Wealth met its 
obligations. As I said in my provisional decision, FML Wealth played a pivotal role in Mr H 
investing with the DFM and Mr H wouldnt have been invested with it in the first place if FML 
Wealth had given suitable advice. And then it failed to provide any oversight and  didnt meet 
its obligations to monitor the portfolio.  If it had done so it may have been in a position to 
ensure that Mr Hs funds were invested appropriately going forward. So I think FML Wealth 
failed on both counts, it didnt meet its obligations as I set out, and I think Mr H losses flow 
from those failings.
Therefore I think holding MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD fully responsible for the
whole of the Mr Hs loss is fair in this particular case.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close as possible to
the position he would probably now be in if FML Wealth had given him suitable advice. I
dont think he would have invested through a DFM.
If it had done so I think Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say
precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD do?
To compensate Mr H fairly MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD should pay into Mr H's 
pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any 
interest. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD is unable to pay the compensation into Mr 
H's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to 
pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of 
the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I think Mr H is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer in retirement, so the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr H would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investmentBenchmarkfrom
(start date)           to
(end date)additional 
interest
Value
invested with
the DFM 
(the £40,000)
.FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index2 March
2018
(date
funds
sent to
DFM)Date of final 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of a final decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
MONEY ADVICE
PARTNERSHIP LTD
being
notified of
Mr Hs
acceptance of
a final decision
In addition MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD should:
Pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the ongoing concerns 
over his pension funds.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP 
LTD deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr H how much has been 
taken off. MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD should give Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investments or parts of it are illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold
on the open (market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the
actual value of any illiquid assets should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.
MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD should take ownership of the illiquid investment(s)
by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD is unable to purchase the illiquid investment(s) the
actual value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. MONEY ADVICE
PARTNERSHIP LTD may wish to require that Mr H provides an undertaking to pay it any
amount he may receive from the illiquid investments in the future. That undertaking must
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension
plan. MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Mr H would have invested. But I think the index I have outlined
above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the degree of risk that was
suitable for Mr Hs circumstances and objectives at the time.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I order MONEY ADVICE PARTNERSHIP LTD  trading as FML Wealth to calculate and pay 
compensation to Mr H as I have set out above under putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman