DRN-3126018
The complaint
This is a complaint that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined to pay Mrs and Mr Ks travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs and Mr K booked a cruise, which was to take place in October 2020.
To cover their trip, they bought a single trip travel insurance policy. They bought it by phone 
on September 2019. Great Lakes didnt sell the policy to Mrs and Mr K  it was instead sold 
by a different company. Great Lakes is the underwriter of the policy.
On 16 March 2020, Mr K wrote to the cruise company to cancel the booking. He said this 
was because of his age, which meant he was at higher risk from Covid. He also said that 
there was advice that people of his age should isolate for approximately four months and 
should refrain from taking cruises, at this point in time.
Because of the pandemic, on 17 March 2020 the UK government advised against all foreign 
travel, unless essential.
Mrs and Mr K made a claim under their policy for their lost deposit. Great Lakes declined to 
pay the claim saying their reason for cancellation was not one of those listed as covered by 
the policy.
Our investigator looked at the insurance policy, and the circumstances of the claim, and 
thought that Great Lakes decision was reasonable. Mrs and Mr K disagreed.
Because there was no agreement, the matter came to me for a decision. I also thought the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld, although my reasons were slightly different. So I wrote a 
provisional decision and invited comments and any new evidence. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My current view is that I should not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I know Mrs and Mr K have said they were not offered full cover options at the 
point they bought the policy. But that would be a complaint against the company 
that sold the policy, which is different from the company that underwrote the 
policy, which is Great Lakes. In this decision, Im looking only at Great Lakes 
decision to not pay Mrs and Mr Ks claim.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. Ive taken these rules and guidelines into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ks 
complaint. Ive also looked carefully at what Mrs and Mr Ks policy says it covers.
Insurance doesnt cover everything. Insurers can decide what they will offer to 
cover and how much they will charge for this. The more they cover, the more they 
would normally need to charge. This is in part to make sure they have enough 
funds to cover the likely number of claims.
Insurers need to make sure they set everything out clearly, so that their 
customers understand what they are paying for.
Ive looked at the policy that applies to Mrs and Mr Ks claim.
Section 1 Cancellation
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of 
cover that you are forced to cancel because of one of the following, which 
are beyond your control, and of which you were unaware at the time you 
booked your trip or purchased the cover (whichever is later).
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover or £5,000 for 
Comprehensive cover (an increase to £1,000/£3,000 cover option on Basic 
and up to £15,000 on Comprehensive may be available, please see the 
table of benefits for details) per insured person for your nonrefundable 
deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are contracted to pay), for 
your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to £300 
for Basic cover and £350 for Comprehensive cover), and up to
£350 (£175 for loss of deposit), Comprehensive cover only, for pre-paid 
kennel or cattery fees which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person 
with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip suffers 
unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 
hours to the departure of your outward trip that is covered within 
Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being 
called for Jury Service or being summoned as a witness in a 
Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a 
redundancy payment under current United Kingdom legislation.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of 
accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire which has affected 
your home, and has occurred within 48 hours before the start of 
your trip, when the damage is in excess of
£1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive 
advising against all, or all but essential travel to your trip destination 
because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane.
From this I can see that, under the strict terms of the policy, the claim isnt 
covered. The policy lists the circumstances in which a claim will be paid after a 
cancellation, and none of these apply to Mrs and Mr Ks claim.
Mrs and Mr K also didnt want to travel anyway, because of Mr Ks age and health, 
given the risk from Covid. That is perfectly understandable and reasonable. But it wasnt something that the insurer agreed in advance to cover. And the policy says 
disinclination to travel by itself isnt covered:
What is not covered:
disinclination to travel, or continue travelling, unless your change of 
travel plans is caused by one of the circumstances listed under what is 
covered;
So, even though the disinclination to travel is completely 
understandable in the circumstances, it isnt covered by the policy.
In some circumstances I can require an insurer to go beyond the strict 
interpretation of the written terms and conditions, if I think it fair and reasonable. 
But I dont think it would be right to do so, in the particular circumstances of this 
case. I completely understand why Mrs and Mr K cancelled their trip, and why they 
wanted to do so in March. But, from the insurers point of view, this was a long 
time in advance of the intended trip  some seven months before the intended 
departure. At the time, there wasnt much indication that the dangers would still be 
high by October, or that there would be any government restrictions on travel. And, 
if the cruise had been cancelled by the operator later, there would have been other 
options, not involving an insurance claim, for Mrs and Mr K to recoup their losses.
So I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require Great Lakes to go 
beyond the express terms of the policy.
In conclusion, my current view is that Great Lakes rejection of the claim was 
reasonable.
In response, Mrs and Mr K said they didnt agree with me. The main points they made are:
They questioned why we were saying their complaint was against Great Lakes when 
it was the selling company that had told them their deposit would definitely be 
covered. That company was now hiding behind Great Lakes. 
We dispute the comment that there wasnt much indication that the dangers of 
COVID would still be high by October, the date of the cruise. They said that, on 11 
March 2020, the World Health Organisation had declared a pandemic; on 14 March 
the United States had declared COVID a national emergency; and on 15 March 
Professor Chris Whitty & PHE (Public Health England] state Coronavirus will last 
until Spring 2021 the latter significantly influenced our decision to cancel.
Mrs and Mr K consider that I am saying they did not have good reason to cancel, but 
that Covid and its connotations in Spring 2020 were a good reason to cancel. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought carefully about what Mrs and Mr K have said, but Ive decided to confirm my 
decision and to not uphold their complaint. 
What Ive looked into here, under this complaint reference, is whether Great Lakes was 
reasonable in declining to pay the claim. Mrs and Mr K told us that they also wanted to 
complain about the seller of the policy, and I can see that an investigator has looked into that 
under a different complaint reference, and has given a decision. 
Ive not said that Mrs and Mr K were unreasonable in cancelling their holiday. I can 
completely understand why they did so. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, not all 
circumstances are covered by an insurance policy. The wording of the policy meant that Mrs 
and Mr Ks reason for cancelling wasnt covered. There was, I agree, a real possibility the 
pandemic would continue for a very long time  although in March 2020, when everything 
was new and confused, it wasnt clear that there would still be advice against travel by the 
time of the cruise in October 2020, or that the understanding of levels of risk generally 
wouldnt have changed by then.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Mrs and Mr Ks claim wasnt covered by 
the wording of the policy; and I dont think, in the circumstances of this case, I should make 
Great Lakes pay the claim despite the strict policy wording. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman