DRN-3364137
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) marked his credit file with arrears and a
default.
What happened
Mr S had a personal loan from HSBC. The balance was £15,981 and repayments were
£301.54 a month. His income was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic  he had been put 
on furlough. In April 2020, HSBC agreed a three-month payment deferral under the 
support measures introduced because of the pandemic.
On 2 July 2020, Mr S contacted HSBC to ask for an extension  as he was still in the same 
position. HSBC agreed to a different, Long Term No Affordability (LTNA) scheme for six 
months. This suspended monthly payments and no interest was charged but the missed 
payments were marked on Mr S credit file.
In January 2021, Mr S contacted HSBC again and asked for an extension to the plan. HSBC 
agreed to this for six months on the same basis. HSBC wrote to Mr S on 6 January 2021 to 
outline the agreement. On 8 January 2021, they sent a Notice of Default to Mr S, and on 17 
February 2021, HSBC sent a Final Demand.
Mr S complained. He said hed been told to ignore any letters about the arrangements  and 
that he was not to worry about them. He said he now had a default showing on his credit 
file, which meant he couldnt get credit for six years. This was unfair, as hed been led to 
believe that wouldnt happen.
HSBC said that when the LTNA plan was agreed in July 2020, Mr S was advised about the 
collections process and the effect on his credit file. And in January 2021, he was advised on 
the call about the default letter and final demand letter, and the effect on his credit file. 
HSBC accepted that on that call, the agent said that there was nothing to worry about  
which couldve been misleading. For that, they paid compensation of £85. HSBC said that 
Mr S arrears would show on his credit file from 30 June 2020.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator said she thought that HSBC were right to 
offer a LTNA plan in July 2020 as a further COVID-19 payment deferral wasnt in Mr S 
best interests  as they thought that Mr S affordability problems were more long term than 
three months. She said that between July 2020 and January 2021, Mr S didnt make any 
payments to his loan, and so was in arrears. When he contacted HSBC again in January 
2021, HSBC extended the LTNA plan for another six months and read a script which 
explained that Mr S would get a default notice and final demand. She said Mr S had also 
been sent a letter dated 6 January 2021 setting out the plan. By February 2021 - Mr S was 
six months in arrears on his loan payments, and so HSBC were correct in defaulting his 
loan and noting that on his credit file.
Mr S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
HSBC, agreed to put in place payment deferrals on many credit agreements, including 
personal loans  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of 
two payment deferrals, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. 
Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest 
would still be debited to accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of 
October 2020.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  
but it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit 
reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six 
months of payment deferrals.
There are two parts to Mr S complaint. Firstly, what was agreed when he asked for an 
extension to his payment deferral in July 2020; and then what was agreed when he called 
HSBC in January 2021. In both cases, he argues that he was told he could ignore any 
letters sent by HSBC  and therefore, the markers on his credit file were unfair.
July 2020:
Mr S had a payment deferral in place from April 2020 to June 2020. This meant that he 
didnt make any payments to his personal loan during that period, and his credit file wasnt 
impacted. Interest continued to accrue. This was in line with the FCAs support scheme.
On 2 July 2020, he called HSBC. Ive listened to that call. I found the call to be unclear 
and confusing. Mr S said he was still on a reduced salary as his business sector was hit 
hard by the pandemic. He said his job and income should start again in September 2020 
 but it wasnt certain. So  he couldnt make the loan payments. HSBC took him through 
an income and expenditure form which showed he had income of £1,600 a month, but 
outgoings were £81 more than that.
On the call, HSBC put in place a six-month plan, which included a collections process, a 
default notice, arrears notice and that the credit reference agencies would be notified of 
the missed payments. But  I considered the call handler wasnt very clear or confident in 
stating this. HSBC then wrote to Mr S on 10 July 2020. The letter said they wouldnt 
contact him for six months and We will also give your name and address to the Credit 
Reference Agencies named below and tell them that you have missed payments on these 
account(s). This may affect your ability to obtain credit in future. HSBC sent Mr S a Notice 
of Arrears on 26 October 2020.
HSBC said there would be no interest or charges and Mr S replied, like on my previous 
payment holiday. The call handler didnt correct him  to say the proposed plan was 
different. The call handler went on to say, you will get regulatory letters(but) dont 
panicthrow them in the bin.. She also said, you wont get any demands or a default 
notice. She then said, we are considering extending payment holidays for another 
three monthskeep an eye on this.
So  for me, Mr S was asking for an extension to his payment deferral and on the same 
terms. I think he believed that was what he was getting on the call. I accept that HSBC 
said on the call there would be collections letters and a default and arrears notice, and 
they also wrote to him  but on the call, Mr S was told to ignore those. And so  I think he 
could assume there wouldnt be an impact on his credit record.But  the main point here is that Mr S shouldve been given a three-month extension to his 
previous payment deferral, and not a six-month LTNA arrangement. The FCA guidance on 
the scheme says that if customers are already in financial difficulty before the pandemic  
for example, if they were in arrears  then firms didnt have to agree to provide a payment 
deferral. But in Mr S case  I can see the payments to his personal loan were paid up to 
date up to the first payment deferral in April 2020. So  he wasnt in financial difficulty 
before the pandemic. So, Im persuaded that the impact on his income was purely because 
of the pandemic. And on the call, he said that his income could return to normal in 
September 2020
 and so HSBC shouldve agreed to a further three-month payment deferral on 2 July 2020.
HSBC said on the call that the scheme was likely to be extended and that it was for Mr S 
to look out for it. But  the extension to it was announced on 1 July 2020, and I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for HSBC to have either known about that, or to have contacted 
Mr S afterwards and given him a payment deferral from then.
January 2021:
Mr S LTNA arrangement was coming to an end and HSBC contacted him in December 
2020 about that. On 4 January 2021, he called HSBC. Ive also listened to that call, and it 
was much clearer than the one in July 2020. HSBC asked him if there had been any 
changes to his income and expenditure since then  Mr S confirmed there werent. He 
said he hoped his industry would open up again in the summer.
The call handler offered Mr S a further LTNA plan for six months. He read out a statement 
which said "As we have established that for the foreseeable future, you are unable to 
resume the monthly contractual payments on your Personal Loan, you will be issued with a 
Default Notice. Following the expiry of this providing that amount set out in the notice has 
not been paid, you will be sent a Final Demand and your account will proceed to closure if 
the balance set out in the Final Demand is not repaid. We are required to send you these 
notices to inform you of the position of your account. Upon closure of the account, a 
Default will be registered against your credit file which will remain visible for 6 years and 
may make it more difficult to obtain future lending."
The call handler checked that Mr S understood. Mr S asked so it will affect my credit 
status? The call hander said it would  and Mr S said he agreed and there is no other 
option. The call handler then said  ..But theres nothing to worry about. But I think that
overall, the content of the call and what Mr S was being offered was clear.
The call handler said a letter would be sent to Mr S to confirm the plan. This was sent on 6 
January 2021 and it said As part of our normal recovery procedures, you will receive a 
Default Notice when the missed payments reach a certain amount If you can't pay the 
overdue amount by the date shown on the Default Notice, we will:Share information 
about the default on your account with the following Credit Reference Agencies. This 
could make it more difficult for you to borrow in future.. And after that, a Notice of Default 
was sent on 8 January 2021 and a Final Demand was sent on 17 February 2021. And so 
 I think HSBC did all they could to advise Mr S of the effect of the plan on his credit file.
Putting things right:
I now need to consider what is fair and reasonable to put things right. I believe that 
HSBC shouldve offered Mr S a further three-month payment deferral in July 2020. This 
wouldve enabled him to miss three payments to his loan, without any effect on his 
credit file.Therefore, HSBC should remove the late payments markers for the months of July 2020, 
August 2020, and September 2020.
But  by then, Mr S wouldve had the benefit of a total of six months payment deferral  
which was the maximum allowed under the FCA scheme. So  that wouldve meant that in 
October 2020  HSBC wouldve then offered the LTNA plan (rather than in January 2021). 
It seems likely that Mr S financial situation at that time wouldve been the same as in 
January 2021  as he was still on furlough - and so the Notice of Default and Final 
Demand wouldve been issued three months earlier than they were. And so  I think its 
reasonable that the default should be re-dated to November 2020 (rather than February 
2021). So  this will remain on Mr S credit file for six years from that time.
Ive considered whether a payment of compensation is reasonable here. The main impact 
on Mr S of what happened was in January 2021 and February 2021  and I think that 
HSBC acted fairly during that period. And theyve already paid compensation of £85 for the 
comment made by their call handler in January 2021  which I think was fair.
HSBC shouldve offered a payment deferral in July 2020 instead of the six-month LTNA 
plan. But the impact of that on Mr S was limited  as he still got the benefit of missing 
some payments to his loan. And  he was given an interest free period of six months 
whereas under the payment deferral scheme, interest wouldve still been char on
balance, I dont think a payment of compensation would be fair here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr S didnt respond, but HSBC didnt agree. They said:
They believed the LTNA solution given to Mr S was the right one and was within their 
discretion to do so.
With hindsight, given that Mr S didnt make any payments to the personal loan for six 
months from July 2020  that showed that the LTNA was justified.
The default should be redated to December 2020, not November 2020  as 
December 2020 was when the sixth payment on the personal loan was missed 
under the LTNA.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered HSBCs points again, but I they dont change my provisional decision. This 
said that not only should Mr S have been given a further three month payment deferral  
because he was due to start work in September 2020; but also I said that I found the 
communications in the call between Mr S and HSBC in July 2020 to be confusing. And 
overall, I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for HSBC to agree a payment deferral at 
that time.
The fact that HSBC gave Mr S a LTNA arrangement doesnt mean that this should lead to a 
conclusion that he could not afford the loan payments and therefore a LTNA was justified  
its simply the case that Mr S didnt make the payments because under the LTNA he didnt 
need to do so. It follows that the date of the default should also be as Ive stated  
November 2020.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Remove the missed payment markers from Mr S credit file for the months of July 
2020, August 2020 and September 2020.
Re-date the default from February 2021 to November 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman