DRN-3471844
The complaint
Ms N and Mr P say Canada Life Limited has unreasonably refused their critical illness claim.  
What happened
Ms N was a member of her former employers group critical illness scheme, which is 
operated by Canada Life. She joined the scheme in September 2018. 
In November 2019, Ms N applied to add her partner Mr P to the scheme at the next benefit 
window, which was on 1 January 2020. Ms Ns employment ended in late 2020.   
In February 2020, Mr P was sadly diagnosed with a type of bowel cancer and had surgery 
the following month. A claim was therefore made to Canada Life for critical illness benefit.  
In June 2020, Canada Life told Ms N and Mr P that it couldnt pay the claim.  It said the 
group scheme policy wording confirms that an insured illness is pre-existing if the member 
was suffering from symptoms or awaiting tests at the time of joining the scheme.   
Ms N and Mr P complained. They said the policy Ms N signed as an employee only said it 
excluded illnesses that were treated or known to the scheme member before they joined the 
policy  and in January 2020, they had no idea Mr P had cancer. At that time, he just had 
symptoms of an unknown gastrointestinal issue. They said that they had never been asked 
about any issues or symptoms that Mr P had when he joined the scheme.  
In July 2020, Canada Life rejected the complaint. It said it remained of the same view, as the 
correct policy wording said how if prior to the date of inclusion in the scheme, a member has 
symptoms, sought advice, treatment or tests for a condition, then it was pre-existing.  
The complaint was referred to this service. It was lodged outside of the six-month time limit, 
but Canada Life accepted Ms N and Mr P had mitigating circumstances and it consented to 
the complaint proceeding further. 
Ms N explained that Mr Ps symptoms could have been down to IBS, indigestion, 
haemorrhoids or any other cause. They took the view that blood in the stool could be a 
common condition many people live with, not necessarily bowel cancer in a young person. 
They said Canada Life was happy to insure them both without questioning their health status 
or whether they have any discomfort that could in the future turn out to be cancer. As it was, 
they added Mr P to the cover because Ms N was pregnant with their first child. 
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators who said he felt Canada Life 
had acted fairly in the circumstances.  
He explained that there had been some confusion over the correct group terms and 
conditions documentation, but Canada Life had correctly supplied it to Ms Ns employer. 
Looking at the terms, it was clear that pre-existing conditions were excluded from the policy, 
and this included symptoms known to a person if they were present before joining the group 
scheme.  
Therefore the investigator said that even if Mr P hadnt known why he had the symptoms he 
did, these began in late 2019, before he joined Ms Ns employers scheme in January 2020. 
He couldnt therefore say Canada Life had done anything wrong by applying the exclusion.  
Ms N said she and Mr P disagreed. She said she was particularly concerned that the terms 
and conditions that applied to her had changed before Mr P joined the scheme, and Canada 
Life had not been put to proof about that.  
Our investigator wasnt prepared to change his view. He said Canada Life had updated its 
terms and sent them to Ms Ns employer on 15 October 2019. Canada Life wasnt willing to 
share this information with Ms N directly, but she could obtain it from her employer. 
Ms N said she and Mr P still didnt agree. In summary, she said:
she couldnt understand why Canada Life hadnt shared the updated terms with her 
directly;
she feels it ought to be questioned about that;
she also feels that our investigator failed to look at their complaint with sympathy 
given they have had to sell their home as a result of their circumstances;
the investigator could have shared the evidence Canada Life relies on regarding the 
terms, but chose not to;
she has been made to feel worthless against a large organisation and our 
investigator perpetuated this;
she feels that this service has treated her and Mr P unfairly and merely sided with 
Canada Life from the outset;
they still believe that Mr P was covered under the original policy terms and want their 
complaint assessed on that basis;
she has now contacted her former employer but it said it was not aware of what the 
terms were at the time, or it is lying about what they were;
she and Mr P believe that this service ought to liaise with the employer to ascertain 
what the group scheme terms said;
they want the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Ps diagnosis as well as the very difficult circumstances that he and 
Ms N have been through in 2020 and beyond. Despite my sympathy for them, I cannot 
merely order Canada Life to pay a claim. I have to be fair and objective to both parties. 
Having reviewed this file carefully, I also do not think the complaint should succeed. 
Canada Lifes relationship as an insurer is with its policyholder. That is not Ms N or Mr P  
that is Ms Ns former employer. Businesses (like Ms Ns employer) are able to consider what 
terms to offer members of their insurance schemes based on offerings from the group 
scheme insurer. 
So, the concerns that Ms N has about the actions of her former employer are not a matter I 
can address here. This complaint is limited to the claim and the actions of Canada Life as 
the insurer of the group scheme.
Group critical illness schemes allow members to join at defined periods during any particular year (in this case, January), without prior underwriting. These types of cover include policy 
exclusions. Those exclusions are reviewed at the time a scheme member makes a claim.
Ms Ns cover came with exclusions in respect of pre-existing conditions. This was contained 
in the defined Group Critical Illness Policy Conditions, the most recent of which was dated 1 
March 2019. 
I realise that Ms N and Mr P are particularly unhappy because these conditions do not 
accord with the screenshots of the policy details Ms N took from her employers benefits 
scheme webpage. However, Canada Life is not liable for the employers actions. And the 
screenshots Ms N has supplied do not set out the complete correct terms that applied to the 
group scheme at the time of the claim. Those were the 2019 policy conditions. 
I have reviewed the quotation and confirmation documentation between Canada Life and the 
employer, and the cover from 1 January 2020 refers to the technical guide and conditions 
applicable from March 2019. Group schemes are renewable benefits offered by employers. 
They operate in a different fashion from personal protection policies where terms are set 
from the outset and remain unchanged, Contrastingly, group scheme conditions are often 
periodically reviewed by insurers. The previous terms had been issued in 2017. 
All members of this particular scheme (including both Ms N and Mr P) were subject to the 
2019 conditions after 1 January 2020 and the 2017 conditions from 1 January 2018. Under 
the applicable 2019 conditions, section 4 confirms what is not covered, and says:
4.1.1. Pre-existing conditions
No benefit will be payable for an insured illness (or a repeat of the same insured 
illness) which existed prior to the date of inclusion:
 of the insured person or child in this Policy.
The glossary of terms then goes on to explain what existed means:
Existed:
an insured illness or related condition is said to have existed if it was:
first diagnosed, or
treated, or
known to the insured person or child
prior to the date of inclusion (as detailed in Section 4  What is not covered) or the 
date of any increase in benefit.
As long as a later diagnosis confirms this, we will consider an insured illness or 
related condition to have existed if the insured person or child:
has had symptoms of, or
has sought or been given advice or counselling on, or received treatment for, 
or
has undergone or is awaiting diagnostic tests for
the insured illness or related condition even if the condition has not been formally 
diagnosed.On his claim form, Mr P told Canada Life that he had first sought assistance from his GP 
after noticing blood in his stools since September 2019, leading to a gastroenterology 
referral in October 2019 that took place in mid-January 2020.  
It is therefore clear that because he had symptoms before 1 January 2020, Mr Ps condition 
is a pre-existing condition for the purposes of the policy wording set out above.  So, I dont 
find Canada Life has been unfair in applying the group scheme terms and conditions to Mr 
Ps circumstances. Nor do I think it ought to pay a claim on the basis Ms N has suggested. 
It is unfortunate that the policy provisions set out on her former employers benefit selection 
site were not complete but that is not something Canada Life has caused. The right outcome 
here is not to uphold a mistake the employer may have made as if it were correct. My role is 
to determine whether Canada Life has behaved fairly by assessing the claim against the 
insurance terms applicable to Mr P at the time the claim was made because that is the 
insurance Ms Ns employer paid for. 
Canada Life has behaved fairly. Mr P had symptoms in September 2019 and sought medical 
advice in October 2019, which meant an insured condition was deemed to have existed. 
That Canada Life decided to include a policy exclusion was a matter of its commercial
judgement. The policy terms were confirmed before Mr P joined the scheme. I dont believe 
they are unfair or out of step with schemes of this nature. It is common practice with group 
protection schemes to apply exclusions to pre-existing or related conditions. 
We arent a regulator, and so its not my role to determine the fairness of that practice. In 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint, I must look at whether Canada Life 
has correctly interpreted the policy terms in respect of Mr Ps claim. Canada Life has shown 
how it sent the policy documentation to Ms Ns employer, and it sent us a copy of the correct 
conditions. It hasnt behaved unfairly in doing so, where the employer is its policyholder.
As I have set out above, the nature of group schemes does contrast to individual policies, 
which are underwritten by insurers at the time of application. Because of the variable nature 
of flexible employment benefits and the volume of people involved, Canada Life doesnt 
underwrite each member of an employers scheme separately. It simply offers group cover to 
the employer as a policyholder and to eligible spouses and partners of existing members. 
If Mr P had sought a standalone critical illness policy, hed have been required to disclose 
his medical history, and insurance would be subject to investigation of his medical 
circumstances at that time. Insurers will then consider whether to offer cover for certain 
conditions, apply exclusions, charge a different price, or refuse to offer insurance altogether. 
That is because an insurer will have specific information to decide a price for insurance to 
cover events over a significant number of years. Each insurer is entitled to determine the risk 
it is willing to accept. With a group scheme, that cannot happen and consequently these 
wide exclusions are included in such policies, where they can only be reviewed at the point a 
claim is made.  
Though Mr P did not know of his diagnosis until the following month, he sadly had a pre-
existing condition (as qualified by Canada Lifes policy terms) on entrance to Ms Ns 
employers group scheme. This was established once a claim was made and the outcome 
reached in line with the correct policy conditions. So, the exclusion has been fairly applied.My final decision
Though I realise my decision will not be what Ms N and Mr P have hoped for, I dont uphold 
their complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman