DRN-2349068
The complaint
Mr M complained that his credit card from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax had been 
declined.
What happened
Mr M told us he has a Halifax credit card which is designed for travel. He used it overseas,
and a transaction was declined twice. Mr M told us that it wasnt a lot of money, but the
circumstances of this made it very embarrassing.
Mr M said he sent Halifax a message through the app to see what was wrong, and was told
to call Halifax. He didnt want to do that from overseas, he wasnt able to make the collect
call that Halifax suggested, and he doesnt have an internet calling app.
Mr M said he complained, and Halifax offered £40, plus additional costs that he could
evidence. So he replied to evidence those extra costs. Hed been charged £4 a time for two
cash withdrawals, and also had the costs of failed efforts to contact Halifax. He said hed
sent this through an online complaint form, then again by email, and had received no
response. He also wanted to know why this overseas transaction had been declined, and
whether this was going to keep happening.
When Halifax didnt reply, he complained to us. Mr M then contacted us again to say that
relatively modest transactions were still being refused.
Halifax said that it didnt make a mistake by refusing this payment. It said this was a
standard fraud check. And its offer to cover any call costs or charges Mr M had encountered
was still open. The more recent problem with a failed payment had been resolved with a
payment of £50.
Halifax felt that its payment of £40 with a further offer to cover expenses was fair and
reasonable.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Halifax is allowed,
under the terms of Mr Ms card, to refuse transactions for security reasons. She thought that
was all that had happened here. And she thought the offer Halifax had made, to make up for
this, was fair. So she didnt think it had to do any more.
Mr M said that this was still an issue for him. He told us more about the second time his card
was refused, more recently. He said that there was no notification then either, the terminal
just said the transaction was declined. Mr M said this was happening for the majority of his
transactions, and he thought that he was being effectively penalised by the fraud algorithms
Halifax uses, because he was an infrequent card user. He didnt think that could be fair. 
Mr M wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Halifax has told us that when it blocked Mr Ms card while he was overseas, that was 
part of a routine fraud prevention measure. I understand thats inconvenient, and 
particularly so on this occasion, but I think Halifax is allowed to do that, as part of 
protecting itself and Mr M from fraud.
Halifax paid Mr M compensation, and offered to cover costs. Although Mr M initially 
told us he had trouble getting in touch with Halifax to take up this offer of an 
additional payment, I can see that Halifax has supplied a number for Mr M to call. Mr 
M has said more recently that he has spoken to Halifax, and the agents have been 
helpful.
I know Mr M prefers not to call Halifax when hes out of the country, because of the 
cost. But Halifax has explained that not all of its departments are able to make 
outgoing calls. And it was willing, when Mr M said hed incurred call costs, to cover 
those. I wouldnt expect Halifax to ring Mr M whenever his card is declined. I think its 
approach was reasonable.
I think the offer Halifax made for Mr Ms card being declined overseas, of £40 in
compensation, plus an additional payment to cover Mr Ms costs, was a fair and 
reasonable offer. I hope Mr M has now been able to fully take this up.
But Mr M also says that having his card blocked remains an issue for him. Hes 
mentioned one other specific occasion when his card was refused in a supermarket. I 
understand Halifax paid him £50 for that. Again, I think thats a fair and reasonable 
offer for what went wrong there.
I understand that Mr M says this is now happening for the majority of his 
transactions. I cant see, on the information I have, that this has been raised with 
Halifax. And our service cant consider a complaint until the bank involved has had a 
chance to put it right.
If Mr M is seeing the majority of his transactions blocked for fraud reasons, he may 
wish to complain about this to Halifax. I cant address that point further here.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Halifax said it had nothing to add. Mr M replied to disagree with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said that Halifax told him that that when a transaction failed, the terminal should have 
prompted him or the merchant to contact its fraud department. But the terminal just said the 
card had been declined. There was no notification, no text message, and no phone call from 
fraud, which is what he said other financial service providers do.
Mr M said that whilst Halifax had paid compensation for the two instances raised with it, it 
hadnt actually investigated the matter and provided a solution. He said the logic of my 
response was that he should submit a complaint each and every time his card is declined 
until the matter is resolved. He didnt find that acceptable. I know that it can be frustrating, when someones experiencing an ongoing problem, to have 
to report each instance of that problem to the bank. But our service can only consider a 
complaint once a bank has had a chance to respond. We cant just insist on intervening 
before this. So Mr M will have to tell his bank about any further instances of his card being 
declined, before our service can look at them. Its up to Mr M to decide whether he prefers to 
raise a series of complaints, or one overall complaint covering a number of different 
instances of his card being declined. 
Mr M said that hed also been told he would not be paid any further compensation for making
phone calls to Halifax from abroad so he said it was left to him to contact Halifax to complain 
about the problem, but he wouldnt be compensated for that continued inconvenience. He 
said that was also unacceptable. 
I dont know exactly what Halifax has said about this. It isnt part of the complaint Mr M has 
raised with us, and Halifax hasnt had a chance to respond on this point. I cant consider this 
here either.
Mr M said he provided Halifax with screen captures from his phone to confirm the details of 
the transaction declined in the supermarket and was told he shouldve provided it to Halifax 
immediately because it vanishes off Halifaxs systems within a short period of time.
Mr M said he felt Halifaxs investigation into his complaint was wholly inadequate. He said he 
wasnt complaining about not being compensated for calls. He was complaining about his 
card being blocked so much he couldnt use it. Halifax hadnt told him why this was 
happening, or why he wasnt being told about it when it did happen, or how it would make 
sure this wouldnt happen again. It just told him to get in touch when it happened again. 
Mr M said Halifax has removed a feature from its app allowing users to notify it when they 
are travelling abroad. He thought that was the root cause of this error. He said Halifax had 
done this because it thought it could rely on its fraud-detection systems, but they werent 
reliable. So Mr M said he hadnt used the card abroad again. He said if he did, he was 
confident it would be declined. 
Mr M sent us a screen grab from when his card was declined. I assume this was the  
instance Mr M mentioned after our investigator sent her view, as it appears to be a 
transaction in a supermarket and on the date Mr M had mentioned. Mr M had previously said 
the card terminal just said the transaction was declined. But the screen grab hes now shown 
us says incorrect merchant info which doesnt suggest to me that this transaction was 
prevented because Halifax thought it was fraud.
Mr M also sent us two screen captures from Halifaxs own website. He said one was to show 
this card was intended for use abroad, and the other was to confirm that Halifax says it will 
contact customers abroad if it suspects fraudulent activity.
I appreciate that the card Mr M holds is marketed for use overseas. But the web page Mr M 
sent us doesnt say Halifax will ring its customers each time a card is declined overseas. It 
just says if a customer is going overseas, they should Ensure your contact details are up to 
date so we can contact you if we are concerned there may be fraudulent activity on your 
account. Thats not the same as saying that Halifax will ring each time it declines a 
transaction. Ive already said I dont think Halifax has to do this. The information Mr M has 
sent me doesnt make me think that it has promised to do this.
Ive considered what Mr M has said carefully, but I havent changed my mind. At the most, 
our service can consider the two failed transactions he has raised with us, which I know Halifax has had a chance to think about. Ive done that, and I think Halifax has provided a 
reasonable response to those two instances of Mr Ms card being declined. 
If Mr M is experiencing further or ongoing problems, he will need to give Halifax a chance to 
resolve that before our service can look at this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman