DRN-2545252
The complaint
Miss L complained that Greenlight Credit Limited trading as Varooma lent to her 
irresponsibly. She also complained that the charges applied to her account were excessive 
and unfair.
What happened
Based on the limited information provided, it looked like Miss L was given 4 loans by 
Varooma as follows.
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 8.5.14 30.9.14 12 £500.00
2 5.8.14 12.9.15 12 £300.00
3 7.1.15 29.9.15 12 £300.00
4 29.9.15 outstanding 12 £650.00
Miss L first complained to Varooma about what she thought were unfair and excessive 
charges that she said had been applied to her account in relation to loan 4. Varooma 
made an offer to reduce some of these charges. Miss L didnt accept Varoomas offer and 
brought her complaint to this Service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ls complaint. She didn't think Varooma had 
acted unfairly and that its offer to reduce some of the additional charges was fair. So she 
didnt think Varooma should be asked to do anything else. 
Miss L didn't agree with the adjudicators assessment, and she also complained that shed 
been given other loans by Varooma and that the loans had been unaffordable. 
We asked Varooma to provide us with as much information as it could about all the loans 
that it had provided to Miss L so we could look into all aspects of her complaint and an 
ombudsman made a provisional decision which was sent to both parties.  
What the ombudsman said in the provisional decision
Here are some of the main things the ombudsman said. 
Varooma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss L could repay 
the loans sustainably. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts and Miss Ls income and expenditure. 
But there was no set list of checks Varooma had to do.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors 
that might indicate that Varooma should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish whether continued lending was sustainable for Miss L.
Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what it means for Miss Ls complaint.
Varooma has provided statements of account for each of Miss Ls loans and some of the 
information it gathered when Miss L applied for loans 3 and 4. Varooma says it doesnt 
hold much information about her earlier loans due to the amount of time that has passed.
Given the limited information I have about the checks that Varooma carried out 
when it provided Miss L with her loans, I cant say that its checks were reasonable 
and proportionate. However, even if Varoomas checks hadnt been reasonable and 
proportionate, I cant fairly say that Varooma shouldnt have lent to Miss L. This is 
because, given the limited information available, I cant fairly say what proportionate 
checks ought to have shown Varooma at the time.
Miss L has provided us with a copy of her credit report. The report suggests that 
information about Miss Ls credit commitments would appear on the report for up to six 
years after an account has been settled (closed), written off or defaulted. And that live 
accounts remain on the report indefinitely. It also says that not all organisations share 
their data so some information may be missing. Theres no information on the report 
about any of the loans that Miss L took with Varooma or about any other credit 
commitments that she might have had at the same time, but this could be due to the 
amount of time that has passed. But it does mean that I cant say from the report that 
Miss L has provided what I think Varooma is likely to have found in its credit checks at the 
time.
Miss L has told us she had a lot of debts with payday loans providers and that her bank 
statements would have shown she was gambling. But I think its unlikely that 
proportionate checks by Varooma for the first three loans wouldve included asking 
Miss L for her bank statements. So I dont think Varooma is likely to have been aware of 
any gambling issues unless Miss L told the lender about this at the time. And as Ive 
explained, I dont have enough information about what Varooma might have found out 
about Miss Ls other credit commitments when she took these loans. So overall, I fairly 
cant say that Varooma was wrong to provide Miss L with her first three loans and Im 
not intending to uphold Miss Ls complaint about these loans.I would have expected Varooma to want to gather a more in-depth understanding of 
Miss Ls financial position before it agreed to the fourth loan - for example, by asking to 
see bank statements - to satisfy itself that Miss L could repay her loan sustainably. 
However, from what Ive seen, I cant fairly say what more in-depth checks by Varooma 
would have shown at the time.
Miss L has told us she isnt able to provide bank statements because she no longer holds 
the bank account that she held at the time. This is of course understandable, but it means 
that I cant confirm what shes told us about her financial position when she took loan 4. 
So whilst I recognise that Miss L has given us some evidence, by telling us about her 
circumstances, I cant say it is enough evidence for me to fairly conclude that better 
checks ought reasonably to have led Varooma to conclude that Miss L wasnt likely to be 
able to repay her loan sustainably and that it therefore shouldnt continue lending to her. 
So I am not currently intending to uphold Miss L's complaint that loan 4 wasnt affordable 
for her.
Miss L has also complained that when she took the fourth loan, Varooma applied 
additional charges that were excessive and unfair. Miss L says she was charged a 
recovery fee but her car wasnt recovered and that she was charged for late payment, a 
default final notice and other charges for calls and SMS text messages.
I think Varooma was entitled under its agreement with Miss L to apply additional charges 
to her account when she failed to keep up with the monthly repayments. The loan 
agreement says that Varooma may also require payment of our reasonable charges 
arising from late payment for and it lists examples, such as sending out a default 
notice, telephone calls or SMS and enforcement action.
I appreciate that Miss L might not have noticed or read this information when she signed 
the contract. But I think its likely she was aware that she might incur additional costs if she 
didnt keep up with her loan repayments as she was charged some additional fees in 
relation to late payments on her previous loans. Overall, I dont think Varooma treated 
Miss L unfairly when it applied additional fees to her account following late payments  for 
loan 4 or in relation to any of her other loans.
Varooma says it incurred internal costs when it attempted to repossess Miss Ls car under 
the terms of the contract and found that Miss L had already disposed of it. Varooma 
offered to credit Miss Ls account with a 50% reduction in some of these additional 
charges. I think this was a fair offer in the circumstances and I dont intend to ask it to do 
anything more. But I expect Varooma to try to agree a repayment plan for loan 4 that is 
affordable for Miss L and I remind Varooma of its obligation to treat Miss L positively and 
sympathetically in these discussions.
I know Miss L will be disappointed by my provisional decision. But Id like to reassure her 
that I have looked very carefully at everything that both she and Varooma have been able to 
tell us. Having done so, I am not intending to uphold Miss Ls complaint.
What the parties said in response to the provisional decision 
Miss L hasnt commented or sent us any further information. 
Varooma has confirmed that it has no further comments.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. 
This complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. Id like to reassure Miss L 
that I've independently assessed her complaint. 
Having done so, I've come to the same conclusion as the ombudsman who previously 
looked at her case  and for the same reasons set out in the provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained in the provisional decision, Im satisfied that what Greenlight 
Credit Limited trading as Varooma has offered to do to put things right for Miss L (by 
refunding half of some charges) is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Ls 
case  and it should now do this, if it hasnt already. Im not requiring it to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman