DRN-3845022
The complaint
Mr O complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim.
What happened
Mr O complained to esure after it declined his theft claim. Mr Os home was broken into 
while unoccupied, but esure declined the claim  referring to its terms that say theft claims 
wont be paid if force and violence wasnt used to enter or exit the property.
In its response, esure stood by its claim decision and awarded Mr O £100 compensation 
because of unreasonable delays. Remaining unhappy, Mr O asked this service to review his 
complaint.
Mr O says he believes (based on information given by the police) that a mechanical device 
was used to enter his home. Mr O wants esure to pay his claim and adds that the insurer 
has caused him stress. esure relies on its loss adjusters report and concludes that there 
was no evidence of force and violence being used, so its decision to decline the claim was 
fair. 
Our investigator decided that esure had acted fairly. Mr O doesnt agree and challenges the 
validity of the loss adjusters report. He says the report was based on a short visit by the loss 
adjuster and was carried out after the locks on Mr Os home had been changed  so he 
thinks that possible evidence of force and violence may have been missed. Mr O adds that 
the terms of the policy do not clearly define what force and violence means, nor do the terms 
suggest that evidence of physical damage would be required. 
Because Mr O didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the opinion that esure has acted fairly. I know Mr O will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain why.
The relevant terms of the policy say that esure will not pay for loss or damage caused by 
theft or attempted theft while you or your household are away from the home unless force 
and violence is used to enter or leave your buildings. I dont find this term to be unusual as it 
is a common feature of several insurance policies. Mr O rightly points out that force and 
violence isnt elaborated on within the policy terms. This services approach refers to 
relevant case law, which points out that force and violence is a level of force that is over and 
above what is usually necessary. And although physical damage isnt necessary, the use of 
an instrument to gain access is considered by this service as violent, as this goes over and 
above the necessary level of force required.
Although esure doesnt doubt that the theft took place, the insurer relies on the loss 
adjusters report to conclude that theres a lack of any physical signs of force and violence 
having been used. Mr Os stance is that he thinks a mechanical device was used to gain 
access and, given the type of device he thinks was used, this explains why theres a lack of 
physical evidence of force and violence. 
Unfortunately, I havent seen anything that corroborates Mr Os submission. He says an 
attending police officer suggested that the mechanical device was used. But the police report 
Mr O recently sent to us points out that the officer was unable to identify how entry was 
gained into Mr Os home, nor could the officer establish the point of exit or spot any related 
damage. The loss adjusters report indicates that the type of mechanical device Mr O 
suggests was used isnt something the loss adjuster had knowledge of, nor could it point to 
any signs of an attack. Based on this, I cant fairly see how esure couldve reached a 
conclusion other than that force and violence was not used. So I dont find that the insurer 
did something wrong.
I note Mr Os comment that the terms do not point to there being a need for evidence of 
force and violence. But the absence of the specific requirement of this in the terms doesnt 
make it reasonable for esure to accept the claim without being sure the claim is valid, and 
that it falls within the terms of the policy. And esure can only have done so by relying on the 
loss adjusters report.
I also note Mr Os concerns about the timing and duration of the loss adjusters assessment. 
Although I empathise with Mr O, this isnt enough for me to decide that esure acted unfairly 
by relying on it. From what I can see, esure has taken steps to obtain an expert opinion 
around the circumstances of the theft. And given this is the only expert opinion available, I 
think esure acted reasonably by deciding the claim based on this report. 
In summary, Ive decided that esure declined the claim fairly and applied its terms 
appropriately. So I wont be asking esure to review its decision.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman