DRN-3821552
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained about the delays with their claim. And they thought their claim had 
been unfairly declined for storm damage by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) under their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L made a claim to Ageas following a storm on or around the 25 August 2020  
they claimed for damage to their shed roof and some of its contents and for some tiles that 
had been blown off / dislodged from their main roof.
Ageas sent its contractor to review the damage and it confirmed that it thought the damage 
was consistent with a storm. However, as part of further validation on the claim, Ageas said 
Mr and Mrs L had been dual insured (i.e. they had insurance with two insurers at the same 
time). Ageas said Mr and Mrs L had made a previous claim with another insurer and had 
received a settlement of £1,300. Ageas had asked for evidence the shed had been repaired 
following the first claim as part of its validation to ensure the claim with it was a new one.
Mr and Mrs L said they hadnt made a claim for the shed and roof before and so couldnt 
confirm any repairs had taken place. Based upon its validation Ageas decided to decline the 
claim as it didnt think it was a new claim. Mr and Mrs L are unhappy their claim hasnt been 
settled. They want to be compensated for the delays, and distress and inconvenience this 
has caused them.
Mr and Mrs L made a subsequent claim for storm damage in May 2021 for tiles that came 
away from the roof to the rear of their property. Ageas said movement of the roof caused the 
tiles to slip as opposed to the storm.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She said Ageas hadnt been able to 
provide evidence Mr and Mrs L had made a previous claim, so didnt see any reason why 
the claim shouldnt be considered. As Ageas contractor said the claim was caused by a 
storm, she recommended that Ageas settle the claim. For the later claim, our investigator 
said Ageas should re-consider the claim as it hadnt provided persuasive evidence that it 
was caused by wear and tear. Ageas disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 24 October 2022. I said:
This is a slightly unusual complaint as Ageas has said the damage to the shed and roof 
were caused by a storm  its contractors report was clear that the claim should be covered 
by the policy. Therefore, I havent felt the need to consider this point. Ageas decided not to 
settle the claim as it said Mr and Mrs L had already benefitted from a settlement from a 
different insurer for the same damage. A consumer is not allowed to benefit twice with the 
same claim from different insurers.
To support Ageas position, I would need to see persuasive evidence that this was the case 
 however, I havent so I intend to uphold this complaint.
Ageas has explained that it has spoken with another insurer and they shared details that Mr 
and Mrs L had made several claims with the other insurer. Ageas has shared the request 
for information it sent the other insurer. I have seen evidence that Mr and Mrs L had other 
claims. However, Ageas hasnt provided any clear and direct evidence that the claim Mr and 
Mrs L made with them was the same claim it made with a different insurer. This is a 
significant accusation Ageas has made, so I would expect them to support it with 
unequivocal evidence.
Ageas asked Mr and Mrs L to provide evidence of repairs to their shed. However, as they 
said it hadnt been damaged before I wouldnt have expected them to be able to provide 
evidence of repairs. Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint. I have noted in later 
communications Ageas has focused on a broken window in the shed and therefore have 
tried to avoid settling any claim for the contents of the shed. I dont think this is fair. I have 
reviewed pictures and a video of the damage and I think its clear the damage to the roof 
(caused by the storm) wouldve most likely caused any damage to contents. I think the 
broken window is a distraction (even if caused pre-loss) and wouldnt have caused any 
damage. Therefore, I intend for Ageas to settle the claim for the damage to the shed and 
damaged contents, as well as the damage to the main roof.
In respect to the 2021 claim, Ageas havent provided any evidence to support its argument 
that wear and tear was the cause of the loosened tiles. The burden of proof falls on Ageas to 
prove wear and tear as it would be relying on an exclusion in the policy. Ive also viewed 
photos taken by Ageas contractor the previous year and I cant see evidence of earlier wear 
and tear in the roof. Therefore, I dont think Ageas decision here is fair or reasonable. I think 
the damage is most probably because of not getting the storm damage repaired the year 
before. As this delay has been caused by Ageas, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend 
for Ageas to settle this claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions. I dont think its 
fair to allow Ageas to re-consider this claim for storm damage as its too late now to 
understand whether the delays in settling the first claim was the main cause or not.
Ageas has failed to progress these claims satisfactorily. Mr and Mrs L have resorted to 
making temporary repairs. I think Mr and Mrs L may not have been able to use the shed as it 
was no longer watertight. Theyve suffered damage to some of their contents, which has 
meant theyve not been able to use some items. I think the damage to the main roof will 
have cause some anxiety. Therefore, I intend to award £300 compensation  partly for the 
distress and inconvenience Ive outlined and to include the temporary repairs also.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs L accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Ageas didnt accept my provisional decision and responded in detail to it. Rest assured I 
have carefully read and considered Ageas points, but I think most, or all the points raised 
have been discussed in my decision, so I wont repeat this detail again. In brief, Ageas 
raised  new reasons for declining the claim, suggestions of making the same claim with 
another insurer, misrepresentation, challenging the decision on the shed contents and the 
main roof. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have responded in detail directly to Ageas on the points it made and most of this reasoning 
was explained in my provisional decision, so I will only touch briefly on what additional 
reasoning I provided. Following my response to Ageas, I provided it opportunity to further 
comment or provide new evidence to support any of its points.
I have focused my decision on validating whether I think Ageas has been fair in declining the 
claim for the reasons set out in its final response to Mr and Mrs L. I dont have jurisdiction to 
consider new reasons for Ageas declining the claim  I can only consider the decision Ageas 
explained to Mr and Mrs L when it declined their claim. Ageas has principally declined the 
claim due to suspected fraud, but as I set out in my decision, I dont think it has proven this. 
Fraud is a serious accusation and can have long lasting consequences for Mr and Mrs L. So, 
I needed Ageas to provide unequivocal evidence to support this. But, it hasnt been able to. I 
also dont think it has proven misrepresentation So, I dont think it has been fair in declining 
the claim for the reasons it set out.
I discussed the contents claim and broken window in my provisional decision, so I dont think 
there is benefit in covering this further. And in respect to the claim for the main roof, I didnt 
think Ageas had sufficiently proven with evidence that it was caused by wear and tear as I 
explained previously.
Therefore, given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision of upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr and Mrs Ls claims from 2020 and 2021 (damage to main roof, shed and 
shed contents) in line with the remaining terms and conditions
Pay £300* compensation  for distress and inconvenience and to cover the 
reimbursement of temporary repairs
* Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it that Mr and Mrs L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman