DRN-3369996
The complaint
Mr Ys representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC, referred to as Lloyds or 
the business.  
In summary, the CMC says that:
No suitable alternatives were discussed with Mr Y. 
He was advised to take too much risk. 
He was advised to invest too much money. 
What happened
In August 2003, Mr Y was advised to invest £20,000 into a Guaranteed Investment Bond 
(GIB), for a term of six years. 
At the time it was recorded that he was:
 
In his early 60s, retired and divorced with no financial dependents. 
He was in receipt of £12,000 a year from his pension and another £1,500 a year from 
other income. 
He owned his own property. 
He had the following savings and investments:
o£1,924 held in a current account. 
o£144,463 in an instant access savings account. 
oAn income bond, with a value of £29,737.
oA maxi equity ISA, with a balance of £5,198 and an OEIC, with a balance of 
£8,505. 
oAnother mini equity ISA with a balance of £1,157.  
He was receiving £985 from his monthly drawings. He had a monthly expenditure of 
£720, leaving him with a £265 net monthly disposable income. 
He had a cautious attitude to risk (ATR).      
In January 2005, Mr Y was advised to invest a further £15,000 into a GIB for a term of five 
years. 
At the time it was recorded that he was:
Still in his early 60s, divorced with no financial dependents but he was self-
employed/semi-retired. 
He was receiving £6,300 a year from his pension, and £300 from other income. 
He still owned his own property. 
He had the following savings and investments:
o£6,517 in his current account. 
o£40,812 in one instant access savings account, and £1,500 in another. 
oAn income bond with a balance of £27,214. 
oA maxi equity ISA with a balance of £5,723 and an OEIC with a balance of 
£9,365. 
oTwo mini-equity ISAs with a balance of £1,243 and £4,668, and a further 
OEIC with a balance of £50,232. 
oA growth bond with a balance of £20,000. 
He was receiving £550 from his monthly drawings. He had a monthly expenditure of 
£358, leaving him with a £192 net monthly disposable income. 
He still had a cautious ATR.       
The 2003 GIB was surrendered on advice in 2008 for £23,715. The 2005 GIB matured in 
2010, for £16,516. 
I understand that the investment returns were linked to the performance of the FTSE 100 
index over a fixed period of time. The GIBs also aimed to provide a guaranteed minimum 
amount at the end of the fixed term, either by way of capital or capital plus 10% return. But 
Mr Y was with unhappy with his returns.  
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said the recommendations were suitable for 
Mr Y. But unhappy with the businesss response, he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
The business considered Mr Ys circumstances, as provided by him, before making 
each of the recommendations in line with its obligations under the Code of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1R, as evidenced by the fact find. 
The business considered Mr Ys financial position  including his income 
cash/assets, ATR, purpose/goal, and how long he was willing to invest for. 
The 2003 GIB was a low risk product and in line with Mr Ys cautious ATR.  
Despite what the CMC says  about Mr Y not being informed about the true odds of 
these products exceeding what he couldve achieved from a fixed rate bond  hes 
satisfied that the Illustration made reasonably clear how the GIB worked. 
Given that the GIB went on to make a positive return, it could be argued the 
likelihood/chance of it beating the guaranteed interest rates wasnt unreasonable. In 
this instance, upon maturity Mr Y received £3,715 more than he invested. 
Given that he was a pensioner and was unlikely to be able to replace any losses, Mr 
Y was happy to invest in the GIB with capital protection  without the usual risks 
associated with investing in the stockmarket. 
In other words, he had a chance of increasing his capital, whilst enjoying a level of 
protection. 
The investigator has seen nothing to suggest that Mr Y was interested in alternatives.
The 2005 GIB was also a low risk product in line with Mr Ys cautious ATR. 
As before, despite what the CMC says, the documentation made clear how the GIB 
worked. 
Given that the 2005 GIB went on to make a positive return, it could be argued the 
likelihood/chance of it beating the guaranteed interest rates wasnt unreasonable. In 
this instance, upon maturity Mr Y received £1,516 more than hed invested. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr Y was interested in investing in an alternative.
He was still a pensioner  self-employed/semi-retired  but still wasnt in a position to 
replace losses. He was happy investing in the stockmarket without the usual risks 
involved and had his capital protected. 
Mr Y wasnt advised to invest too much of his money given his overall portfolio:  
oIn 2003, Mr Y had £146,387 cash available. His investment of £20,000 
amounted to roughly 14% of the total available cash. oIn 2005, Mr Y had £48,829 cash available. His investment of £15,000 
amounted to roughly 31% of this total amount.  
The level of risk Mr Ys investments was exposed to was suitable given his 
circumstances.    
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision if 
the investigator was unwilling to change his view. In short, it said:
The £23,715 represented a return of just over 3% a year over the five years. In 
September 2003, the FTSE 100 was at 4,150 points and had risen to 5,500 in June 
2008. Despite this period  just after the dot.com crash and just before the credit 
crunch went into full swing  being the best period of growth for the FTSE 100, this 
product didnt even beat the Bank of England (BoE) base rate of 3.5%, or the fixed 
rate bond which was slightly above that. 
It never said the GIBs were unlikely to make a return  this wasnt just a case of bad 
luck.  
Despite what the investigator says about other investments, Mr Y couldve had 
guaranteed capital growth investing in fixed rate bonds, rather than risking a nil return 
 something Mr Y wasnt aware of at the time. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said he appreciates what the CMC is saying and the fact that the GIBs 
may not have performed as well as deposit-based accounts/fixed rate bonds, but this doesnt 
make the recommendations unsuitable.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and on balance, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the 
same reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the 2003 and 2005 GIB recommendations were unsuitable because Mr Y 
wasnt advised to invest in fixed rate bonds instead. I also dont think Mr Y was advised to 
take too much risk or that given his overall portfolio hed invested too much money in the 
GIBs.  
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ys strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC, and Lloyds, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, on a balance of probabilities whats more likely 
than not to have happened.I note in 2003, Mr Y was in his early 60s, retired with no financial dependents and no 
outstanding liabilities. I also note he owned his own property without a mortgage. In 2005, 
two years later, his situation was similar, although I note he was recorded as self-
employed/semi-retired, which maybe as a result of a reduced annual income. Nevertheless, 
Im mindful his outgoings in 2005 had also reduced and he was still left with a healthy net 
disposable monthly income.  
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr Y had capacity to invest a lump sum of money in 
2003 and in 2005. I note that the 2003 GIB was maintained until 2008 when it was 
surrendered (on advice) a year or so before maturity, and the 2005 GIB was maintained until 
maturity in 2010, which doesnt suggest that there were any affordability issues or general 
unhappiness with the GIB as a financial product. 
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr Y in 2003 and 2005, to arrive at the 
conclusion that he was a cautious risk investor. On balance, Im satisfied that Mr Ys risk 
appetite was discussed and that he was willing to take a cautious risk with a portion of his 
money to meet his objective on these occasions. Ive seen nothing to suggest that his ATR 
was incorrect. 
It seems Mr Y was looking to achieve a higher potential growth than his savings account 
could provide and was prepared to take a cautious risk, but probably needed a capital 
guarantee given his age and circumstances. On balance, Im satisfied that the GIB 
recommendations broadly met those needs. 
In other words, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im 
satisfied that Mr Ys risk appetite was reasonably considered and that he was recommended 
a product that carried no more risk than he was willing to take and the recommendation met 
his objective for growth and capital security. 
I note for example, in 2005, Mr Y answered Tend To Agree to the following statements:
The stability of my capital is more important to me than the return I may obtain. 
I am more concerned about keeping the money I have than the effects of inflation on 
it.
I am not prepared to wait years to recover losses so prefer investments with the least 
risk even if the offer potentially low returns. 
Maintaining the money I have is more important to me than making it grow.  
If any information recorded on the fact find was incorrect or incomplete  and Mr Y disagreed 
with his ATR or priorities  he ought reasonably to have raised this with the adviser at the 
time in 2003 or 2005, and not agreed to the relevant forms confirming the information was 
correct on both occasions. Im mindful that an adviser can only advise based on the 
information provided, so if Mr Y had concerns about investing in the GIB or his ATR, he 
ought reasonably to have made this clear at the time. But the fact that he didnt raise this on 
either occasion, suggests it wasnt an issue. If, for whatever reason, Mr Y wasnt comfortable 
raising an issue at the time  although Ive seen no evidence that he was  he still had the 
option to change his mind during the cooling off period for each of the GIBs.
I note given his existing portfolio, as set out in the background to this complaint, Mr Y 
already had investments in several alternative products  therefore, the 2003 and 2005 
recommendation to invest in the GIB was suitable. Despite what the CMC says about fixed 
rate bonds, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr Y was at any time interested in that, 
whether it be in 2003 or 2005  he certainly didnt ask for it. It could be argued that Mr Y had a (general) tendency to invest/re-invest in products that he 
was comfortable with, and that may partly explain why he went on to invests in the GIB again 
in 2005, having done so earlier in 2003. 
In any case, Im satisfied that Mr Y had a reasonable cashflow after the investments and had 
a healthy net disposable income each month. In theory, it could be argued that he had some 
capacity to deal with any losses, but on balance it seems he was prepared to take a chance 
to receive higher returns based on the stock market, at the risk of no return  although I note 
the 2005 GIB was guaranteed to return 110% of his capital investment capital if he 
maintained the investments for the full term  knowing that his capital was safe. In the 
circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the recommendations  with around 27% or so 
(roughly) of his overall assets  was unreasonable. I note the latter isnt a complaint point 
that the CMC has pursued beyond the investigators view. 
I note in respect of GIBs the CMC said:
Mr Y (name anonymised) wouldnt have chosen to take out these structured products 
unless they had a reasonable chance of beating the guaranteed interest rates available on 
the market. The GIBs were always expected to perform worse than the BOE base rate 
according to the net returns on the projections, showing a net 3.5% return (even this low 
return relied on smooth FTSE growth due to the two products complex bi-annual 
performance capping, the FTSE100 however generally does not grow in a linear fashion). 
Therefore, we do not believe our client was informed of the true odds of these products 
exceeding what he could have achieved in a fixed rate bond, and our client was unaware 
that he was being sold a product that was reliant on the FTSE performing exceptionally to 
exceed the risk free returns available.
Despite what the CMC says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think Mr Y, given 
his financial situation and experience, more likely than not understood the general balance of 
risk and reward, given that the GIBs had capital protection or capital protection and a 
guaranteed return. I note the Illustration also made reasonably clear the nature and 
operation of the GIB and relationship with the FTSE 100 index. Even if I was to conclude that 
Mr Y wasnt made aware of the risks  which I dont  I think its more likely than not he still 
wouldve gone ahead with the investment in light of the points made above. 
Im mindful the CMC said that between September 2003 and June 2008, it was one of the 
best periods for growth in history of the FTSE 100, so without the benefit of hindsight, it 
wouldve been impossible to know whether or not the GIB wouldve done better. In this 
instance, and on balance, I dont agree that the CMCs submissions. 
In other words, despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied its applying the benefit of hindsight 
to make its argument. In my opinion, we cant use the benefit of hindsight to decipher which 
investment wouldve done better, and then determine whether or not the original advice was 
suitable. I appreciate thats not exactly what the CMC is saying, but nevertheless I wish to 
make clear, as I have done on previous occasions, thats not how our service operates. 
I note that in 2003, Mr Y certainly wasnt without investment experience, which started in 
1999. By 2005, he also had two years worth of experience of the GIB and wouldve had the 
benefit of annual statements to see how it was doing. Given his previous investment 
experience, Im broadly satisfied that in 2003 and 2005, he was aware of alternative 
investments, so was in a position to make an informed choice, and  more likely than not  
invested in a way he wanted to at the time and was content with. In this instance, and on balance, I think its unlikely Mr Y didnt know that there were other 
investments available, including keeping his money in a deposit-based account, which 
evidently, he didnt want to do.  
Im persuaded, that its only with the benefit of hindsight that we know for sure that the 
investment wasnt going to achieve near what was probably envisaged, as the world was 
about to embark on a global financial crisis during the end of the 2003 GIB and the half-life 
of the 2005 GIB. But this doesnt mean that the recommendations are now unsuitable. 
I appreciate the CMC says it wasnt suggesting that the GIBs wouldnt provide a return, even 
though Im aware there was an inherent risk of nil return  over the guaranteed amount for 
the 2005 GIB. But based on what the CMC says, it seems Mr Y might now be unhappy with 
the returns upon surrender, but Ive seen no evidence to suggest that he was, subject to the 
above, given any guarantees about the level of return. Just because he didnt receive a 
better return doesnt mean the recommendations were unsuitable.
I appreciate Mr Y will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman