DRN-3303984
The complaint
E, a business operated by a sole trader, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited closed its 
merchant account.
What happened
The owner of E explains that in September 2020 WorldPay refunded disputed fees on the 
account. In July 2021 he tried to use the terminal but received a message that the account 
had been closed. E raised this complaint and was told by WorldPay that the account should 
have been reopened in 2020. But as it cant do this E would now have to reapply. The owner 
says that this might be declined, and E would also have to pay another lifetime fee. 
WorldPay had only offered to pay it £75 in compensation.
WorldPay said that it had issued E with a termination notice in July 2020 and this had led to 
the account being closed. E was reasonably aware of this and hadnt asked for the account 
to be reopened. It accepted that it had in error sent E a replacement terminal and recorded 
this as lost rather than collecting this. It also said in the final response that its collection team 
should have reopened the account. So, it offered to pay E the compensation. Due to 
technical reasons and the need for due diligence checks E would need to make another 
application.
Our investigator didnt recommend that WorldPay do anything more. He said that WorldPay 
had issued a termination notice on 28 July 2020. On 25 August 2020 it had written to say 
that the account was closed. E hadnt contacted it about reopening the account and 
WorldPay hadnt said that the account was reopened. The account could no longer be 
reinstated, and it was fairly a matter for E to reapply.
E didnt agree. The owner said that he wanted this looked at again and that the assessment 
is laughable and we arent listening. No one had told him that the terminal was marked as 
lost. The action to close the account arose from incorrect charges. The compensation 
doesnt reflect what a new machine now would cost and the other one was taken for life. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im looking here at a final response from WorldPay for this complaint of 23 July 2021. Past 
charges applied to Es account leading to arrears and termination of the account had already 
been refunded. WorldPay stated some were on the basis of a gesture of goodwill and others 
had been valid. But the point is that the dispute over those charges was resolved with a 
refund in the way set out in a final response of 8 September 2020.
The issue I need to look at here is whether Es account should be reopened. As set out 
above on 28 July 2020 WorldPay issued a termination notice. This said that if E didnt pay 
the outstanding balance in 21 days the contract would be terminated. On 25 August 2020 
WorldPay wrote to E and said your WorldPay account is now closed. I see nothing in any 
further correspondence that indicated that this wasnt the position. And the refund of charges 
of £47.98 was said to have been made on or around 18 September 2020.
E had complained about problems with its terminal on 7 August 2020 and received a 
replacement on 10 August 2020. WorldPay accepts that as part of its process that ought to 
have been collected after the account was closed but it was marked as lost. I understand E 
thinks that not collecting the terminal was an indication that it would still have the account. 
But that terminal wouldnt have worked with the account after 25 August 2020 had E 
attempted to do so.
I understand WorldPays position to be that its collection team should have reopened the 
account in September 2020. But that this would have been in response to E expressing that 
it still wanted the account. Clearly E didnt attempt to process any payments and didnt 
identify the issue with logging on and raise this until July 2021. As it had been on a pay as 
you go contract there were no monthly terminal fees and no amounts processed.
I find it was reasonably apparent to E that the account remained closed. It didnt question 
this or try and access it for a number of months. Had it raised this or done so earlier it might 
have been possible to reinstate the account. It didnt do so. WorldPay has told it a new 
application is now required and I think it has given a reasonable explanation for why that is 
the case. Ive looked at the previous agreement signed in November 2017. E paid a fee at 
the start of £235 excluding VAT representing the terminal hire with a minimum period of 18 
months. It clearly continued with that previous agreement beyond the minimum period and 
until August 2020. That contract was then terminated, and E didnt raise this or query this at 
the time as Ive set out. 
Im applying my own judgement to assess this complaint. And I have considered everything 
thats been said and understand the positions of both E and WorldPay. I have balanced all 
the factors. The account was closed and wasnt reopened. I dont consider I have a basis 
now to say that it would be fair or reasonable for WorldPay to do so as a resolution to this 
complaint. E would need to make a further application. It had a reasonable opportunity to 
address the clear closure of the account in August 2020 and Im afraid it didnt do so.
WorldPay has paid E compensation of £75 for inconvenience. For the reasons Ive given I 
wont be asking WorldPay to do anything more than that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman