DRN-3158782
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds bank PLC closed his accounts and didnt consider his 
reasonable adjustments. Hed like compensation for the impact caused. 
What happened
Mr G had five bank accounts with Lloyds.
 
On the 16 March 2021 Lloyds sent Mr G six text messages to advise him that his accounts 
will be closing in 60 days. And on the 17 March 2021 Lloyds sent Mr G a letter to advise him 
his accounts will be closing in 65 days. On the same day Mr G visited his local branch, 
withdrew his remaining funds and asked for all of his accounts to be closed.
 
Mr G complained to Lloyds about the closure of his accounts and the banks failure to 
consider his health conditions. He was also unhappy that he couldnt access his banking 
facilities. 
Lloyds looked into Mr Gs complaint. The bank explained they were required to give 60 days 
notice on closing an account but an additional 5 business days to ensure Mr G receives the 
closure notice. Lloyds advised they sent the text messages to inform him  and didnt mean 
to cause him distress. The bank offered Mr G £20 to cover the cashback accrued and the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr G was disappointed with Lloyds decision so referred his complaint to our service. 
He explained that he had to take two days off work  and he was charged a full months 
account fee. He felt that the bank shouldnt have sent him text messages due to his mental 
health condition. Mr G said he wanted compensation for the distress caused, along with the 
account fee and cash back rewards refunded. Hed also like to be paid for the loss of his 
earnings and the call costs required to arrange a new account. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint  but they didnt uphold it. They 
thought Lloyds had acted fairly in giving Mr G 65 days notice of the account closures and 
hadnt acted unfairly in sending him the text messages. Our investigator thought the £20 
Lloyds had offered to cover the cashback rewards and account fee was fair. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. In response he said:
Lloyds didnt treat him fairly when closing his accounts. They put him in a difficult 
position, as a vulnerable person, during the pandemic when he had to find new 
banking facilities. 
As Mr G didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure:
Ive firstly considered whether Lloyds acted fairly when closing Mr Gs account. A bank is 
entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But, 
before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
Lloyds have explained they provided Mr G 60 days notice of the closure of his accounts. 
And this is the case  however they restricted Mr Gs access on the 17 March 2021, 
therefore making the closure effectively immediate. Ive considered the terms of Mr Gs 
current account to see whether Lloyds acted fairly here and from the evidence Ive seen Im 
satisfied that they acted within the terms and conditions when they closed Mr Gs account. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr G and I appreciate the closure of his accounts 
caused him inconvenience. But a bank can decide whod they like to offer banking services 
to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can decide they no longer 
want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the commercial freedom to 
decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in Mr Gs case Lloyds exercised 
its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close his accounts. 
Mr Gs highlighted that he needed to take significant time off work to organise a new account 
and visit his local branch. However, for the reasons Ive outlined above I think Lloyds have 
acted fairly in restricting Mr Gs access  it follows I wont be asking Lloyds to compensate 
Mr G for the inconvenience caused when his accounts were closed. 
Ive thought about the text messages Lloyds sent to Mr G on the 16 March 2021 notifying 
him that his accounts would be closing in 60 days. I appreciate that receiving these text 
messages caused Mr G distress, due to his mental health condition, however Im satisfied 
Lloyds were attempting to notify Mr G about the closure of his accounts  and didnt act 
unfairly in sending him messages to advise him of this. I say this because although I can see 
that Lloyds were notified of Mr Gs mental health condition in June 2020 Ive cant see any 
evidence that Mr G asked to not be contacted via phone or text messages. Therefore I cant 
say Lloyds didnt act on any agreed reasonable adjustments. 
Customer service
Ive looked at the contact notes provided by Lloyds and listened to two phone calls provided 
by the bank which took place on the 17 March 2021. Mr Gs argued that staff at the bank 
didnt treat him fairly and were rude. Having looked at the account notes and listened to the 
calls provided, Im afraid I cant agree. I appreciate that this was a challenging time for Mr G, 
and its frustrating for him that he wasnt provided with an explanation for why his accounts 
were closed. However Im satisfied that the call handlers treated Mr G with respect, and 
listened to his concerns about the treatment he received at the branch and the inability for 
him to obtain his cashback rewards. 
Overall, Lloyds have offered Mr G £20 to cover the cashback rewards and the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this is a fair offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman