DRN-3235186
The complaint
Mr R complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) failed to 
give him 30 days notice for removing Bitcoin-related products from their platform. He says 
that this led to his failed attempt to invest in Bitcoin within his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) on 9 November 2020. And that this led to a large financial loss. 
What happened
Mr R has a SIPP with HLAM. Within his SIPP, he uses the HLAM service on an execution-
only basis as a retail client.
Prior to his failed Bitcoin trade, Mr R had traded in Bitcoin-type investments with HLAM. But 
he no longer held any of the assets at the time of the failed trade, having sold his holding on 
21 September 2020. 
On 30 October 2020, HLAM wrote to all existing Cryptocurrency holders to explain that 
theyd decided that their clients would no longer be able to purchase new units in the 
relevant funds, which they listed. But that they could continue to hold the units already held, 
or sell them at any time. HLAM didnt write to Mr R as he no longer held the assets in 
question.
HLAM said it wasnt possible to contact clients before the suspension, as they felt that 
wouldve led to clients making rash decisions and purchases which wouldve led to the poor 
outcomes they were aiming to avoid. 
Mr R said he tried to invest in a Bitcoin-type investment on 9 November 2020. But the trade 
was rejected. So he called HLAM. They told him that they had removed this type of 
investment from their platform due to the impending ban by the FCA, which was due to start 
on 6 January 2021.
Mr R complained to HLAM. He felt theyd removed the service without giving him the 30 
days notice the terms and conditions shouldve allowed him. And that this had financially 
disadvantaged him.
HLAM issued their final response to the complaint. They said that the FCA had confirmed  
giving their reasons - on 6 October 2020 that it would ban the sale of crypto-derivatives to 
retail clients with effect from 6 January 2021. They said they were obliged to follow the 
FCAs guidance. And that theyd decided to suspend purchases of the affected securities 
with effect from 30 October 2020. 
HLAM said that having monitored the relevant trading activity, and considering the clients 
who would likely be affected, they decided that the best course of action was to stop all 
purchases before to the 6 January 2021 deadline. They felt that any further purchases could 
lead to the poor client outcomes the FCA was seeking to prevent. And that theyd made a 
sensible decision which worked in the best interests of their clients. They also said that their 
Terms of Business set out that where they deemed an investment no longer suitable, clients 
could continue to hold the investment, and could sell them at any time, but that HLAM 
wouldnt make further purchases on their clients behalf. 
In January 2021, Mr R asked HLAM to provide him with a copy of their terms of business. He 
also asked them to confirm the failed trades that he had raised, including the number of 
units.
HLAM provided Mr R with the terms and conditions on 4 February 2021. They said that 
these made it clear that holding complex investments was subject to continuous review. And 
that if they deemed that making further investments wasnt suitable they could warn 
customers of this and refuse to make further trades on a customers behalf. They said that it 
was sometimes necessary to make such decisions at short notice in the legitimate interest of 
customers, or to comply with regulatory changes, as was the case here. HLAM said they 
were confident that their decision was in line with the terms and conditions. HLAM asked Mr 
R for further information so that they could look into the failed trades hed raised.
Mr R told HLAM that he understood that they were required to keep a record of all trades 
raised on his account, even if they werent executed. He asked for a list of all unexecuted 
trades raised in 2020. He also repeated his question about whether holders of the affected 
investments had been told that they would no longer be available.
HLAM told Mr R that they only had details for two unexecuted trades in 2020, both from 23 
March 2020. 
Mr R said he needed details of the rejected trades from 9 November 2020. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service on 30 March 2021. He said that hed asked HLAM 
if he could be treated as an elective professional client. But had been told that HLAM could 
only deal with him as a retail customer. Mr R said that the FCA imposed deadline came into 
place on 6 January 2021. He said he was due a months notice before changes took effect to 
the services provided by HLAM. But that theyd not given him 30 days notice. He felt they 
couldve given him 30 days notice and still complied with FCA requirements. He also felt 
that they had the regulatory permissions to deal with professional clients. And that HLAM 
didnt appear to have maintained records of orders received as required under COBS 11.5. 
He said he needed those records to demonstrate his intention to deal. Mr R wanted HLAM to 
reinstate the trades that he wouldve made on 9 November 2020 at that days prices.
HLAM provided Mr R with more of the information hed requested in April 2021. But werent 
able to provide details of the rejected trades from 9 November 2020.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that HLAM had 
acted fairly and reasonably following the ruling from the FCA. And that although theyd acted 
sooner than theyd had to, it appeared theyd done that to protect their clients. So he felt 
theyd acted in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
- He questioned why HLAM had made the commercial decision to only deal with retail 
clients. 
- Regarding what Mr R still felt was HLAMs failure to provide 30 days notice, he felt 
that their intention to discourage poor outcomes couldve been met without breaching 
the terms and conditions by allowing investors to continue to transact until the ban 
became effective. He felt that HLAM hadnt needed to breach their terms and conditions. He also felt that HLAM hadnt given their existing investors the required 
30 days notice. 
- He questioned why HLAM hadnt implemented their ban on crypto-related products at 
the end of the FCAs consultation on 3 October 2019.  He said that if HLAM had 
imposed the ban earlier he wouldve been able to move his SIPP and open 
brokerage accounts elsewhere to ensure he had access to these products. 
Our investigator passed on the following questions from Mr R to HLAM on 15 December 
2021: 
1. Mr R felt that HLAM were obliged under the terms and conditions to give him access 
to listed products and to give him 30 days notice of any changes to those terms 
unless required to act earlier by the regulator. He said that HLAM had withdrawn his 
access to products without the requisite 30 days notice in circumstances where the 
regulator had provided them with three months to consider their approach. He felt 
this was a breach of contract.
2. Mr R said that he understood that HLAM made the commercial decision not to 
transact with any category other than retail. But hed been guided by HLAMs entry in 
the FCA register, which had misled him. He felt that if HLAM had updated this 
register, he mayve been able to find other brokers and move his accounts so that the 
problem couldve been avoided.
3. Mr R felt that HLAM couldve avoided poor outcomes for their clients by allowing 
those clients who contacted them to transact in crypto-related instruments to 
continue to do so for 30 days, or up to the date the FCA ban came into force. He felt 
that investors relied on financial services firms to provide them with access to 
financial markets directly. And that continuous access was a condition of the terms of 
business in place. So he didnt agree that it was acceptable for HLAM to unilaterally 
stop providing a service without notice. 
HLAM replied to this service on 20 December 2021 as follows: 
1. They said they reserved the right to act in what they deemed to be the best interests 
of their clients in the face of regulatory changes such as this. 
2. They said the permissions set out in the FCA register were correct to show 
professional clients. They agreed that as a regulated firm they had to regularly review 
and confirm firm status details and activities with the FCA. They confirmed that the 
entry in the FCA register highlighted their regulatory permissions, not the services 
they were obliged to offer. They said that Mr R was subject to the terms and 
conditions of the HLAM service. And that these outlined that the service was 
provided for retail clients. They said hed agreed to these before he opened his 
account. They also confirmed that HLAM was a platform exclusively for retail 
investors. And said that Mr R had never been treated in any other way or led to 
believe that he was anything other than a retail client.
3. They said that they aimed to implement regulation in a manner that they deemed to 
be in the best interests of their overall client base. And that theyd acted to minimise 
the chances of the poor outcomes that the FCA had sought to avoid. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I dont consider that HLAM failed to meet their 
terms and conditions when they ceased to offer crypto-related products. And therefore Im 
satisfied that they cannot fairly or reasonably be held responsible for any perceived 
investment loss Mr R has made. I understand this will be disappointing to Mr R. Ill explain 
the reasons for my decision.
The key issue for me to determine is whether HLAM acted appropriately in withdrawing the 
facility to purchase certain types of assets without giving notice. I needed to decide whether 
HLAM had failed to meet their terms and conditions when they ceased to offer crypto-related 
investments. I considered the evidence, including the terms and conditions, and what both 
parties had told this service.
Did HLAM fail to meet their terms and conditions when they ceased to offer crypto-related 
products?
HLAM said they were confident that their decision to cease to offer crypto-related products 
was in line with their terms and conditions. They said they make no guarantees to their 
clients over the long-term dealing arrangements of any investment available on their 
platform. And that their terms of business give no guarantees on the availability of a 
particular stock. They also said that they didnt claim to be able to offer all types of 
investments. 
Mr R didnt agree. He felt that he was due 30 days notice before changes to the services 
provided by HLAM could take effect. 
The terms and conditions in force at the time of the failed trade stated the following:
A7  changes to the Terms
We may change the Terms, including our fees and charges, from time to time in whole or in 
part, by giving you reasonable notice of the change. We will notify you of changes to the 
Terms by sending you the amended Terms by post or by email. We will also make the 
amended Terms available on the HL Website.
We will only change the Terms for the following reasons:
to reflect changes in the costs and charges that we incur or expect to incur in 
providing our services to you, and/or to take into account changes in the rates of 
inflation, taxes or interest;
to reflect current or future changes in law, FCA rules or regulations, or decisions of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service;
to meet regulatory requirements or industry guidance or best practice;
to make these Terms easier to understand or fairer, or to correct mistakes;
to reflect changes in market practice or conditions;
to reflect the way that our services are used and ensure that the costs of those services are allocated fairly among our clients; or
to provide for the introduction of new systems or services and changes in technology 
or products.
We will give you at least 30 days notice of any change to these Terms that may be 
detrimental to you, unless we are required to make the change sooner (for example for 
regulatory reasons). Incidental changes (such as clarity, drafting and typographical 
amendments) are made immediately and will be available on the HL Website or in printed 
form via the Investment Times. We may amend or remove the levels of Fund discount at any 
time.
In my view, the terms clearly state the reasons they will be changed. These reasons include, 
amongst other things, changing costs and charges, changes in regulations, and to correct 
mistakes. 
Im not persuaded that the terms needed to be changed following HLAMs decision to cease 
to offer crypto-related funds. I say this because HLAM offer over 3,000 funds. It would be 
unreasonable to expect them to update every client, even those not invested in a specific 
fund, if that fund ceased to be offered. And it would be unreasonable to expect HLAM to 
update the terms and conditions if a fund was removed. The terms and conditions dont 
require HLAM to change the terms if access to certain funds is removed. 
I acknowledge that the terms do state that they could be changed to meet regulatory 
requirements or industry guidance or best practice. However, given the regulatory 
requirement that was due to come into effect in January 2021 simply led to HLAM 
withdrawing specific funds, I dont consider that new terms and conditions wouldve been 
warranted. HLAM have confirmed to this service that they didnt change the terms and 
conditions after they decided to cease to offer crypto-related products. Therefore Im not 
persuaded that there was a change in the terms requiring 30 days notice to be given. 
As Im satisfied that the terms didnt need to be changed after HLAMs decision to cease to 
offer crypto-related products, I cant fairly say that HLAM shouldve given Mr R 30 days 
notice. I say this because that it only a requirement when the terms are changed. And they 
werent changed. So Ive no evidence that HLAM failed to meet their terms and conditions 
here.
Mr R also said that the FCA imposed deadline came into place on 6 January 2021. He felt 
that HLAM couldve given him 30 days notice and still complied with FCA requirements. Mr 
R also questioned why HLAM hadnt implemented their ban on crypto-related products at the 
end of the FCAs consultation on 3 October 2019.  He said that if theyd done this, he 
wouldve been able to arrange access to the required assets with another provider. 
The FCAs ruling on 6 October 2020 confirmed that they would ban  for retail customers - 
the sale of derivatives and exchange traded notes that referenced certain types of crypto-
assets from 6 January 2021. It felt that retail clients shouldnt invest in these stocks as it 
could lead to poor client outcomes. 
HLAM told this service that they decided to suspend new purchases after the FCAs ruling, 
but before the deadline the FCA had set. They said theyd done this as the guidance was 
clear and they didnt feel there was any benefit in delaying the suspension which would have 
put their clients at further risk.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said. While I acknowledge that Mr R may 
have been able to invest in crypto-related products with another provider if HLAM had implemented their ban earlier, Im not persuaded that HLAM shouldve acted in the way he 
suggested. From what Ive seen, HLAM acted reasonably, and in line with their terms and 
conditions, when they decided to suspend new crypto-related products after the FCA issued 
its definitive ruling. 
I next considered whether HLAM couldve treated Mr R as an elective professional client. 
Could HLAM have treated Mr R as a professional client?
Mr R spoke to HLAM after he couldnt carry out the trade he wanted on 9 November 2020. 
During his calls with HLAM they told him that it wasnt possible for him to be classified as a 
professional investor with them. Mr R felt that HLAM had the regulatory permissions to deal 
with professional clients.
HLAM said that the permissions set out in the FCA register were correct to show 
professional clients. They said that the entry highlighted their regulatory permissions, not the 
services they were obliged to offer. They said that Mr R had agreed to, and was subject to, 
the terms and conditions of the HLAM service. And that these outlined that the service was 
provided for retail clients. HLAM also confirmed that their platform was exclusively for retail 
investors. 
The terms and conditions state the following under A1:
The HL Service is provided by HLAM for retail clients. As a retail client you will receive 
information in a straightforward way and benefit from the highest level of regulatory investor 
protection under FCA rules.
From what Ive seen, HLAM made it clear that Mr R was a retail investor. The terms and 
conditions are clearly worded to that effect. And Ive seen no evidence that HLAM ever led 
Mr R to think otherwise. Therefore Im not persuaded that HLAM did anything wrong here. 
I acknowledge that Mr R has questioned why HLAM made the commercial decision to only 
deal with retail clients. But, as our investigator said, that it not a question I can consider as 
part of my decision here. Nevertheless, Ive seen no evidence that HLAM provided 
misleading information in this respect. 
I finally considered if HLAM had caused Mr R any financial loss.
Did HLAM cause Mr R a financial loss?
Mr R wanted HLAM to reinstate the trades that he said he wouldve made on 9 November 
2020 at the prices prevailing then. He said hed planned to make the investment in his SIPP, 
followed by an investment outside his SIPP on 9 November 20. He said he was relying on 
HLAM to provide the details of the failed trades from their records, but they had been unable 
to. 
HLAM told this service that they keep audit logs of account activity, including any orders that 
are cancelled. Mr R agreed with this service that as he was unable to provide dates and 
times of trades that didnt go through that we would only consider the attempted trade on 9 
November 2020.
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that HLAM are not responsible for any perceived 
financial loss Mr R has suffered. As I said earlier, I dont consider that HLAM were under an 
obligation to give Mr R 30 days notice that his access to crypto-related products would be 
withdrawn. I also consider that HLAM made it clear to Mr R on the day of his failed investment attempt that he wouldnt be able to invest in the way he wanted to with them. So, 
while I appreciate that it wouldnt have been easy to arrange, Mr R couldve invested 
elsewhere when he found out that a trade with HLAM wasnt possible. The fact that he didnt 
cant reasonably lead to HLAM being held responsible for any potential future investment 
returns from an asset Ive no evidence Mr R eventually invested in elsewhere. 
Therefore I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont require HLAM to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman