DRN-4162715
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a bridging loan they arranged with EuroFund (UK) PLC in 
2018. They have said:
They were not told either when the loan was taken out, or when discussions about 
extending the term happened, that charges would be incurred if they extended the term.
They were not told when charges associated with the term extensions were added to the 
loan balance and theyre unhappy that additional interest has been incurred because of 
the resultant higher balance.
The increased balance on the loan meant that their monthly payments were not covering 
the interest being charged, which led to even more interest being charged and the 
balance increasing.
They werent issued with statements automatically, and EuroFund only provided 
statements to their broker when asked for them.
EuroFund contacted their broker rather than them regarding matters pertaining to the 
loan.
The additional charges and interest meant that the settlement figure for the loan is higher 
than expected, causing them difficulties when they wanted to refinance.
Mr and Mrs B said that they had not been treated fairly and wanted 1) the charges applied to 
the loan to be reviewed, 2) the interest on extension fees removed, and 3) the interest on the 
shortfall of monthly payments removed.
What happened
In June 2018 a bridging loan was advanced to Mr and Mrs B. It was a second charge 
arrangement, as they had an existing mortgage on the property. The loan was for an amount 
of £33,500 and was due to be repaid after six months. The loan was rearranged in 
December 2018 with the amount of borrowing increasing to almost £60,000 over a term of 
six months. New loan documentation was issued at this point. 
The term of the loan was then extended for a further six months in June 2019, at which point 
a fee of £604.53 (1% of the outstanding balance) was added to the loan. In December 2019 
the loan was again extended for six months. A fee of £617,80 was added to the loan 
balance. The term was extended again at the end of that period, this time for 12 months and 
a fee of £627.89 was added to the loan. A further term extension was granted in June 2021 
for six months. A fee of £676.70 was applied.
There were points from the spring of 2019 where Mr and Mrs B missed payments, which 
were subsequently made up in the most part, although a small amount of arrears remained 
outstanding at the time the loan was repaid. Mr and Mrs B paid off the bridging loan in 
August 2022.
The mortgage deed from the time of the original advance detailed that if the loan was not 
repaid at the end of the term that EuroFund might, at its discretion, extend the date for 
payment in consideration for a fee that they may debit to the account after notifying the 
Borrowers of the same and which will bear interest 
On 16 November 2018 EuroFund wrote to Mr and Mrs B to confirm the details of the 
rearranged loan, including the increased lending balance and the new term. It was detailed 
that there was a facility fee payable, equal to 1.5%, which would be added to the loan on the 
date the new term started, i.e. when the additional borrowing was advanced. The mortgage 
deed from this time again confirmed that if the loan was not repaid when it was meant to be, 
EuroFund might at its discretion extend the term in consideration for a fee. It did not say that 
it would notify Mr and Mrs B in advance of the fee being applied, just that it would be debited 
to the account.
EuroFund sent Mr and Mrs B annual statements at the beginning of October each year. The 
covering letters set out the balance of the loan, the arrears (if there were any), the amount of 
interest that had been charged and the charges that had been applied. The charges balance 
was then broken down and set out the amounts that had been charged for the term 
extensions. The charges match those applied to the account for the four extensions to the 
term in 2019, 2020 and 2021. All of the letters were correctly addressed. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to EuroFund in October 2021. EuroFund responded to the 
complaint in a letter of 22 October 2021. It set out the loan arrangements and the fees that 
had been charged initially and at the time of each extension to the loan. This being a fee of 
up to 1.5% of the outstanding balance, but when it had extended the loan, it had set the fee 
at 1% of the outstanding balance. EuroFund didnt think it had done anything wrong. In 
relation to the matter of statements, EuroFund confirmed that annual statements were sent 
out and that Mr and Mrs B could ask for additional statements in between, but a fee would 
be charged. 
Mr and Mrs B were not satisfied with EuroFunds response and referred their complaint to 
this service. When they did, they said that had they known about the charges that would be 
added each time the term was extended, they would have arranged borrowing elsewhere. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She 
concluded that there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs B had been told at the times of the 
extensions from June 2019 onward that a fee would be applied or how much that fee would 
be. As such, she recommended that EuroFund refund the extension fees applied from June 
2019 along with all interest that had accrued on those sums. In addition, she recommended 
that EuroFund pay Mr and Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience the situation 
caused them.
Mr and Mrs B accepted the investigators conclusions. EuroFund did not. It highlighted that it 
had been very patient and supportive of Mr and Mrs B in light of their poor management of 
their account  arrears and not repaying the loan when it was due to be. It also pointed out 
that had it not been so patient and supportive, the court costs of possession action would 
have greatly outweighed the rearrangement fees that were levied. It also said that 
Mr and Mrs B had misinformed us about the issue of annual statements and interim 
statements to their brokers. Further documentation was provided, including the annual 
statement letters detailed above.
Our investigator considered what EuroFund had said and the further documentation 
provided, but it didnt change her conclusions. She remained satisfied that the redress and 
compensation she had recommended were appropriate in the circumstances. 
EuroFund continued to disagree with the investigators findings and it was decided that the 
complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 May 2023 setting out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. Below is an excerpt. This complaint revolves around the addition of charges for an administrative process  
extending the loan term - and the lack of information to Mr and Mrs B about that process. 
Unfortunately, neither party has provided us with any correspondence from the times of, and 
relating to, the extensions to the term of the loan in 2019, 2020 and 2021. So I dont know 
what if anything was said about the fees at those times. 
Given that the loan extensions were granted after the loan was rearranged in 
December 2018, the relevant documentation to whether EuroFund was able to charge the 
fees it did was that issued at that time, rather than the earlier June 2018 document. The 
December 2018 document said that a term extension could be granted (but it was at the 
discretion of EuroFund) and a fee would be charged. There was no longer a requirement for 
EuroFund to inform Mr and Mrs B of what the charge would be in advance. As such, I cant 
find that it failed to fulfil the terms of the loan by not doing so. 
However, while I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs B would have been aware that they would be 
charged a fee when the extensions were agreed, it would appear that they werent told what 
that fee would be at the time it was levied. It does not appear that they were provided with 
this information until the annual statement was sent in October of the relevant year. While I 
acknowledge this loan is not a regulated one, and that Mr and Mrs B could have asked for 
this information, it is generally good practice for a borrower to be told about fees that are 
being added to their loan balance. 
In the situation where we find that a business has made an error or omission, we consider 
what the impact of that error or omission was. In this case the impact was that there was a 
delay in Mr and Mrs B becoming aware of the amount of each charge. They have said that 
had they known that the charges would be added to their loan they would have looked for 
alternative borrowing. It is possible that would have been the case, however, doing so would 
have also incurred costs. Indeed, it is likely that those costs would have been higher than the 
extension fees charged, as there would have been an application/facility fee and broker fees. 
Given this, and Mr and Mrs Bs recently expressed concerns about the loan balance 
increasing, I am not persuaded that they would have refinanced rather than accepting the 
1% fee for each extension.
I note that Mr and Mrs B have said they were not sent any annual statements and didnt see 
any statements until 2021. I have examined the covering letters for the annual statements 
that have been provided and note that they were correctly addressed. I have no reason to 
doubt that the letters were sent, as there would be no other reason to produce them and 
they were generated by an automated process. Although some post does go astray, the 
majority that is correctly addressed is also correctly delivered. So while Mr and Mrs B may 
not have realised the import of the letters, I find that it is most likely that they would have 
received them.
Mr and Mrs B have raised concerns about the fact that the payments they were making 
didnt cover the interest being charged due to the addition of the fees. While only sent once a 
year, the covering letters for the annual statements made it clear that the extension fees had 
been applied and how much they were. Mr and Mrs B would also have been aware that 
interest would be charged on those fees, so if they had concerns that their monthly 
payments hadnt increased to cover that additional interest, they could have questioned it, 
either directly with EuroFund or through their broker. As they did not, I cant find that it is 
likely that if Mr and Mrs B had been told when the fees were added to the loan that they 
would have asked to increase their monthly payments. Indeed, I note that there were times 
that they struggled to make the monthly payments at the level they were, which would 
indicate that it was probably unlikely they would have chosen to change the payment and 
make it harder for themselves. Overall, while I know that Mr and Mrs B were not happy about the amount the balance of 
their loan increased to, I havent seen any evidence that the balance was incorrect or that 
EuroFund did anything wrong thereby causing it to be higher than it should have been.
Mr and Mrs B have said that they are unhappy that EuroFund communicated with them 
through their broker. Indeed they have said to us that they have been confused at times 
about who they should be talking to. Where a borrower has a broker, through which the loan 
or mortgage has been arranged, it is not unusual for that business to continue to provide 
assistance. That would especially be the case where alterations were being made to the 
arrangements in place. Where that is the situation, it would not be appropriate for a lender to 
decide that it wont communicate with the broker as the borrowers representative, unless it 
has very good reason to do so. As such, if Mr and Mrs Bs broker remained involved and 
communicated on their behalf with EuroFund, I cant find that it acted inappropriately in 
dealing with the broker.
EuroFund accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs B did not. They highlighted that EuroFund had not referenced the provision and 
content of annual statements when it responded to their complaint  they denied receipt of 
any of those documents and said that had they been, they would have questioned the 
charges applied and their complaint would never have needed to be made. They also said 
that their broker, who was a former director of EuroFund, had not mentioned that it was 
EuroFunds practice to issue annual statements and he would not have requested adhoc 
statements if that had been the case. Mr and Mrs B implied that they believed the 
statements had been created for the purposes of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted my point about the probable costs of refinancing the loan, but 
highlighted that they were denied the opportunity to pursue that route due to a lack of 
information. They said that both loan documents indicated that a fee was a possibility, but 
whether one would be charged was left to EuroFunds discretion. They reiterated that at no 
time when the extensions were granted was reference to fees made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly comment on Mr and Mrs Bs comment regarding the fee being discretionary in 
both of the loan documents. I have reviewed the documents again and I am not persuaded 
that their interpretation of the second document, which is the relevant one to this complaint, 
is correct. The matter of discretion was in relation to whether an extension would be granted, 
not whether a fee would be paid if one was. As such, I remain satisfied that Mr and Mrs B 
would have known a fee was due at the time the extensions were granted. It was only the 
amount of those fees that I havent seen being communicated at the relevant times, although 
as their broker was involved, it would have known to have asked this question if there was 
any uncertainty about the amount.
As for Mr and Mrs Bs belief that the annual statements EuroFund provided this service were 
created for the purposes of this complaint; the available evidence doesnt support that being 
the case. It would be normal for information to be provided on the status of a loan 
periodically, and there no reason Mr and Mrs Bs loan would be any different. As for their 
broker not mentioning that they would be provided with statements, I cant comment on what 
the broker knew, didnt know, or communicated in this decision. In addition, the statements 
would not have been sent to the broker, only to Mr and Mrs B, which would explain why the 
broker asked for information when it needed it. I am aware that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with my conclusions, but I dont consider 
EuroFund did anything wrong in its dealings with them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman