DRN-3114239
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr A reported that he noticed a text from HSBC about a new payee on his account and after 
he checked his online banking, there were two bank transfers to an account that he didnt 
recognise. They took Mr As account into an overdraft. Mr A explained to HSBC that he 
hadnt made these payments and he hadnt authorised them. He confirmed to HSBC that he 
hadnt given out any of his security information, nor had he lost his phone or lent it to 
anyone. Mr A told HSBC that he hadnt had any unusual messages or conversations with 
anyone discussing his online banking.
HSBC looked into the transactions and found that they were made by logging in to their 
internet portal from a device that was different to Mr As registered phone. The transfers 
were authorised using Mr As secure key. HSBC declined to refund Mr A, believing him 
responsible for making these transactions. 
Note: The secure key is either a physical device or an app that generates codes to assist 
with logging in to HSBCs online account and to confirm setting up new payees. In this case 
Mr A used an app registered to his phone.
Mr A complained to HSBC about the way theyd handled the issue and maintained that he 
hadnt carried out these transactions and didnt know the holder of the account where the 
money was sent to. HSBC looked into Mr As complaint but didnt change their position as 
they continued to believe he was responsible for the transactions. 
Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review where it 
was looked into by one of our investigators. Both HSBC and Mr A supplied information about 
the events leading up to the disputed transactions. Mr A explained that his laptop was stolen 
a few weeks prior to the payments leaving his account. He also confirmed his secure key 
was registered to his mobile phone. Mr A said he didnt know the person whose account 
received his funds. HSBC provided notes of their investigation and data about the payment. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for HSBC to hold Mr A liable for the payments 
because they were made using Mr As secure key and also noted some incoming 
payments into Mr As account just after the disputed transactions were made.
Mr A disagreed with the outcome and maintained that he hadnt authorised these payments. 
Mr A explained that he hadnt given permission for another device to use his online account. 
He believed that another mobile phone was registered without his knowledge and the 
incoming payments he received were unrelated to the outgoing payments. Mr A was critical 
of HSBC because some of their audit data was missing and thought their security might 
have been compromised. Mr A thought his side of the story wasnt being given the same 
weight as HSBCs and wanted the recipients account traced.
Mr A asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that HSBC can hold Mr A liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them 
or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, HSBC have supplied some evidence 
that shows the two payments were sent via access to Mr As internet banking account. 
Theyve also supplied information explaining how the secure key was needed to confirm 
the transactions. Id normally expect to examine more detailed information concerning 
transactions such as these, but HSBC have been unable to provide them. The information 
they have provided, when looked at overall, satisfies me that the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which HSBC and Mr A agreed to operate the account to allow 
HSBC to make payments on As behalf. For example, HSBCs terms and conditions set out 
that if a payment is arranged through mobile/internet banking and the account holder uses 
their security details to confirm the payment, then HSBC accept that the instruction to make 
the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because the transactions used a 
secure key to confirm the payment - Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed 
transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for 
HSBC to hold Mr A responsible, for example if his internet banking account was used 
without his permission.
When Mr A first notified HSBC about the disputed transactions, they investigated what had 
happened and recorded notes about this. Later, when asked for their evidence to support 
their position, they were able to provide some data, but not as in as much detail as I would 
usually expect. HSBC explained the two disputed payments couldnt have been authorised 
without the secure key and their systems hadnt registered any change of the secure key 
from Mr As registered mobile phone. So, HSBCs case is that because Mr A maintained 
control of his phone and hadnt given any information to anyone else, they believed he was 
responsible for the two disputed payments.
Mr A was critical of the lack of information supplied by HSBC and I can see why he felt this 
way. It does leave an element of doubt when certain parts of audit data arent available. But, 
were often faced with situations where some of the information is missing or conflicting and 
where thats the case, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Mr A reported his laptop was lost prior to the incident and he explained this was the only 
possible time some of his banking information could have been compromised. I can accept 
that certain pieces of data could be available from Mr As laptop, although what specific 
information was on it isnt clear. But, in order for someone other than Mr A to access his 
internet banking, they would need very specific information known only to him. This includes 
a passcode and access to his secure key, from which unique codes are generated to login 
in and set up a new payee. Whilst some of the required information could have been 
contained within his laptop, the secure key wasnt available to anyone other than Mr A. He 
confirmed he hadnt lost his phone (with the secure key on it) and had it in his possession when the disputed transactions occurred. So, I think it unlikely that the specific information 
needed to authorise the two disputed payments could have been made without the secure 
key. What that means here is I dont think an unauthorised third party was responsible for 
these transactions.
Mr A was under the impression that a second device was authorised to use his secure key, 
but thats not what happened here. HSBCs evidence is that his account was logged into 
from a different device and from the data Ive seen it was an internet banking login  rather 
than a mobile banking login using the banking app. The login from the new device used Mr 
As secure key that generated the unique codes from the app on his phone.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators assertion that later payments into his account were 
linked to the disputed transactions. I dont think theres any particular relevance to the 
payment of funds into Mr As account and I dont draw any inference from them. 
Mr A speculated that HSBCs security was the cause of the losses. Theres no evidence to 
support that assertion and the security information required to authorise the payment 
wouldnt be known to HSBC, including the passcode required to use the security key. So, I 
think it unlikely that HSBC were themselves involved with the payments.
Because HSBC believed Mr A responsible for the transactions, they didnt pursue the 
recipient of his funds. The recipients account was also with HSBC and in their report to the 
Financial Ombudsman they confirmed that no funds remained in the account. I dont think 
HSBC needed to do anything further with the recipients account once theyd completed their 
investigation and believed Mr A authorised the payments.
I appreciate Mr A thinks he wasnt being given equal weight when his complaint has been 
considered. My role is to assess the evidence from both parties, and Id like to assure Mr A 
that all his submissions and evidence have been considered before I came to my decision.
Whilst Im sure Mr A will disagree with me, the evidence Ive considered from both parties 
leads me to the objective conclusion that Mr A was more likely than not responsible for 
making these transactions. I say that because no one other than Mr A had access to the 
secure key, which was needed to generate the unique codes required to authorise the 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman