DRN-2723397
The complaint
Mr L complains that his insurers Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead), has unfairly 
declined his claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy.  
  
What happened
 In February 2020, Mr L contacted Fairmead to report damage to his roof following a storm. 
Fairmead sent out a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor concluded that the main 
cause of damage to the roof was due to poor workmanship and design and not as a result of 
any storm. So, Fairmead declined Mr Ls claim. 
Mr L was unhappy about this outcome and complained to Fairmead. He said that he had had 
some of the roof repaired in the previous year and these tiles remained in place. But the 
damage to the roof related to tiles that had become dislodged during the storm and caused a 
leak into his property which caused internal damage. In its final response, Fairmead said that 
the surveyors report confirmed that the damage to the roof wasnt as a result of a storm. It 
said that the damage was caused by poor design and installation of a roof window. So, the 
claim remained declined. 
Unhappy with Fairmeads decision, Mr L referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She concluded 
that although there were storm conditions present, the damage to the roof was as a result of 
poor workmanship and gradual wear and tear. So, she didnt think this was an insured peril 
and there was nothing more that she could reasonably ask Fairmead to do. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator as he felt that the damage had been caused as a 
result of the storm. He provided a video that showed the damage to the roof and indicated 
that the roof tiles that were replaced in the previous claim had been left intact, whilst the old 
roof tiles following the recent storm were dislodged. He said that where the new roof tiles 
had been laid and the window was in good order and not of a poor design as this wasnt 
where the water had been coming in. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 March 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 1 
April 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint.
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions 
at the time of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were, I must decide if Fairmead ought to 
have considered the claim under any other section of the policy.  
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally, 
reasonably decline a claim. 
I note that in Mr Ls policy there is no definition of what Fairmead would class as a storm. In 
this case we would say that a storm generally involves violent winds usually accompanied by 
rain. I have considered the local weather reports which are typically the best evidence I can 
rely on to check whether there were prevailing storm conditions. These show that at around 
the time of the claim, the wind speed was sufficiently strong enough and there was heavy 
rainfall, which would meet our requirements. So, I am satisfied that storm conditions were 
present at the time of the event. And the answer to the first question is yes.
I have next considered whether there was any damage caused-that was consistent with 
storm damage. Mr L said that roof tiles were blown off due to the storm. That water from the 
rain leaked into his property which caused damage such as damp patches and wallpaper 
peeling. I have been provided with photos of the internal damage as well as a video of the 
external damage to the roof tiles which had become dislodged. I am satisfied that there was 
damage caused both internally and externally, which was consistent with storm damage.
As Im satisfied that there was damage caused that was consistent with storm damage, the 
next question I need to consider is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. 
Fairmead said that the reason why the claim was declined was due to the poor design of the 
roof window and wear and tear. As part of my review, I asked Fairmead to provide me with 
its surveyors report. The report I received said: No insured cause, poor 
design/workmanship. It also showed a few photos of the property. 
Mr L has provided photos and a video. In the video he explained as well as showed where 
the damage occurred. He said that it happened near the gable end of the roof and showed 
the tiles that had become dislodged. He showed how the guttering was also dislodged and 
showed where the recent tiles that had been installed remained intact following the storm. 
Mr L also provided photographs which showed the damage caused by the water ingress. He 
said that the water had entered the property as a result of the loose roof tiles following the 
storm and not due to the poor design of the roof window or wear and tear. He said that there 
had been no issues with the roof at all prior to the storm and it had been in good condition. 
Fairmead surveyors report said the damage was due to poor workmanship and wear and 
tear. But its report lacks detail and doesnt explain where there was poor design or how it 
impacted the roof. On the other hand, the photos suggest the tiles are intact and theres little 
evidence to suggest they were the cause of ingress. So, on balance, I find that Fairmead 
hasnt shown that the exclusion should apply. Taking all of this into account, I think to put things right, Fairmead should reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
 
Putting things right
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L hasnt commented on my provisional decision. 
Fairmead sent me several logo images, a photo of a house and said that this showed the 
poor state of repair of the property. It claimed that the damage wasnt consistent with a one-
off storm event. But more a mixture of poor workmanship or faulty design of the loft 
conversion window and wear and tear. It also refuted the findings in the provisional decision 
as it said that I was unable to access the surveyors report. 
As mentioned in the provisional decision, I was able to review the surveyors report that 
Fairmead relied upon. I felt that it lacked sufficient detail to explain where the poor design 
was or how this impacted the roof. 
The photo that Fairmead sent showed the back of some houses. There was no information 
that accompanied the photo as to who owns the houses or whether any of the houses 
belonged to Mr Ls. Additionally, there just wasnt any indication as to what areas Fairmead 
thought were damaged by poor workmanship/design and it didnt explain why it reached this 
conclusion.
I have carefully considered the further information and comments sent in by Fairmead. But 
Im not satisfied that Fairmead has provided enough evidence to show that the exclusion 
applies and I recommend that Fairmead reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
To put matters right, Fairmead Insurance Limited must reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman