DRN-2949138
The complaint
 Mr W complains FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) have 
supplied him with a scooter which he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr W acquired a brand new scooter through a 60 month hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. The cash price of the scooter was £2,899.
In May 2019, following the service of the scooter, the following issues were found: 
- The suspension was fitted incorrectly which damaged the rear mud guard and tyre;
- The vacuum air hoses were split;
- Electric box rubber mounts were split.
The dealership arranged for a replacement tyre and vacuum air hoses to be sent to Mr W. 
Although he confirms receipt of the tyre, he said he never received the air hoses.
In October 2019, Mr W complained that he was experiencing more issues. He reported them 
as:
- Faulty speedometer; 
- The suspension was creaking;
- Areas of corrosion and flaking paintwork found in several parts of the scooter (mainly 
the foot panel). 
In regards to the speedometer, the dealership said it arranged for it to be replaced under 
warranty by another garage but Mr W said this didnt happen as the booking was cancelled.  
In relation to the corrosion, it was arranged by the dealership for the scooter to be taken to a 
third party garage, nearby to Mr W, for inspection. 
Mr W contacted the dealership again in April 2020 about the increased level of corrosion. 
They said this wouldnt be covered by warranty. However as a gesture of goodwill, they 
agreed to strip the paint of the affected areas, apply rust treatment and repaint it. Mr W 
initially declined this offer as they wouldnt cover the cost to collect and re-deliver the scooter 
however it was eventually taken to the dealership for the work to be carried out in May 2020. 
The dealership said they repaired the affected areas and carried out the necessary works 
following a brake safety recall. They advised Mr W to remove the chrome fork covers that he 
had fitted to the scooter to prevent the creaking noise and to use an anti-corrosion solution 
to prevent further issue. They said the vacuum hoses were split at the end but they werent 
able to replace them as they werent in stock but they said it wouldnt have a detrimental 
impact on the performance of the scooter. They found no faults with the speedometer or 
suspension. 
Following the repair, Mr W complained the issue with the corrosion remained and it was 
getting worse as it was showing on other parts of the scooter, such as the headlight. 
Mr W complained to MotoNovo. They said there was insufficient evidence the issues were 
present or developing at the point of supply therefore they didnt agree the scooter was of 
unsatisfactory quality. They also said as the dealership had carried out a number of repairs 
as a gesture of goodwill, if there were further issues, that was an agreement between them.
Unhappy with their response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
concluded as the scooter was new, it wasnt reasonable for corrosion to be present so soon 
after supply. She recommended MotoNovo repair the affected areas and pay £100 
compensation.
MotoNovo disagreed, they said:
- Corrosion can develop over a period of weeks; 
- The scooter wasnt adequately maintained and needed to be cleaned after every 
ride;
- Mr W lives nearby to the sea and this can increase corrosion;
- There is a lack of evidence the corrosion was developing within the first six months;
- Mr W had carried out modifications and this couldve caused the corrosion;
The investigator spoke to the third party garage who inspected the scooter, they 
commented:
- The corrosion is on the actual body of Mr Ws scooter and likely to be present before 
it was painted by the manufacturer;
- It can take up to 6 to 12 months for corrosion to develop but the environment can 
speed this up;
- The corrosion on Mr Ws scooter was normal for one that was four or five years old;
- The corrosion found in the foot bridge could be a sign of wear and tear;
- Specialist repairs would need to be carried out as a paint re-spray wont resolve the 
issue. 
Upon further review, although the investigator remained of the opinion the scooter wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, she said it wouldnt be reasonable to allow Mr W to reject it as 
modifications had been made. As the dealership said it would cost over £1,500 for this 
specialist repair, she thought it wasnt economical to recommend a repair but she did think 
MotoNovo needed to do more. She recommended they apply a 10% price reduction of the 
scooters cash price and pay £100 compensation. Both parties disagreed. 
In July 2021, I issued my provisional decision and said:
I intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W acquired the scooter under a regulated hire purchase agreement. MotoNovo is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a 
complaint about the supply and the quality of Mr Ws scooter.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into the contract that the quality of the
goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a vehicle, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the vehicles history.
MotoNovo has supplied Mr W with a brand new scooter so it would be reasonable to expect 
the quality of it to be higher than a more well used one. It is also reasonable to expect it 
would be free from defects for a significant amount of time.A number of points have been raised and although I may not comment on each one, I can 
assure both parties Ive carefully considered them but for the purposes of this decision I will 
focus on the corrosion as I find that to be the central issue.
Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties and I acknowledge MotoNovos 
comments that they dont think theres enough evidence to prove that the corrosion was 
present at supply. When looking at this complaint, Ive considered what is most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances based on evidence.
Having done so, Im most persuaded by the findings of the third party garage who inspected 
the scooter. I say this because its the opinion of an independent party who I assume had the 
experience and specialist knowledge to inspect the scooter given it was the dealership who 
arranged for it to be looked at by them. As Im not a vehicle engineer I think its reasonable 
to rely on their findings. 
The third party garage concluded the corrosion is likely to have been developing at the 
manufacturer stage before it was painted. They explained the web like effect found on the 
scooter shows the corrosion was on the bare metal and it was leaking through the 
paintwork. While they accepted corrosion can take up to 12 months and environment 
elements will play a factor, they said the corrosion found on Mr Ws scooter was normal for a 
bike that was a few years old. 
Ive thought about MotoNovos comments about Mr W living by the sea and how this is likely 
to increase the corrosion process. However there is insufficient evidence such as an 
independent inspection or expert opinion to demonstrate this was the cause of the level of 
corrosion found on Mr Ws scooter. Whilst the third party acknowledged environmental 
factors will play a part, they didnt conclude it was the cause of the corrosion on Mr Ws 
scooter. 
I think its unfair for MotoNovo to say the reason for corrosion was because the scooter 
wasnt reasonably maintained by Mr W or as a result of the modifications he made. Ive seen 
job cards showing the scooter was serviced in May 2019 and May 2020 at the intervals as 
per the user manual. Mr W said he has had many scooters in the past and he knows how to 
look after them, hes never experienced such issues and the scooter is kept in his shed so 
its covered. The third party garage also commented to our service that it was kept in a very 
good condition.
Ive already set out the high expectations of a new vehicle. Having considered the above, the 
scooters age (less than 12 months) and mileage (less than 500 miles), I wouldnt expect a 
brand new scooter to experience such an issue. On balance, I believe the corrosion was an 
inherent manufacturer fault which was present and or developing at the time of supply. 
Therefore Im not satisfied it was of satisfactory quality meaning there was a breach of 
contract. 
In circumstances where a fault is found, the CRA allows one opportunity for repair and this is 
what happened, the dealership carried out a repair in May 2020. Based on the pictures 
provided by Mr W of further areas displaying corrosion thereafter, Im not satisfied the repair 
fixed the issue. The third party garage said in order to resolve the corrosion, a specialist 
repair would need to be carried out and if done so correctly, it wouldnt re-appear. It seems 
the dealership carried out the repairs themselves but its unclear whether they had the 
specialist knowledge and or resources to sufficiently resolve the corrosion. If this is the case, 
its unlikely the repair would be sufficiently durable. In addition to the issue of corrosion, I can see there were other issues with the scooter and 
this meant a tyre needed to be replaced due to the suspension not being fitted correctly and 
the vaccum hoses were split. Taking into account what has happened and the issue of the 
corrosion continuing, I think its now fair to allow Mr W to reject the scooter.
MotoNovo should end the agreement with nothing further for Mr W to pay and collect it at no 
cost to him. In addition, it should refund the deposit of £300 plus pay 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. While I accept there were faults with 
the scooter as outlined above, it appears Mr W was still able to use it therefore I believe its 
fair he pays to reflect that use so I dont intend to ask for any of his monthly payments to be 
refunded.
I understand Mr W has carried out some modifications to the scooter such as fitting a new 
exhaust. He said it gives it a retro sound but it hasnt impacted its overall performance such 
as the speed. Based on the terms of the agreement, modifications are not permitted so I 
dont believe its fair to say MotoNovo should refund these costs. 
Lastly given Mr W has had to travel to different garages for repairs to be carried out and he 
was left without his scooter while this happened, I believe there has been a level of 
inconvenience so I think MotoNovo should also pay £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
In summary, due to the above faults, notably the corrosion, Im not satisfied Mr Ws scooter 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
Response to provisional decision
Mr W said he had spent over 12 months dealing with this matter and as a result he hadnt 
used the scooter as much as he had planned due to the ongoing issues. In addition to what 
was awarded in the provisional decision, he felt he should be refunded the monthly 
payments plus paid 8% simple interest. He also said he had paid £120 for the scooter to be 
returned to be repaired in May 2020.
MotoNovo responded with a number of points and provided additional evidence such as the 
scooter manual and warranty card. In summary, they said:
The dealership was led to believe the speedometer had been replaced but it wasnt 
but in any event they later found no fault with the speedometer;
As confirmed by the importer and manufacturer of the scooter, bodywork and 
corrosion isnt covered by warranty so no claim was made;
There was a casual agreement between the dealership and the third party garage to 
service the scooter. The third party garage are not paint experts, therefore they cant 
supply a qualifying report;
When the scooter was repaired in May 2020, the work was carried out by bodywork 
specialists;
The modifications made by Mr W to the scooter are presumed to have damaged the 
paintwork.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive taken into account what the manual says and what the warranty covers, Ive also 
considered the relevant law which says the quality of goods should be satisfactory. For the 
reasons explained above, I dont believe a brand new scooter should experience such 
issues so soon after its supply so Im not convinced it was of satisfactory quality. There have 
been repairs but issues still remain, namely the corrosion. Although the dealership said we 
cant rely on the comments of the independent third party garage, they havent provided any 
alternative independent evidence or expert opinion. So I remain of the belief that its fair to 
rely on what the third party garage has said. Equally, I cant reasonably conclude the 
modifications made by Mr W led to the corrosion and/or damage to the paintwork. Lastly if 
the repair in May 2020 was carried by a bodywork specialists, I dont think its reasonable to 
expect ongoing signs of corrosion thereafter, which suggest the repair wasnt sufficiently 
durable. 
While I appreciate what Mr W has said especially concerning the use of the scooter, Im 
satisfied he was able to use it so it wouldnt be fair to ask MotoNovo to refund the monthly 
payments. Mr W said he paid £120 to return the scooter to be repaired. In order for me to 
award any out of pocket expenses as a result of the scooter being of unsatisfactory quality at 
the time of supply, I would generally expect to have evidence of the same. As Mr W has 
been unable to provide this, I wont be asking MotoNovo to reimburse him for this cost. 
Given the circumstances, I consider what Ive said MotoNovo must do to put things right to 
be a fair resolution. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint for the same reasons as outlined in the provisional decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
To put things right, FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance should:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mr W to pay;
- Collect the scooter at no cost to Mr W;
- Refund the deposit plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
- Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ws credit file.
- Pay £150 compensation to Mr W for the trouble and upset caused. 
If FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance considers tax should be deducted 
from the interest part of my award it should provide Mr W with a certificate showing how 
much it has taken off, so he can reclaim that amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman