DRN-1752854
 
The complaint
Mrs T's complaint concerns an endowment policy taken out for her by her late father with a 
predecessor business of Utmost Life and Pensions Limited. She's unhappy with the policy's 
maturity value, as she feels she was led to believe it would be significantly higher. 
What happened
The policy was taken out in 1971 as an 'industrial branch' with profits endowment. The 
premiums were £1 every four weeks and the policy was due to mature in 2019. 
In 2015 Mrs T's father sadly passed away and as part of the process of administrating his 
financial affairs Mrs T contacted Utmost to find out the situation with the policy - whether she 
could continue with it, the surrender value, etc. 
During the course of several phone conversations Utmost confirmed that Mrs T would be 
able to continue payment of the premiums and a direct debit was arranged. It also confirmed 
in writing that the surrender value at that point was just under £13,800. Mrs T has said that 
during these phone calls it was indicated to her that the policy's maturity value would be 
around £15,000.
In 2019 when the policy was due to mature Mrs T discovered that the value was actually just 
under £9,000. She was very unhappy that this was so much less than the surrender value 
she'd been provided with in 2015 and also the £15,000 figure.
She complained to Utmost but it didn't uphold the complaint. It explained that it had reduced 
the terminal bonuses applicable to its with profits fund and had been doing so with half-
yearly reviews since 2016. It said this related tochanges in regulatory requirements in 
respect of solvency levels had led to a fall in surpluses for its non-profits business. It referred 
Mrs T to its with profits policyholder guide for more detail.
Utmost added that it could find no evidence that Mrs T had been told the policy would 
mature with a value of £15,000. It did, however, note that an error had led to an additional 
bonus being missed from the maturity value and it arranged for this to be paid. 
Mrs T then referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator also didn't think it 
should be upheld. She obtained recordings of a number of phone calls Mrs T had with 
Utmost in 2015 but didn't feel that during any of them Mrs T had been given a guarantee 
about how much the policy might be worth. This was also true of the documentation provided 
at the time.
Mrs T didn't accept the investigator view. She highlighted her concern that the only call not 
available seemed to be the one in which the £15,000 figure had been mentioned. She said, 
in summary, that she had no confidence in Utmost to either manage investments or to 
communicate with its customers. She asked that the matter be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I quite understand why Mrs T wouldve been unhappy to receive the value paid by
Utmost in 2019 as compared to the indicative surrender value provided in 2015. A  reduction 
from nearly £14,000 to under £9,000 is by any measure a significant decrease. But that said, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that the reduction was a result of an error - save for the 
missed bonus of £143. 
Its important to remember that any indicative value given for a with profits investment is 
exactly that, an indication, and it isnt guaranteed. In effect, what is being provided is a snap 
shot of a policys value based on the situation at that specific time. The smoothing process 
may have acted to build up a significant reserve that wouldve been reflected in the level of 
the terminal bonus at that time. But, as noted, this can change quite quickly as 
circumstances change  such as those identified by Utmost in its final response letter  and 
there is no obligation on the business to notify policyholders of such changes.
I've noted Mrs T's recollections of the phone conversation in which she says she was told 
the policy would mature with a value of £15,000. But without any further evidence to support 
this, I don't think I can reasonably conclude that Utmost gave this sort of guarantee. I accept 
a member of staff may have been quite encouraging about a potential maturity value. For 
instance, in one of the other calls Mrs T was told that it was generally expected that an early 
surrender value for a policy would be less than its maturity value (although this was not said 
in a way that suggested any sort of guarantee was being provided). But I think it more likely 
than not that if at any point a figure of £15,000 was mentioned it would've been in the 
context of a potential value rather than a guarantee. In all the other calls the staff members 
were careful to say that a maturity value couldn't be provided.  
So, in summary, while I understand how disappointing and frustrating this will have been for 
Mrs T, I don't think Utmost has done anything wrong. I'm satisfied it's acted in accordance 
with the policy's terms. Although it may be of little consolation to Mrs T, it is worth 
remembering that a total of £624 was paid to the policy since her father took it out on 1971, 
and it paid out nearly £9,000, which  while clearly not as much as the 2015 figure  still 
represents a reasonable return. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman