DRN-3568676
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline his claim.  
What happened
Mr K has income protection insurance through Aviva, provided by his employer. He works as 
an associate in a warehouse and his job role is one which requires manual work. In April 
2021, he became to unwell to work owing to lower back and knee pain. Mr K was diagnosed 
with chondromalacia patella and mild canal stenosis. He said hes unable to work because of 
his symptoms. He takes prescription pain relief medication to manage those symptoms and 
has engaged with a physiotherapist. Mr K said Aviva has unfairly declined his claim because 
hes unable to work either in his current role, or any other that he may be suited to. 
Aviva said it declined Mr Ks claim fairly because it believes hes able to work with 
reasonable adjustments, like additional breaks and shorter hours. It also highlighted that Mr 
Ks policy will only provide cover should he be unable, on medical grounds, to work in any 
other occupation he may be suited to by way of experience or training.
Our investigator agreed with Aviva and said that Mr K didnt meet the policy terms because 
there wasnt enough medical evidence to show he was fully incapacitated. He also said that 
Mr K was suited to administration work, a sedentary role, because hed previously worked in 
this industry. 
Mr K, unhappy with this, asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and said that 
although hed worked as an administrator previously, this wasnt for very long and was 
through a family connection. Mr K said he therefore lacks the experience required for this 
type of work. He also said hes been unable to find an administrative job and that this will 
impact his working visa and have serious consequences for the rest of his intended stay 
here in the UK. And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator in that Mr K didnt bring a valid claim because hed not 
satisfied the policy criteria. Mr K needed to show that he was incapacitated and unable to 
fulfil the demands of his role as a warehouse operative. Im not persuaded that Mr K did this 
because there wasnt enough medical evidence to support his claim. Ill explain why. 
To be clear the policy terms say;
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her normal 
occupation and other occupations to which they are suited by reason of education, training 
or experience, as a result of their illness or injury 
So, for Mr K to bring a valid claim, hed need to show his illnesses are severe enough for him 
to be incapacitated. And so, Ive considered the medical evidence available and theres not 
enough to persuade me that his illnesses would prevent him working. I say that because 
although Mr K has mild canal stenosis, it wasnt severe enough to require surgical 
intervention. Also, there was no detailed rationale provided that would adequately explain 
why Mr K couldnt work. Typically, Id have expected to see comments from a suitably 
qualified professional responsible for his care, explaining, in detail, Mr Ks limitations.
Similarly, theres not enough medical evidence to suitably explain why Mr Ks knee problems 
would prevent him from working. And so, I agree that Aviva declined Mr Ks claim fairly on 
that basis. Its for Mr K to show Aviva that he had a valid claim and not the other way. I 
thought Avivas comments about reasonable adjustments were also fair. It said Mr K and his 
employer must attempt to explore reasonable adjustments to help facilitate Mr Ks return to 
work. Ive considered Avivas position on that point and I agreed with its suggestion that Mr K 
could try working shorter shifts, he was employed to work 20 hours per week and this 
couldve been spread over additional days. It also recommended he take additional breaks 
throughout the day. Im satisfied that these recommendations were proportionate and 
reasonable. But Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mr K engaged with his employer 
about this. 
Mr K made further representations in response to Avivas comments about him being able to 
work in administration. To be clear, Ive read and understood the points he made. In 
summary, Mr K said hes not suitably qualified to do this because he lacks the experience, 
despite having worked in that industry previously. Im not persuaded this argument makes a 
material difference to the outcome of this complaint because of what Ive just explained 
about there not being enough medical evidence to show he was fully incapacitated. But, 
even if I thought it did, I still wouldnt find his arguments persuasive because the policy says 
any other occupation that he may be suited to by way of experience. And Im satisfied Mr K 
has experience in administration as he previously worked as an administrator in a medical 
facility. 
Further, the medical evidence Ive seen doesnt suitably explain why he wouldnt medically 
be able to fulfil the material duties of a sedentary role in administration. 
Mr K highlighted that he would be unable to stay in the UK should he not find alternative 
work. I understand his arguments here, but I dont think it fair or reasonable hold Aviva 
responsible for the consequences of Mr K being unable to work. Ive also not seen any 
evidence of Aviva discriminating against Mr K, like he suggested. Mr K hasnt been specific 
here or explained why he feels that way beyond its decision to decline his claim, but for 
clarity, Ive considered Avivas actions overall and Ive not seen anything that causes any 
concern about its conduct here. I also note that Aviva said that should Mr K retrieve more 
medical evidence to explain why he was medically not fit to work, then it wouldve 
considered this and whether it made any bearing on its decision  which I thought was fair. 
It's for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman