DRN-1040298
 
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that she cant make transfers from her TSB Bank plc account using online 
banking.
What happened
In 2018 TSB made changes to its IT systems. Unfortunately this didnt go as TSB hoped, 
and meant some of its customers  including Miss A  encountered various issues.
Miss A in particular wasnt able to access messages on her internet banking, and her online 
account balance wasnt showing correctly. She also wasnt able to pay her full credit card 
balance because her online banking had defaulted to making the minimum payment.
Miss A went into her local TSB branch to talk about the interest shed had to pay on her 
credit card. She also wanted to make a large payment from her TSB account to a savings 
account. TSB told Miss A she could make the payment online.
When Miss A tried to make the payment she needed to enter a passcode, which TSB would 
send by text message or phone call. Miss A doesnt have a mobile and has a call blocker on 
her landline, so wasnt able to retrieve the code she needed.
Miss A complained  saying shed missed out on the interest rate on offer from the savings 
account shed tried to transfer money into. 
TSB replied to Miss As complaint and apologised for the trouble shed been caused. It 
offered her £250 to say sorry, as well as a further £56.19 for the cost of coming into the 
branch and the interest shed paid on her credit card.
Regarding her attempts to transfer money, it explained the passcode was a security 
measure, and it had taken a business decision to send it only by text or phone. It said she 
could also make payments in branch. 
One of our adjudicators looked into things and thought the way TSB had offered to put things 
right was fair. He thought the amount TSB had offered was reasonable in light of the trouble 
Miss A had been caused following TSBs IT issues. And he didnt think TSB ought to be held 
responsible for Miss A missing out on savings account rates.
Miss A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. She didnt think it was 
fair she couldnt receive the passcode just because she didnt have a mobile and blocked 
unknown numbers from calling her landline.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our adjudicator, I think the amount TSB offered in light of Miss As issues following its IT 
upgrade is fair. Im glad to see it apologised for the service she received, including when one 
of its staff put the phone down on her. And that its paid for the interest on her credit card. 
Looking at everything that happened I think £306.19 fairly compensates Miss A for the costs 
she incurred and the trouble she was caused following TSBs IT upgrade.
What remains in dispute is whats happened since. Namely, the problems Miss As had 
sending money from her TSB account using online banking.
Miss A hasnt been able to use her online banking to make large transfers, because TSB 
adds an extra authorisation step for big payments to new payees. I dont think its 
unreasonable for it to put in place processes to reduce the risk of fraud, and this second step 
 using Miss As phone number  seems a fair way of achieving that aim. It means, for 
example, were someone to get hold of Miss As online banking login details they wouldnt be 
able to transfer large amounts from her accounts. That seems to me to be in her best 
interests.
TSBs transaction approval uses a code sent to Miss A. TSB can send it by text or over the 
phone. Miss A doesnt have a mobile and her landline blocks calls. While I can understand 
why Miss As taken the step of installing a call blocker, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require TSB to offer some other facility in order for Miss A to receive a 
code. It offers two different ways of receiving a code, and Miss A always has the ability to 
make a transfer in person, in a branch, as well. Im satisfied that offering this range of 
options isnt unfair on Miss A.
TSBs said it cant give Miss A a specific number it will call from  because its not the same 
each time. So if Miss A wants to transfer money from her online banking, shell have to allow 
calls to her landline for a short spell. I dont think thats unreasonable. It follows that I dont 
think its TSBs fault Miss A missed out on the ability to put her money in particular savings 
accounts. While it may not have been the way she preferred to do things, Im not persuaded 
TSB made an error or unfairly prevented her transferring money if she wanted.
I note Miss A says she spoke to staff in branch, who told her to use online banking rather 
than transfer the money there and then. I also dont think this was an unreasonable 
suggestion. I think it would be fair for the staff  without Miss A alerting them otherwise  to 
have presumed Miss A could receive either a text or a phone call if she needed to. I dont 
think those means of communication are so unusual that the staff ought to have highlighted 
this need to Miss A.
In summary, I think TSBs offer to Miss A is fair in light of the trouble she was caused 
following its IT issues. And I dont think its responsible for Miss As inability to move her 
money around as she wished.
 
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given I think TSB Bank plcs offer to compensate Miss A is fair. If it 
hasnt done so already, it should pay her £306.19.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman