DRN-2802508
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mrs T and Mr W in 1995, in connection with 
a mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr W if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs T and Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs T and Mr Ws case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mrs T and Mr Ws needs?
- Did Halifax give Mrs T and Mr W the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mrs 
T and Mr W are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs T and Mr Ws case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs T and Mr W say they didnt ask for the PPI and they didnt need it. The difficulty I have is 
that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs T and Mr W and Halifax when the 
policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened over twenty five years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much evidence from the point of sale, which isnt 
surprising given the amount of time thats passed. But its provided copies of its electronic 
records showing details of the information collected when Mrs T and Mr W applied for the 
mortgage and PPI. This indicates Mr T had to answer a number of questions so that Halifax 
could check he was eligible for the policy. On balance I think its unlikely Halifax wouldve 
added the PPI to Mrs W and Mr Ts account if they hadnt agreed to buy it. 
So without anything else to support what Mrs T and Mr W have told me, I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mrs T and Mr W to take out the policy and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
- Mr W was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr W says he was entitled to employer sick pay if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident, and that he and Mrs T had some savings. But the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to Mr Ws employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having 
the policy in place wouldve meant Mrs T and Mr W could use Mr Ws employer 
benefits and their savings to pay for other expenses. So overall, I think Mr W and Mrs 
T wouldve had some use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements. 
- Mr W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs T needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs T and Mr W before they 
agreed to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mrs T and Mr W would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs T and Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mrs T and Mr W 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman