DRN-3089244
The complaint
Mr G is a director of C, a limited company, and brings a complaint on Cs behalf about AXA
Insurance UK Plc declining a claim made under a Management Liability insurance policy.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision last month explaining why I was minded to uphold this 
complaint and setting out what I thought AXA needed to do to put things right. AXA replied 
saying it had nothing to add but I havent seen a response from Mr G.
I set out the background as follows;
Around March 2017 potential criminal activity was discovered within C. The matter was
reported to police and around two years later an ex-employee of C was sentenced by a court
for various offences including theft and fraud by false representation.
In terms of the insurance policy, it started in 2017 and was renewed the following year and
scheduled to expire at the end of January 2019. AXA was first notified of a potential claim in
July 2018; its not in dispute that the policy covered direct financial loss caused by the
dishonesty of an employed person discovered during the period of insurance. And the level
of indemnity was capped at £100,000 for any one claim in any one period of insurance.
In short, AXA declined Cs claim explaining that the relevant period of insurance was that
relating to discovery in March 2017, and this was in the policy year February 2017 to
January 2018. AXA said;
The policy expressly states that the discovery must have occurred during the relevant
period of insurance (i.e. within 01 February 2018  31 January 2019) and does not require
the dishonesty to have been established i.e. proven in law.
Accordingly, the terms and conditions of the Employee Dishonesty coverhave not been
satisfied and therefore the policy cannot respond to this Claim.
AXA also raised concerns about fair presentation of risk when the policy was renewed in
2018. AXA said that C made no disclosure about the incident it was now claiming for, which
breached the fair presentation of risk condition and reserved its rights in that respect.
Mr G on Cs behalf has said they were told specifically by police not to say anything about 
the matter to anyone to protect the police investigation. And so they notified AXA at the first
opportunity, which was once charges against several defendants had been raised. 
One of our investigators explained that we usually look at rejections for late notification in the
light of whether a business has been prejudiced by the lateness of the notification. For
example, he pointed to issues such as whether lateness had led to difficulties including;
tracing witnesses
preserving evidence
increased costs
The investigator didnt think it would be reasonable for an insurer to expect a customer to go
against police directions during an investigation. And a parallel insurance investigation could
risk tipping off parties under investigation. The investigator wasnt persuaded that detriment
or prejudice had been demonstrated given the police investigation had concluded. So, his
view was that defeating the claim for late notification wasnt fair or reasonable.
He considered AXAs points on the period of insurance but concluded that this posed
problems in this case because of the potential issues impacting on the police investigation
and of tipping off other parties.
The investigator recommended that AXA;
Disregard the late notification.
Assess Cs claim in line with the remaining policy conditions and to also factor in an
underwriting assessment of pricing at the 2018 renewal and risk acceptability.
Where the risk is acceptable and other policy terms and conditions satisfied, AXA
should pay a pro-rata settlement.
AXA disagreed with the investigator saying, in summary;
oThere was no evidence to substantiate an assertion that police directed that 
nothing at all be said.
oIts not likely that claim notification would lead or give rise to a prosecution for 
obstructing a police investigation or interfere with said investigation.
oAnd, other reasons given by Mr G for late notification included not knowing 
how to deal with an insurance claim and an initial belief that the matter wasnt 
covered by the policy.
AXA asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
I gave the following reasons explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint and what 
AXA should do to put things right;
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. DISP 
3.6.4R says I need to take into account relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The crux of the complaint centres on AXAs decision to reject Cs claim. Under 
relevant industry rules an insurer must, among other things, not unreasonably reject 
a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy).
Policy coverage
The relevant part of the policy states;
Employee dishonesty cover
We will pay for your direct financial loss caused by the dishonesty of an employed 
person discovered during the period of insurance.Provided that there was a clear intention to cause you financial loss or damage and 
for that person to obtain a financial gain other than salary, bonus or commission.
The most we will pay under this cover is £100,000 for any one claim. This is also the 
most we will pay for all Employee dishonesty claims in any one period of insurance.
AXAs disagreement is predicated on its assertion that the policy expressly states 
that the discovery must have occurred during the relevant period of insurance (i.e. 
within 01 February 2018  31 January 2019). Looking at this against the Employee 
dishonesty cover AXA will pay for direct financial loss caused by the dishonesty 
discovered during the period of insurance.
As a matter of construction, I think its likely that this means the period of insurance 
for the discovery. In this case, that would mean the policy year February 2017 to 
January 2018 because C discovered potentially fraudulent activity in March 2017. Im 
also mindful that Mr G became aware in that earlier policy year of the nature of the 
financial loss because of the fraudulent activity. However, I also bear in mind that 
AXA insured C during that year and so I turn my thoughts towards what is fair and 
reasonable. AXA hasnt argued that it suffered any detriment or prejudice in terms of 
the claim itself. Indeed, a prosecution was concluded with a defendant receiving a 
sentence from a court for theft and fraud offences. In addition, the defendant was 
ordered to pay C an amount of compensation. So, based on the policy cover and the 
fact that AXA was the insurer for both years, Im satisfied AXAs rejection is 
unreasonable.
Late notification
Under the policy general conditions for claims notification, claims are required to be 
notified to AXA as soon as possible within the period of insurance or at the latest 
within 45 days after it expires. Furthermore, C is required to immediately send 
various documents if received (including legal documents) and, usually, immediately 
notify police of fraudulent activity. AXA makes it clear that where this hasnt been 
complied with, it will not pay a claim. 
Strictly speaking, the mere fact of late notification may of itself be enough to defeat 
an otherwise genuine claim under AXAs policy. Again though, Im considering all the
information to determine what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I 
consider what prejudice or detriment, if any, the late notification has caused AXA. 
And Im doing this because it could be unfair to reject an otherwise genuine and 
meritorious claim because of the timing of the notification.
Regarding the claim itself AXA hasnt raised any issue that may have caused it 
detriment or prejudice. The potentially fraudulent activity was seemingly reported to 
police immediately, and its worth repeating that the criminal prosecution concluded 
with a defendant being sentenced for theft and fraud offences. Ive also thought 
about the reasons behind the late notification, that is C saying police told them not to 
say anything for fear of impeding the investigation. Its not unusual in my experience 
for ongoing investigations, criminal or indeed insurance, to require confidentiality. 
That Mr G interpreted this as a say nothing to anyone direction is understandable, 
given the sensitive nature of the criminal activity. Having considered this aspect 
carefully Im satisfied that in all the circumstances AXA is unfairly rejecting Cs claim 
because of late notification given it didnt prejudice AXAs position or indeed the 
police investigation.
Fair presentation of risk conditionThe relevant period for the claim to be made was in year one  2017 to 2018. Ive 
explained why I think its unfair to reject the claim based on the policy coverage terms 
and late notification conditions. And so, all things considered the year one policy is 
what the claim should be assessed against as thats when the risk materialised and 
indeed by that point C had suffered financial loss because of the employees 
dishonesty.
At renewal in 2018 (year two), renewal documents show C was required to tell AXA 
of any information that may influence it in accepting the insurance provided. 
Specifically, it refers to any variations at renewal. And it warns that inaccuracies and 
omissions may mean the policy doesnt protect C in the event of a claim. The 
documents say cover is based, among other things, on the fact that there are no 
claims or incidents giving rise to claims in the past five years. Of course, had things 
gone as they should, AXA would have been aware of the nature of the claim and so 
could have factored that into its renewal price and terms. But it wouldnt have 
affected the claim that had already materialised. Indeed, had the claim been made 
and C renewed with a different provider AXA would have been handling the claim 
under the year one policy terms.
The Insurance Act 2015 is relevant law for non-consumer insurance contracts and 
places a duty on the insured to make a fair presentation of risk. This duty includes 
disclosing every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know. 
Clearly Cs director, Mr G, was aware of the police investigation and the financial loss 
due to fraud so should have told AXA at renewal. Where the insured breaches this 
duty the insurer, AXA, has a remedy against C if it can show that it wouldnt have 
entered into the contract at all or would have but on different terms. For reasons 
already explained Im not satisfied the breach was deliberate or reckless  Im 
satisfied Mr G genuinely believed he couldnt say anything at all because of the 
police investigation.
The renewal breach was not relevant or material to the claim itself. Under the 
Insurance Act remedies for breaches are detailed in Schedule 1 of the Act. 
Paragraphs 4 to 6 apply if the qualifying breach was neither deliberate nor reckless 
as Im satisfied is the case here. AXA may have charged more for cover and that 
remedy is paragraph 6. Im not aware of any claim in year two but C has stated it is 
willing to pay any additional premium AXA would have charged. I think that balances 
fairly the issues in this complaint.
Putting things right
As I outlined at the very start, I differ from the redress the investigator recommended. 
The consequence of the investigators view is that the claim would be considered 
under the 2018 (year 2) policy and the outcome of that is to be determined by the 
underwriting assessment of the policy renewal. This could still lead to an otherwise 
genuine claim being rejected should, for example, AXA not have offered a policy at 
renewal.
AXA says, and I agree, the 2017 to 2018 policy is the relevant one for the claim. And 
in these circumstances, Im not satisfied its fair or reasonable that the 2018 renewal
reassessment should jeopardise what might be an otherwise genuine claim the 2017 
policy covers. To that end, Im satisfied the claim should be reviewed separately and 
distinct from the 2018 renewal assessment. The points I outline below reflect the fact 
that AXA may reach an outcome on the 2018 renewal in which it should have a 
relevant remedy. But, at the same time, it insulates the claim consideration which 
should be reassessed under the earlier 2017 policy.1. AXA must assess Cs claim under the policy 2017 to 2018 terms and conditions 
and in doing so;
a. disregard the late notification condition
b. disregard the original reason it rejected the claim for it not being made in the 
relevant period 
c. handle the claim promptly and fairly
d. provide written reasons explaining its decision of the reassessment
2. AXA can reassess the 2018 renewal if it chooses to, and if doing so;
a. establish what, if any, additional premium it would have charged
b. If under 1 above AXA pays the claim then it can reduce that amount by the 
additional premium it would have charged 
c. If AXAs assessment demonstrates it wouldnt have offered a policy at all, 
then it can declare the 2018 policy void but must return the premium paid to 
C. 
d. Provide written reasons to C explaining any decision it reaches on the 2018 
renewal assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything carefully, and in the absence of additional information from 
either party, Im satisfied my provisional determination achieves an outcome thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.   
Putting things right
1. AXA must assess Cs claim under the policy 2017 to 2018 terms and conditions and in 
doing so;
a. Disregard the late notification condition
b. Disregard the original reason it rejected the claim for it not being made in the 
relevant period 
c. Handle the claim promptly and fairly
d. Provide written reasons to C explaining its decision of the reassessment.
2. AXA can reassess the 2018 renewal if it chooses to, and if doing so;
a. Establish what, if any, additional premium it would have charged.
b. If under 1 above AXA pays the claim, then it can reduce that amount by the 
additional premium it would have charged.c. If AXAs assessment demonstrates it wouldnt have offered a policy at all, then it 
can declare the 2018 policy void but must return the premium paid to C. 
d. Provide written reasons to C explaining any decision it reaches on the 2018 
renewal assessment.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to put things right in accordance 
with the section above (Putting things right).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman