DRN-4441584
The complaint
Miss H complains that Golden Leaves Ltd will retain a 20% cancellation fee, should she 
choose to cancel her plan. She says she wasnt made aware of the plans terms and 
conditions and the fee is unreasonable.
What happened
In brief summary, in 2013, Miss H bought a pre-paid funeral plan, through a local funeral 
director. 
Earlier this year, Miss H contacted Golden Leaves to enquire about the surrender value of 
her plan. Golden Leaves provided this information and explained thered be a cancellation 
fee, amounting to £556.20. 
Miss H was very unhappy about this and complained. But Golden Leaves didnt uphold her 
complaint, saying the cancellation fee was part of its standard terms and conditions which 
were provided to her when she bought the plan. 
Miss H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, saying she was never 
given Golden Leaves terms and conditions, nor made aware of the 20% cancellation fee. 
She thought she should receive a full refund. An investigator looked into things but didnt 
uphold her complaint. He said Miss H had signed her application form, confirming shed read 
and understood the terms and conditions. 
Miss H says the signature on the application form is not hers and maintains she wasnt 
aware of the cancellation fee. She says if shed received terms she wouldve read them 
carefully.
Miss H asked for an ombudsman to review matters, so her complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
By way of clarification, I note Miss H has shared some concerns regarding her partners 
funeral in 2019. Whilst I acknowledge her concerns, I must stress that this complaint - and 
therefore my decision - relates only to her dissatisfaction with Golden Leaves cancellation 
fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I recognise my decision will disappoint 
Miss H and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons.
Golden Leaves has relied on its terms and on Miss Hs application form as evidence the 
terms were provided to her at the time of sale. I can see the terms explain about the 
cancellation fee. The application form includes, just above the signature box, the following 
statements:
Please sign below if you have checked all the details on the form and believe they 
are a true description of the funeral arrangements you require. By signing this form 
you are confirming that you have read and understood the Terms & Conditions of 
Golden Leaves Plans. 
Miss H says she received limited documentation from the funeral director, which she 
retained and provided to this service to support her complaint. Shes adamant there were no 
terms and conditions and that, as Golden Leaves suggested, shed not simply forgotten 
about receiving them or, perhaps, mislaid them. I appreciate the strength of her feeling on 
these points.
Our investigator provided Miss H with a copy of the application form Golden Leaves relies 
on. Miss H maintains the signature isnt hers and provided documents with her signature to 
show its been consistent over many years. As a lay person in this respect  that is, not a 
handwriting expert - I cant say the signatures appear sufficiently dissimilar for me to be 
satisfied the one on the application form isnt Miss Hs. So Im left with conflicting evidence. 
Golden Leaves produced a signed application form and said terms wouldve been provided 
to Miss H. Miss H provided strong testimony she never received the terms. However, 
thinking about the circumstances as a whole, I dont think I need to make a finding on 
whether or not Miss H received the terms and understood there was a cancellation fee. I say 
this because even if I were to accept Miss Hs testimony over Golden Leaves 
documentation and find there was a problem at the time of sale, in order to require Golden 
Leaves to do as Miss H wants and waive the cancellation fee, Id need to be satisfied the 
provision of terms wouldve made a difference. In other words, if Miss H had seen the terms 
and understood, in 2013, a cancellation fee applied, would that have stopped her buying the 
plan? 
Generally, people buy funeral plans to gain peace of mind. A plan provides security  a 
guarantee that ones wishes and requirements will be delivered at the time of need, without 
significant additional cost to ones estate. Miss H has said she was prompted to enquire 
about a plan after a friend bought one. Shed originally intended just to enquire about the 
cost. But at the appointment, she bought a plan, paying in full on her credit card. 
Miss H has now had that plan for over ten years. This suggests to me that, having decided 
she wanted to buy a plan  a plan that at the time, in 2013, she would fully anticipate being 
used in the future  knowing about the cancellation fee wouldnt have stopped Miss H going 
ahead with the purchase, because she wouldnt have expected ever to have to pay that fee. 
For reasons unforeseen at the time of sale, Miss H now wishes to cancel her plan. I can 
understand why shes unhappy about the cancellation fee and feels this is unfair. But overall, 
Im not satisfied knowing about the cancellation fee at the time wouldve stopped Miss H 
buying a plan. So I dont think Golden Leaves would be treating Miss H unfairly in applying 
the cancellation fee applicable to her plan, should she wish to go ahead with cancellation 
now. 
Once again, Im sorry to send unwelcome news to Miss H.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman