DRN-4157001
The complaint
Mr A and Mr G have complained that AWP P&C SA failed to meet a claim made under their 
travel insurance policy in full.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the claim 
paid up to the policy limit. He didnt find that there was a failure to take reasonable care on 
the part of Mr A.
AWP, who underwrites the policy, didnt agree. It said that Mr A had had the condition for 
which he was taken ill abroad since 2016. It said it wouldnt be practical to ask customers if 
they have specific conditions, rather it is the customers responsibility to call to tell the 
insurer about any medical conditions they have. Accordingly it proportionately paid the claim 
 reducing the settlement by the percentage that it considered Mr A underpaid.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show 
it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt 
made the misrepresentation. 
AWP felt that Mr A had failed to take reasonable care  in that he didnt disclose that 
he had previously suffered with atrial fibrillation. Ive considered the questions that Mr 
A was asked when taking out the policy. The relevant question here is:  Have you 
been diagnosed with or treated for any cancerous, respiratory, heart or circulatory 
conditions, thats problems with blood flow including high blood pressure, strokes, 
and high cholesterol? Mr A answered Yes to this question. In response to this the 
call handler asked Mr A further questions with regard to blood pressure but failed to 
clarify if there were any further heart or circulatory conditions.
Im satisfied that during the call Mr A is very frank and answers all questions he is 
asked accurately. By way of example he offered to disclose all medications and 
disclosed recent shoulder treatment. AWP argues that it wouldnt be possible or 
practical to ask customers if they have specific conditions but as per the policy terms 
and conditions and that it is the customers responsibility to call and tell AWP about 
any medical conditions they have. But AWP did ask about heart or circulatory 
conditions and Mr A answered positively. 
Whether or not a customer has taken reasonable care is to be determined in the light 
of all the relevant circumstances. The question asked covered various conditions. Mr 
As positive answer should have prompted the call handler to ask follow up 
questions. He did, but these were limited to blood pressure. In all the circumstances I 
cant conclude that there were any failings on Mr As part. He took reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation to AWP. As there was no misrepresentation the 
remedies available under CIDRA, such as the proportionate settlement made here, 
dont apply.
For completeness I would add that notwithstanding the health declaration and 
exclusions in the policy, I find there was no misrepresentation. Having answered all 
the health questions he was asked truthfully and having been told that he was 
covered Mr A was entitled to believe that this was so. He was entitled to understand 
that he had done all he needed to with regard to disclosing his health conditions.
Putting things right
For the reasons given I dont find that CIDRA applies, and it follows that AWP cannot 
proportionally settle this claim. It must therefore settle the claim up to the relevant policy 
limits.
AWP should add simple interest to the additional sum due at the annual rate of 8% from the 
date of the claim until settlement.
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA must settle Mr A and 
Mr Gs claim as set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman