DRN-3772038
The complaint
A company I will refer to as R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
declined its claim for storm damage, under its commercial buildings insurance policy.
What happened
R says that in December 2021, during the named storm Barra, damage was caused to the 
roof of its property. It made a claim to RSA. There was a delay whilst an inspection was 
arranged. A surveyor then attended in mid-January 2022. R says the surveyor was only able 
to carry out a partial inspection. It says the surveyors conclusion of minor damage was 
clearly wrong as repairs cost around £6,000. 
R says the surveyor made incorrect statements about the age of the sheeting used in the 
construction of the roof and the condition of the timbers. It says the building contractor it 
appointed thought the damage was the result of the storm and didnt think the roof timbers 
needed replacing. 
RSA says its surveyor didnt think the claim was consistent with storm damage. The 
surveyor reported that the gable end of the building was closed off with a thin sheet of 
boarding nailed to the roof support timbers. It was thought that the boarding had come away 
from its fixings gradually due to wear and tear over time. The surveyor didnt think this was 
due to the storm. 
R disagreed. It says its building contractor didnt need to replace the timbers, and it was sure 
the damage was caused by the storm. RSA didnt change its view in its response to Rs 
complaint and so the matter was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He was persuaded by RSAs surveyors report that the damage was caused by 
general wear and tear. He thought it had fairly declined the claim based on its policy terms. 
R didnt think this was fair and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Rs complaint. Let me explain.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether damage 
that is claimed for relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
RSA doesnt dispute that storm conditions were experienced at the time of Rs loss. Ive also 
seen weather reports from around this time, which shows storm force winds were recorded. 
Im satisfied there were storm conditions and so I can move on to the second question. 
The damage reported was to boards that formed part of the roof covering at Rs property. 
These had been blown off by the storm force winds. R says the tenants at the property 
regularly entered the roof space and so its confident this damage happened at the time of 
the storm. 
I think roofing boards that have been blown off by strong winds can be considered typical of 
damage caused by a storm. So, the answer to question two is also yes. Again, this point isnt 
disputed by RSA.  
The final point I must be satisfied with, is that the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. Ive read the report RSA obtained from its surveyor to understand why it 
thought the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. The report contains a number of 
photos taken from inside the roof space. This shows the gap where the boards were missing 
as well as showing the roof timbers. I can see R put temporary sheeting in place prior to 
repairs commencing. 
The surveyors photos also show the roof from an external vantage point. I understand the 
surveyor used a camera on a pole to take these images. This is a technique commonly used 
when inspecting difficult to access areas. From these photos I can see the remaining boards 
that are still fixed in place. The surveyor identifies these as potentially containing asbestos. I 
can see that this was confirmed by Rs builder in the schedule of works that was proposed. 
The surveyors report states:
To the external the point of claim is to the sheeted covering which have come away due to 
age related decay, these are nailed into timbers. The roof sheets will require to be 
replacedthe damage is not consistent with storm damage due to the age of the boards, the 
boards have been nailed to the timbers and have come away due to the [sic] age.
I can see from the photos that the roof appears to be of some age. There are some close-up 
photos that show the section of timber frame to which the missing boarding was attached. I 
think the surveyors view is reasonable that this area of timber is showing signs of 
deterioration. 
Ive read an email from RSA in which it responded to Rs concerns about the decline of its 
claim. This was sent in March 2022. It says, the roof sheets are approximately 70 years old 
and the timber shows signs of decayOnce the timber starts [to] decay then the nail fixings 
become loose and this is often highlighted during periods of high wind speeds.  
Ive also read the letters R received from the building contractor it appointed. In its February 
2022 letter the contractor says the damage to the gable end of the roof was caused by storm 
Barra. It concludes the repairs should be covered by Rs insurance policy. In its March letter 
the contractor reiterates the roof sheets were damaged by storm Barra and disputes that the 
timbers were decayed. The contractor says there was no need to replace studwork and it 
thinks the sheets were more like 50 years old as confirmed by the asbestos removers. 
Having considered all of this information, Im more persuaded by RSAs view that the underlying cause of the damage was the gradual deterioration of the timbers, which resulted 
in the fixings coming loose. I dont disagree that it was the storm force wind that blew the 
boarding off the roof. But a well-maintained roof, in good condition should be able to 
withstand the storm force winds experienced in December 2021. I think RSAs view is 
reasonable that the strong winds highlighted the deteriorated condition of the roof. This was 
the underlying cause of the damage, not the storm.  
I acknowledge Rs comment about the difference in the estimated age of the asbestos 
sheets. But I dont think this is of significance to the decline decision. I also note Rs 
comments that its contractor didnt consider the timbers needed replacing. But based on the 
surveyors comments and photos, Im satisfied that RSAs decline decision was fair. This is 
because the underlying cause of the damage was most likely due to wear and tear over 
time, not the storm.     
I realise my decision will be disappointing for R, but I dont think RSA behaved unfairly when 
declining its claim for storm damage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman