DRN-2012716
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to meet his requests for documents 
in an accessible format.
What happened
Mr S took out an insurance policy with UKI in September 2019. At this time he requested all 
documents to be sent to him in print that was font size 20 or above and on a yellow 
background. This was due to a condition that makes it difficult for him to read print when it 
isnt in this format.
At the start of 2020 he called UKI to complain, as he hadnt received his policy documents. 
UKI looked into his complaint and said they had been sent in October 2019. However it 
arranged for them to be sent again. 
In February 2020 the policy documents arrived. However they werent in large enough print, 
as Mr S had requested. He made a further complaint to UKI.
UKI upheld his complaint and apologised for the error. It maintained that the documents 
were sent in October 2019. However, when requesting the text size from its printers, its 
agent had asked just for large print and not for the specific font size Mr S had requested. It 
offered Mr S £50 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience this had 
caused him.
Mr S wasnt happy with this as he didnt think the compensation was enough to make up for 
the distress he had been caused. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
said that although it wasnt clear if the first documents were sent, even if they had been 
received initially, they would have been in the wrong format, as the text would haven too 
small. He recommended UKI increase the compensation to £150 to make up for the distress 
caused.
UKI didnt agree with this so it has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is unhappy that he didnt receive the documents when he first took out insurance. And 
that when he did receive them, they werent in the format he requested. 
UKI has accepted it made a mistake in not requesting the correct text size. And has offered 
compensation to make up for this. I need to decide if this is enough to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr S.UKI has said that the original set of documents were requested to be sent out with its agent, 
which is the usual process. So it doesnt accept it made an error here. Mr S didnt receive 
these documents. It isnt possible to be certain what happened here. However, since this 
time UKI has accepted that it didnt request the specific font size Mr S specified. So even if 
the documents had been received they would have been incorrect. So regardless of whether 
the documents were sent, Mr S would always have had to contact UKI for new documents.
When Mr S did receive the documents, four months later, they werent in a suitable format 
for him to read. So he had to contact UKI again.
UKI has said that the fact Mr S waited four months to contact them about the missing 
documents, caused a further delay. I agree that this did have an impact. However Mr S 
would reasonably expect that the documents would be sent straight away. And, as he had 
been clear about his requirements, expect them to be in the right format. He therefore 
shouldnt have had to contact UKI at all. I therefore think that the fact that correct documents 
were not sent to the first five months is due to UKIs error and not the fault of  Mr S. 
I have considered the impact of this on Mr S. When he took out the insurance he was very 
clear about his requirements for documentation. However five months after the policy 
started, he was still without a copy of the documents that were suitable for his needs. This 
would have been distressing for Mr S, as during this time he had insurance cover, but wasnt 
able to read the documentation to understand the cover fully. Further, as UKI failed to meet 
his needs, he had to contact it on a number of occasions. Which would have been 
inconvenient.
Mr S has explained that when he receives post that isnt in the suitable format, he has to ask 
for help from friends to read the post to him. This is why he is always clear about his 
requirements. This means receiving the post from UKI would have caused him additional 
distress and inconvenience as he would have to make this arrangement.
Based on this I agree with our investigator that £50 isnt sufficient compensation to make up 
for the distress and inconvenience UKI has caused Mr S. I therefore will require UKI to pay 
an additional £100 to bring the total to £150.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £150 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. This should be 
paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr S has accepted my final decision. If U K 
Insurance Limited pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman