DRN-4229093
The complaint
Mr W complains about issues with a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement 
with CA AUTO FINANCE LTD trading as FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA).He would 
like to reject the car and be compensated for the inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr W took out an agreement for an eight-year-old car with around 40,000 miles on 
the clock. He might reasonably have expected more wear, tear, and repair issues 
with a used car than , for example, with a new one. Having said that we do expect 
cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale.
I dont think there is any dispute that there were some issues with the car which were 
repaired around a month after Mr W got it. Or that Mr W agreed to repairs to the  
back wheels, clutch, the car vibrating when pulling off and a missing wheel locking 
nut. Ive seen emails between the business and Mr W where options are explained to 
him, and he opts to accept repairs.
As I understand it whilst the repairs were being carried out a fault was found with the 
EGT requiring a new sensor. Mr W says he didnt agree to this repair. But I have no 
evidence of this . I have listened to two phone calls between the business and Mr W. 
Its clear Mr W is understandably frustrated at another issue but at no point does he 
say during these calls he wants to reject the car. I also think that even if he had, it 
wouldnt have been a reasonable request given I think a fault with the ECT sensor 
falls under wear and tear. I think the business acted appropriately in resolving this 
issue when it was discovered.
Mr W has since told us he has had further problems and he feels the initial repairs 
werent successful. The only independent evidence he has provided is a roadside 
recovery report which only notes a flat battery.  Again, its unfortunate this issue 
arose but batteries fall under wear and tear and are not reasons to allow rejection.
The business, in my view , correctly  advised Mr W that if he felt the initial repairs had 
failed he would need to get the car booked in for further inspection. I understand Mr 
W has disposed of the car so unfortunately has lost the opportunity to do this. But 
without independent evidence that either the initial repairs failed or that other issues 
have arisen that have been identified as point of sale issues I cant reasonably 
uphold Mr Ws complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman