DRN-3903964
The complaint
Miss P is complaining that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined her indemnity 
claim under the direct debit guarantee.
What happened
Miss P has a current account with NatWest. She contacted NatWest to make an indemnity 
claim under the direct debit guarantee for payments shed been making to a water supplier 
between 5 June 2019 and 7 June 2021.
NatWest declined Miss Ps indemnity claim. They said it was a service issue rather than a 
payment error and so it didnt fall under the direct debit guarantee. They directed her to the 
water supplier to take up the matter with them. 
Miss P made a complaint and when NatWest was unable to resolve it, she brought it to us.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. He said that Miss Ps reason for the claim 
was a dispute with the water supplier rather than a payment error and so wasnt covered by 
the direct debit guarantee. He also noted that there was a delay in NatWest paying out on an 
indemnity claim Miss P had in relation to a payment to another third party by around six 
weeks, but he thought the £50 in compensation NatWest had already paid to her for this was 
fair. 
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators findings about the payment to the water supplier. 
So her complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
I asked NatWest to provide the call they had with Miss P when shed made the claim. In the 
call Miss P confirmed that the water supplier in question does supply her water. She 
mentioned that the reason for her claim was that she had asked for a copy of her contract 
with the water supplier, but they hadnt given it to her. She also explained that she thought 
the water wasnt drinkable, but this wasnt her main concern.
After listening to the call, I contacted Miss P informally about its contents and asked for her 
comments. I also explained that I didnt think she was disputing that the £50 NatWest had 
paid in relation to the delay with the separate claim was fair, but to let me know if this wasnt 
the case.
Miss P replied to say (to summarise in brief) that the water suppliers were taking payments 
from customers fraudulently as they didnt own the water supply, they were just a billing 
agent. She said this is why the water supplier hasnt shown her a contract. She said the 
banks are aware of this fraud and are trying to avoid paying customers back. She thinks she 
is entitled to an immediate refund under the direct debit guarantee without giving a reason 
for why shes making the claim.
Miss P asked me to proceed to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Taking into account what Miss P has said to NatWest, and to us, about her dispute with the 
water supplier, I don't think NatWest have treated her unfairly in declining to refund the 
payments under the direct debit guarantee. 
The direct debit guarantee isnt designed to deal with contractual disputes between a 
customer and the originator of a direct debit. Its there to provide a customer with a full and 
immediate refund where an error is made in the payment of a direct debit by the originator, 
or the bank or building society. And a business can ask for more information to establish if 
there has been a payment error before making a refund under the direct debit guarantee.
From what Miss Ps told us, she doesnt dispute that she set up an account with the water 
supplier. Shes confirmed that she filled in a direct debit form and shes been making 
payments to the water supplier for a number of years. Miss Ps argument is that her historic 
payments have been made in error because she doesnt have a contract with the water 
supplier and they havent shown her she has one.
The payment errors the direct debit guarantee generally refer to are where (for example) the 
payment date, amount or frequency has changed without a customer being told, or a 
payment has been set up in error or without the customers permission. This isnt the 
situation here. The dispute and the reason for the claim is about whether Miss P has a 
contract with the water supplier.
I dont agree with Miss P that her claim is the result of a payment error which is covered by 
the direct debit guarantee. I think that this is a contractual dispute  which isnt covered 
under the direct debit guarantee. So I dont think NatWest were obliged to give Miss P an 
immediate refund under the direct debit guarantee when she contacted them about this 
giving the reasons for the claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss P, but I dont think NatWest need to do anything else here.
For completeness, I agree with the investigator that the £50 NatWest have already paid for 
the delay in processing Miss Ps other indemnity claim is fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman