DRN-2006445
The complaint
Ms D says Indigo Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC) irresponsibly lent to 
her. She also said she received poor customer service and she was left embarrassed after 
her card was declined following SNC taking a payment that she wasnt expecting. 
What happened
Ms D was given a SafetyNet facility in December 2019. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. 
It seems the credit limit given to Ms D in December 2019 was around £300 and based on the 
information given to us by SNC it seems her account has been repaid in full. 
SNC reviewed Ms Ds complaint and issued its final response letter (FRL) in March 2020. It 
upheld her complaint. It refunded the interest that Ms D had paid, added 8% and then used 
this refund to reduce the balance she had at the time. Ms D accepted this offer.
She then brought her complaint to this service. At this point she said the offer SNC had 
made hadnt gone far enough. She said SNC hadnt compensated her for the poor customer 
service and for the embarrassment caused when her card was declined as a result of SNC 
taking a payment from her account, that she wasnt expecting. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ds complaint and he didnt think any further 
compensation was warranted. He said any repayments taken by SNC were made in line with 
the terms and conditions of the facility and there wasnt sufficient information to show that 
Ms D had received poor customer service. 
Ms D didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. She said she was on maternity leave and 
SNC didnt do enough to help. She also provided us copies of some emails between herself 
and a debt advice service.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I want to be clear that, like the adjudicator I wont be considering what sort of checks SNC 
carried out before the facility was granted and whether the decision to grant the facility was 
correct. This is because SNC upheld this part of the complaint and made an offer that Ms D 
accepted. 
However, Ms D says she doesnt think this offer went far enough. So, to be clear, I make no 
finding or comment on what SNC did or didnt do leading up to the facility being approved. 
Instead this decision will focus on the customer service and what happened when Ms D said 
her card was declined. 
I think it is important to note that, Ms D was given an open-ended credit facility  rather than 
a payday loan whereby a pre-agreed amount it taken on a specified date. Ms D didnt need 
to repay all of what she borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. Instead, 
there was an expectation that shed repay what she had borrowed plus the interest due 
within a reasonable period of time. 
Declined card transaction
Ms D hasnt provided details of when the declined card transaction took place but Ms D has 
told us she was in a shop and her card was declined. Ms D says this happened because she 
had expected there to be funds in her account. However, SNC had taken a repayment 
towards the facility meaning those funds were no longer available. 
As Ive said above, Ms D wasnt given a payday loan  but an open-ended credit facility and 
in order to see whether SNC did anything wrong when it took the repayment, Ive considered 
the terms and conditions of the facility and what they say about how and when repayments 
will be made. I dont consider this to be unreasonable, after all its entirely reasonable for 
both Ms D and SNC to rely on the terms and conditions of the facility. 
Given, our experience of working SNC cases it is likely the terms and conditions contained 
provisions similar to what Ive outlined below;
while ever you owe us money under this Agreement and we have a connection to your real 
time banking data, unless we agree to the contrary, we may take a repayment each time we 
see money coming into your bank account under the following conditions:
We will only ever take a repayment when your Bank Balance is higher than your 
SafetyNet Level.
We will never take a repayment which reduces your balance to the SafetyNet Level 
and therefore triggers a Credit Instalment. To make sure this is the case whenever 
we take a repayment we will always leave you a balance which is at least £30 above 
your SafetyNet Level.
Subject to the above, the repayment amount will be the full amount you owe us in 
outstanding capital and interest whilst leaving you a Bank Balance which is at least 
£30 above your SafetyNet Level or such lesser amount as will leave you a Bank 
Balance at least £30 above your SafetyNet Level.
The minimum amount of money being paid into your bank account which will trigger 
are payment to us is £50, unless the balance you owe us is less than £50, in which 
case we may take the full amount owed on a lesser amount being paid into your bank 
account subject to the application of the above rules.
In addition to the above, we know that SNC used a continuous payment authority (payment 
taken using the card number that was provided) that wouldve likely been agreed when the 
facility was granted.  This states:
When you enter into this Agreement you provide us with a continuous payment
authority (CPA) so that we can collect repayments automatically from your bank account 
when we see your Bank Balance increase, in accordance with the terms of the Agreement, using the debit card you nominate for this purpose. By signing this Agreement you are 
consenting to the use of CPA.
Although, as Ive said, I dont know what date this incident took place, I havent seen any 
evidence to make me think SNC didnt comply with the terms and conditions of the facility. 
And as this facility wasnt a payday loan or a product that offered a regular repayment date, I 
dont think it was wrong of SNC to take a repayment when sufficient funds were in the 
account. The fact, that the payment was taken on a day that Ms D wasnt expected is likely 
because funds must have been deposited which triggered a payment from SNC. 
So SNC taking a payment when there were funds in the account is not an error and is 
indeed line with the way the facility was designed to work. As such, I dont doubt that Ms D 
was embarrassed as a result of her card being declined, but I cant say that was caused by 
an error on the part of SNC.  
Poor customer service
I appreciate that Ms D didnt believe at the time that SNC offer was sufficient but that isnt 
the subject of this complaint. I also accept what Ms D says that she was (and still may be) on 
maternity leave and on a lower salary. However, SNC has also already upheld the complaint 
about the facility  so that on its on wouldnt be sufficient for me to say that SNC has 
provided poor service.
Instead, Ive considered whether there is evidence of poor customer service from the contact 
notes that SNC has provided. Ms D says that SNC didnt do enough to help her. I dont have 
any general or specific examples of poor service given to Ms D but as Ive said, Ive 
reviewed the communication between Ms D and SNC. 
The communication log that SNC has provided starts from 1 March 2020 which is when 
Ms D made her complaint. SNC responded within 24 hours confirming the complaint had 
been logged and its final response will be issued within 8 weeks. This is the maximum time 
allowed for financial businesses to respond to a complaint. In this case, I can see that SNC 
provided its response to Ms D complaint after 11 days. 
So SNC issued its FRL well within the eight weeks allowed to them by the regulator  as 
such, I cant say that this, in of itself, is evidence of poor customer service. 
Ms D has also provided us an email chain between herself and a debt advice service. This 
appears to have between Ms D and the service in trying to establish a budget plan and to 
work our Ms Ds monthly liabilities. The email chain Ms B has provided is from the end of 
February 2020. But what isnt evident in the emails is whether at this point SNC was aware 
of what was happening with Ms Ds financial position. 
Indeed, the earliest I can say they were aware was on the date that Ms D raised her 
complaint on 1 March 2020. But even as part of that complaint, there was no reference of a 
debt service. 
Given everything Ive seen, I cant say that SNC provided poor service to Ms D and I make 
no award for compensation. I appreciate that Ms D will be disappointed, but Id like to 
reassure her that Ive thought about all the evidence that has been provided.   
My final decisionMy final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman