DRN-2394623
The complaint
Miss H complains that TSB Bank plc has declined her claim brought under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. She wants a refund of the purchase price and repair costs to a 
vehicle. 
What happened
Miss H tells us that she bought the vehicle in June 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as L.
She explains that she paid £4,995 in two transactions using her TSB credit card. Miss H 
states that the vehicle broke down in May 2019. And that repair costs came to over £1,300.
This included the head gasket and later the thermostat being replaced. She believes the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. And shes provided details of the work 
done and an independent report regarding the vehicles condition.
TSB said that there was no information to show the issues which led to the breakdown were 
present at the point of sale.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He found there was 
insufficient information to show the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that this vehicle hasnt performed as well as Miss H might have wished. But theres 
always a greater chance that things might go wrong with used, high mileage vehicles. And 
the vehicle here was over seven years old when supplied to Miss H. It passed an MOT on 22 
June 2018 without advisories with an odometer reading of 131,967 miles.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Hs complaint. I have to 
take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) states that in order to conform to contract goods must 
be of satisfactory quality. This is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider 
to be satisfactory. And would include aspects of price, previous use and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. Here the vehicle breakdown 
came around 11 months after Miss H bought it.
For TSB to be liable it would have to be shown that the faults which needed to be repaired 
were present at the point of supply. And I dont think that the information provided is 
sufficient to show this.
Theres an invoice from a business Ill refer to as HM for a head gasket replacement. The 
repairs were carried out in June 2019. But this doesnt show when that issue first developed 
or what brought it about.
Ive also seen a brief report from a business Ill call MA. This is unsigned, undated and 
states that oil was leaking into the water system. And that this shouldve been noticed at the 
pre-sale service. But it doesnt explain how  if this were so - the vehicle was able to operate 
until May 2019. And cover several thousand miles in that time. 
Im aware that information provided by L to TSB about the pre-sale service and warranty 
didnt coincide with the invoice. But I dont find this makes any material difference. Even with 
a six month warranty it would have expired by May 2019. 
And whilst I understand Miss Hs view, I cant say that the type of pre-sale service or 
inspection is likely to have affected the eventual breakdown. There would be an expectation 
that in the several months after supply and prior to the breakdown, the vehicle wouldve 
been maintained. And if the oil was leaking to the extent implied by MAs report this would 
almost certainly have been evident by the amount needed to top up what had seemingly 
been lost by the seepage.
I think the most probable explanation is that after 140,000 miles the vehicle was simply 
showing increasing signs of wear and tear.
In summary, I dont find that TSB did anything wrong in declining Miss Hs section 75 claim. 
There is, in my opinion, insufficient information to show that the vehicle was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Or that there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation for which it would be equally liable. Accordingly, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman