DRN-3594637
The complaint
Ms R (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) irresponsibly
provided her with loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ms R was advanced three home collected loans between August 2018 and
February 2019. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date term of loan 
(weeks)total weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 13/08/2018 13/02/2019 33 £20.00
2 £400.00 13/02/2019 22/08/2019 33 £20.00
3 £500.00 13/02/2019 22/08/2019 33 £45.00
Following Ms Rs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold it because it had carried out proportionate checks before these loans were
advanced.
Ms Rs representative didnt accept the outcome and instead referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator and it was partly upheld. He thought it was
fair for Morses to have granted loans 1 and 2. However, he concluded loan 3 shouldnt have
been advanced because Ms Rs total weekly repayment to Morses represented a significant
portion of her declared income.
Ms Rs representative responded but didnt provide any new comments on the proposed
outcome, instead it provided a copy of Ms Rs full credit file which was generated in
December 2021.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators decision to uphold loan 3. In summary it said:
Ms Rs declared income figure for loan 3 was verified with the credit reference
agencies.
A total of 14.2% of Ms Rs uncommitted and available income was due to be used to
repay both loans 2 and 3.
These loans were repaid without any undue difficulty and these loans were actually
settled early.
Ms R never made Morses aware of any financial difficulties which she may have
been having.
Morses consider it appropriate to lend to a consumer who can show that loans are
both affordable and sustainable.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve and I 
issued a provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision, I explained the reasons why I was not intending to uphold Ms Rs 
complaint. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and form part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms R could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Rs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors include:
Ms R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms R.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms R was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Rs complaint.Loan 1
As part of its affordability checks Morses asked Ms R about her weekly income and
expenditure. She declared to Morses she had a weekly income of £229.20 with outgoings of
£52. Based solely, on the income and expenditure it was reasonable for Morses to have
believed that Ms R would be able to afford the weekly repayment of £20.
It was still quite early on the lending relationship which means, in my view, Morses could rely
on the information Ms R had provided.
Morses also carried out a credit check before this loan was approved and Ive considered
the results that it has provided. Having reviewed these results, while there is some adverse
information such as defaults. However, the most recent default was recorded around two
years before the loan was applied for. Which in my view, is too far away from this loan
application to make Morses think Ms R was having current financial difficulties.
So, I think, there wasnt anything in my view wouldve led it to either decline the
application or prompt it to carry out further checks such as to verify any of the information
Ms R had provided.
I think the checks that Morses did were proportionate and it didnt need to do any further
checks before agreeing to these loans.
Im therefore not upholding Ms Rs complaint about this loan.
Loans 2 and 3
These loans were approved on the same day that loan 1 was repaid and based on the
repayment history Ms R didnt have any problems repaying her first loan.
It is, in my view, peculiar for Morses to have approved two loans on the same day, for the
same term. To me this doesnt make any sense to have approved two loans when it couldve
just provided Ms R with a loan of £900 rather than one of £400 and one of £500.
As these loans were taken out on the same day when thinking about what happened, in the
circumstances of this case, Ill consider these loans as one i.e. a loan on the same day of
£900 rather than two separate loans.
The effect of these two loans was that Ms Rs weekly repayments had more than doubled
from £20 to £45 per week which is why our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He concluded
that after loan 3 was granted Ms R was committed to repaying too higher portion of her
income towards loan repayments.
I can quite understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses
wouldve concluded loan 3 was unsustainable. I accept, that Ms R was now having to pay
Morses close to 20% of her declared income each week, for the next seven months  which
isnt an insignificant commitment.
But there wasnt anything in the way that Ms R repaid loan 1 that wouldve given Morses
cause for concern and based on Ms R declared weekly income of £235 and outgoings of
£60 per week. Morses may have believed both of these loans were affordable.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morse wouldve or ought to have realised that
this loan was unsustainable for Ms R, but that doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done
before advancing this loan.But unlike the adjudicator, I dont think the portion of income on its own is sufficient to say
the case should be upheld, but I do think this is a factor in deciding whether a proportionate
check had been carried out for these two loans.
For these two loans I dont think a proportionate check had been carried out. I do think the
large increase in weekly repayment as well as the significant increase in capital borrowing
ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about Ms Rs financial
position.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Rs actual financial position to
ensure loans 2 and 3 were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as
asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Rs credit
report.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Rs general financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Ms R couldnt afford them.
Ms Rs representative has provided a copy of her credit report which was generated in
December 2021. So, there will be information contained within the report that covers the
period of time around when loans 2 and 3 were granted.
Ive considered the credit report to see whether had Morses looked into Ms Rs finances in
more detail it wouldve concluded these loans werent affordable for her. Looking at the
credit report I can see there two defaults showing. However, one was recorded 18 months
after these loans were approved and so was unlikely to be in arrears at the point of lending.
The other default was recorded in July 2016 for £944  based on the record the credit
account had been sold to a third-party collection agency. However, as this was nearly three
years before the loan was granted, I dont think Morses wouldve considered this to be
problematic because there arent any other signs of financial difficulties within the credit
report that has been provided. For example, there is no indication that Ms R was a regular
user of home credit or other forms of high cost credit.
Based on the information Ive been given to date, had Morses done further checks, such as
looking at Ms Rs full credit report, it wouldve likely concluded the loan was affordable and
sustainable for her.
So, without any further information from Ms R about her other living costs which arent visible
on the credit report that I have been provided, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses
wouldve likely seen had it made better checks.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that these loans were unaffordable for Ms R.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loans 2 and 3. Even considering what Ms R declared to Morses
for her income and expenditure. Im therefore intending to conclude it was reasonable for
Morses to have provided these loans.
Response to the provisional decisionBoth Ms R (and her representative) as well as Morses were asked to respond to the 
provisional decision and provide any further information, comment or evidence for 
consideration as soon as possible but no later than 13 July 2022. 
However, neither Ms R (or her representative) as well as Morses responded to the 
provisional decision.  
The deadline for responses has now passed, given this, I dont think it is unreasonable to 
proceed to issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for my consideration, I see no response to 
depart from the findings that I made in the provisional decision. 
I still think Morses may a reasonable decision to provide Ms R with loan one. For loans two 
and three I think, given what Morses was aware off, it ought to have carried out further 
checks to satisfy itself Ms R could afford these loan repayments in a sustainable manner.  
However, the credit report provided by Ms Rs representative didnt show any signs of 
financial distress or difficulties  and so as I can see, based on the evidence provided 
Morses also made a reasonable decision to provide loans two and three. 
Overall, I still think Morses made a reasonable decision to provide these loans.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman