DRN-2837719
The complaint
Mr R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) (VWFS) mis sold him a Hire 
Purchase Agreement leading him to believe the first three months payments would be free . 
He would like a refund of the  three payments and compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
I do appreciate Mr Rs understanding of the car advertisement was that VWFS would 
pay the first three months payments for him.  I could understand why, at first glance, 
he might have thought that.
Ive seen an email from the dealership dated 8 July 2020 apologising  for giving 
wrong  information although it doesnt specifically refer to the three-month deal. Mr R  
also referred to a phone call which unfortunately is no longer available to listen to. 
But from the email it does seem Mr R was initially given some wrong information
However, Mr R queried the terms of the agreement as soon as he received the 
agreement to sign on 21 July 2020 as it specified a three-month payment holiday not 
an amount VWFS would pay to cover the first three months payments. In subsequent 
emails VWFS made it clear the agreement was, as detailed on  21 July 2020 .But it 
offered to refund Mr Rs deposit if he didnt want to go ahead. So, its clear to me Mr 
R chose to go ahead and accept the agreement on the terms VWFS offered.
I appreciate Mr R feels he could have got  a better rate of interest elsewhere. I am 
not sure why he didnt do this when he realised VWFS offer wasnt what he thought. I 
dont feel I have any evidence that  undue pressure was put on Mr R  particularly as 
VWFS  offered the opportunity not to go ahead and to get a refund of his deposit.
I cant agree VWFS mis sold the agreement to Mr R as it clarified the agreement prior 
to him signing it and gave him the opportunity to not proceed with the agreement. So, 
on that basis I cant reasonably ask VWFS to refund the first three payments or to 
pay compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman