DRN-3325932
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money shes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Miss T has fallen victim to a purchase scam. 
On 2 January 2021, Miss T sent £240 via faster payment to buy a pair of trainers from a 
seller she had found on a popular social media platform. She says that the sellers social 
media account seemed legitimate and shed seen positive reviews. The trainers she 
purchased were normally priced at around £180-£190, but she was happy to pay more on 
this occasion because prices were increasing due to limited stock.
When Miss T didnt receive the trainers within a reasonable timeframe, she reported the 
matter to Monzo. Monzo contacted the receiving bank the day after Miss T got in touch with 
it, but no funds remained in the beneficiary account. And Monzo declined to reimburse 
Miss T under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code) because it said that she didnt take enough steps to check who she was paying and 
what for.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator found that Monzo should have reimbursed Miss T under the provisions of 
the CRM Code. He didnt think that Monzo had given Miss T an effective warning during the 
payment journey and he didnt feel that Monzo had been able to establish that Miss T had no 
reasonable basis for belief when she made the payment.
Monzo didnt agree. It said that it hasnt cited giving Miss T an effective warning as a reason 
not to reimburse her. But it doesnt think she had a reasonable basis for belief because, it 
says:
The deal was too good to be true. The retailer originally sold the trainers Miss T was 
attempting to purchase for around £225, but theyve been out of stock on the 
retailers website for some time. The retailer is currently selling a more recent style 
for around £220. But the trainers Miss T wanted to buy are a rarer style that are no 
longer being produced. If she had paid for the same trainers on a trusted online 
marketplace, its likely she would have paid around £329 for them. 
The seller offering items to purchase for much less than their retail value or the 
average price on trusted online marketplaces shouldve raised red flags about the 
legitimacy of the items and/or the seller.
The availability of a no questions asked model and size of a limited stock item should 
have been concerning.
Social media is not a sales platform and is commonly used to sell stolen/illegal 
goods. A genuine seller of high-end products would not use social media.
It accepts that Miss T saw pictures of the trainers but thats no guarantee that a 
person owns them and has them available for sale.
Miss T trusted the seller because of reviews on their social media account and did 
not attempt to independently verify the seller.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo isnt yet a signatory of the CRM Code, but its allowed us to apply the Codes 
principles to complaints we consider against it which meet the relevant criteria.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss T says shes fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo has argued that one of the exceptions 
applies in this case. It says that Miss T made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
belief that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine 
goods or services and/or the business or person she was transacting with was legitimate.
Monzo has been clear in stating that it doesnt wish to argue that Miss T ignored an effective 
warning that it gave during the payment journey. So, I wont address this in any detail. But 
for the sake of completeness, Ive looked at the warnings Monzo gave and Im not satisfied it 
can reasonably be said that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met. 
I dont think the warnings were impactful or specific enough.
In thinking about whether Miss T had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what 
steps she took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the transaction, and whether it was 
reasonable for her to proceed with the payment.
Monzo has pointed to some extra steps it says Miss T couldve taken to protect herself, and 
its said that some features of the scam shouldve rung alarm bells for Miss T. I appreciate 
that theres more Miss T couldve done to protect herself here  for example, she doesnt 
appear to have attempted to pay for the trainers via a more secure method than bank 
transfer. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied overall that she had a reasonable basis for 
belief on this occasion. I say this because:
I dont agree that genuine sales arent conducted on social media platforms in recent 
times, and I dont think this should necessarily have been a red flag to Miss T.
Miss T has said she relied on positive reviews on the sellers social media account to 
verify the seller and I dont think this is unreasonable or uncommon in the 
circumstances. Often, this is one of the only real ways to check the authenticity of 
sellers on social media platforms and online marketplaces.
I can see that Miss T was shown pictures of the item she wished to purchase, in the 
sellers possession. Of course, as Monzo has said, this could have been a stolen 
image. But in light of the surrounding circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Miss T to believe that it wasnt.
I dont agree that the price of the trainers was so low that it was too good to be true 
and shouldve put Miss T on guard. She paid more for the trainers than she wouldve 
done if shed bought them from the retailer when they were in stock, and she paid 
around 80% of the price shed have paid for the trainers if shed bought them using 
the online marketplace Monzo has referred to.
I can see from the evidence that Miss T received a confirmation of payee match 
during the payment journey, which would have undoubtedly reassured her that she 
was paying the person she was expecting to pay.Miss T did take some steps in an attempt to protect herself. She asked the seller if 
she was able to pay an initial deposit, rather than the full price straight away. But she 
was ultimately told this wasnt an option.
I can see that Miss T continued to talk to the seller about buying other items after she 
had paid for the trainers. It seems to me that she genuinely believed she was 
transacting with a legitimate seller. I dont think she would have considered doing 
further business with them if shed believed otherwise.
Overall, I dont think its unreasonable that the scam went undetected by Miss T.
To conclude, Im persuaded that Monzo should have reimbursed the money Miss T lost to 
this scam under the terms of the CRM Code. Im not satisfied that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse Miss Ts loss within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Miss T should have received a full 
refund under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman