DRN-2965173
The complaint
Mr H complains about adverse information recorded on his credit file by Santander UK Plc. 
Mr H also complains that Santander reduced the credit limit on his credit card. 
  
What happened
Last year, Mr H found a default recorded on his credit file by Santander. Mr H has told us he 
was attempting a property purchase at the time. Mr H contacted Santander but it was initially 
unable to find anything that showed it was reporting a default on his credit file. Santander 
asked Mr H to provide a full copy of his credit report to help investigate what had happened. 
Mr H also complained to Santander about its decision to reduce the credit limit on his credit 
card. Santander issued a final response but said it had taken the decision to reduce Mr Hs 
credit limit in line with its lending criteria. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was looked at by an investigator. Mr H 
forwarded a screen shot of the disputed entry to the investigator and advised a dispute had 
been raised by the credit reference agency when he found the entry. 
The investigator forwarded a copy of the credit file entry to Santander. It advised that whilst 
the name matched, the date of birth and address werent the same as its customer. The 
investigator also contacted the credit reference agency in question and it forwarded 
evidence a dispute was raised and forwarded to Santander after Mr H discovered the entry. 
The dispute showed Santander had declined to remove the entry from Mr Hs credit file. 
During the investigation, Santander agreed to take steps to remove the entry from Mr Hs 
credit file. Mr H later said the entry remained on his credit file.
The investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint in part. They said that without sight of Mr Hs full 
credit report it wasnt possible to say what the impact of the disputed entry was. The 
investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by reducing Mr Hs credit limit. But they 
thought Santander couldve done more to help Mr H when he tried to find out about the 
disputed entry and awarded £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Santander accepted the investigators view but Mr H asked to appeal. As a result his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. When the case was initially passed to 
me I asked the investigator to request a copy of Mr Hs full credit report to verify whether the 
entry remained in place and show the impact it had caused. We didnt hear back from Mr H. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a screenshot of the disputed entry. Santander says it contains the same 
name but a different address and date of birth. Based on the limited information available, I 
think its likely another persons entry was shown on Mr Hs credit file. Santander and Mr H 
both agree he didnt open the account in question. Its unclear whether this was as a result of 
Santanders actions or not. 
Earlier this year, Santander says it took steps to remove the entry. Mr H later told us that the 
entry remained on his credit file. When the case was passed to me, I asked Mr H to confirm 
the entry remained, even if he was unwilling to provide a full copy of his credit report. But we 
havent received a response from Mr H. Santander says the entry in question has been 
deleted. Based on the available information, Im satisfied it took the necessary steps to do 
that. 
Mr H said the entry meant he wasnt able to proceed with a mortgage application. Our 
investigator asked for something from Mr Hs mortgage advisor to held demonstrate that. But 
we didnt receive the information requested. And without sight of a full copy of Mr Hs credit 
report, Im unable to say what factors may or may not have impacted a mortgage application. 
Our investigator thought Santander couldve done more after the credit reference agency 
raised a dispute. As a result, Santander agreed to pay Mr H £100 in recognition of the 
trouble and upset caused. I agree with the investigator that Santander couldve done more 
but Im satisfied the £100 offer fairly reflects the impact of the delay on Mr H. 
Santander said it took various factors into account before reducing Mr Hs credit limit, 
including his credit file. But as I havent been able to see Mr Hs credit file, I cant say 
whether its decision was unfair or not. 
I agree Santander couldve done more to help when the credit reference agency contacted it 
with the dispute Mr H raised. Based on the information available, Im satisfied the £100 
settlement Santander has agreed to pay is a reasonable way to resolve Mr Hs complaint 
and fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to him. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr H £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman