DRN-2043205
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc refused to accept a settlement offer on her
account. She also raised a number of points of complaint about how Capital One was
managing her account at that time.
What happened
Mrs C said shed offered Capital One a partial settlement for her debt, but it refused. She
was told that Capital One didnt accept partial settlements unless the account was in arrears.
So she let her account go into arrears, but her offer was still refused. She said Capital One
had refused to give a reason for this.
She said she complained, asking someone to help her with that, but Capital One still
wouldnt do anything. It had given her a three month payment break, and told her that
wouldnt be recorded on her credit file, but it was. She said Capital One had assumed she
was in financial difficulties but shes not. She said that she was blocked from using the online
account and app, and never got statements.
Mrs C said shed now found out that Capital One had reported a default on her credit file.
Capital One said that wouldnt be done until the end of October, but it happened on 9
October 2019. And Capital One kept charging fees, although it had said no fees would be
added. The balance on her debt had gone up. She said shes complained about Capital One
before, and that complaint was upheld.
Mrs C wanted the balance on her account to be written off, her credit file returned to the
position it was in before, and a gesture of goodwill, a minimum of £100.
Capital One didnt think it had done anything wrong. It wouldnt accept Mrs Cs offer of a
partial settlement, but it had moved her account so it was managed by its specialist support
team. It wrote to her to explain the impact of that.
Capital One didnt think it had harassed her by sending texts, that was part of its policy to
keep customers updated. But it had stopped sending these to her once shed expressed
these concerns.
Capital One said that statements had been sent to her address every month, and statements
were activated to be viewed online too. It was sending her the last twelve months of
statements in the post.
Capital One said it wasnt having technical problems with the app. It offered some
suggestions, and told her how to follow up on these issues if she continued to have
difficulties.
Capital One explained how interest and charges work on her account. It didnt think these
had been wrongly applied to her account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Capital One didnt
have to accept Mrs Cs settlement offer. Our service wouldnt interfere with that decision.
She thought Capital One had explained to the representative who called on Mrs Cs behalf,
that her credit file would be affected by the payment plan she entered into. She didnt think
Capital One had given incorrect information about this.
Our investigator noted that Mrs C hadnt been able to use Capital Ones app. She
appreciated this would be frustrating. But Capital One had told Mrs Cs representative that
she could use the website, or call back and it would talk her through any technical problems
she was having. Our investigator thought Capital One had offered a reasonable solution to
the problem Mrs C was having.
Our investigator also said she thought Capital Ones communications to Mrs C had been
professional. Our investigator didnt ask Capital One to do any more.
Mrs C representative didnt agree. He asked, on her behalf, for this complaint to be
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I think theres been some confusion in this case over what can and cant be 
considered here so Ill start by setting out the issues Im looking at.
Mrs C has previously raised a complaint with our service about Capital One. That 
complaint touched on Mrs Cs concerns about security at Capital One. It dealt with 
her first settlement offer, to Capital One, which was refused. And it also looked at 
the debt management letters and request for income and expenditure which were 
sent to Miss C after this.
Because our service has already considered these points, I cant look at them 
again here. But I can look at the second settlement offer Mrs C made, the advice 
she says she was given around this, and the eventual refusal of that offer. I can 
look at Capital Ones decision to have Mrs Cs account managed by a specialist 
team. And I can look at the concerns Mrs C expressed about not being able to 
access her account electronically. So Ill do that now.
When it was considering Mrs Cs first offer, Capital One told Mrs C that if it didnt 
accept the offer she would need to keep paying the minimum payment onto this 
account until the balance was paid off.
After her first settlement offer was refused, Mrs C let her account go into arrears. 
She said she did this because of some advice she was given, that Capital One 
would only consider a settlement if she put herself into arrears.
Ive listened to a call Mr C had with Capital One on behalf of Mrs C. He discussed 
that first settlement offer Mrs C made. Mr C said that he and Mrs C were on 
benefits. Capital One said that Mrs Cs settlement offer couldnt be accepted 
because account payments were up to date. Mr C said then that Mrs C had kept 
up her payments because she didnt want her credit file to be affected. The call 
handler said Capital One would accept an offer if Mrs Cs account had defaulted.
I dont think that Capital One advised Mrs C on this call to allow her account to fall 
into arrears. And I think it was very clear on this call that Mr C, who was 
representing Mrs C, was well aware that allowing the account to fall into arrears 
would affect Mrs Cs credit file.Mrs C then made a new offer of settlement, once her account was in arrears. 
Capital One turned that down too. By this time, a family friend was representing 
Mrs C.
On 16 August 2019, Capital One wrote to Mrs Cs representative, to say it wouldnt 
accept her settlement offer. I dont think that Capital One had to accept this offer. 
Its a business decision for Capital One to make, whether it accepts only part of the 
money that its owed. Our service wont usually interfere with that decision, and I 
dont think we should depart from that usual approach here.
In that letter, Capital One also said that it had put Mrs Cs account on a 
different arrangement with its specialist support team. It had written 
separately about that.
This second letter was also sent on 16 August. That said Capital One had put a 
hold on Mrs Cs account for a short time. It explained that it wouldnt expect her to 
make payments for three months. I know that Mrs C didnt get this letter, but I do 
think it was sent, and to the right address. Her representative said shed been 
having trouble with the post. This letter was addressed in the same way as the 
letter refusing her offer of settlement  to her representative, but at Mrs Cs home 
address.
Mrs C says Capital One had told her it wouldnt be putting markers on her credit 
file while this hold was on her account. But Ive listened to a number of calls Mrs 
Cs representatives had with Capital One. And I dont think she was given this 
reassurance. I also note that the letter sent to her about the payment hold 
explains that if she doesnt make her minimum payments while the hold is on her 
account, then her credit file will be affected.
I dont think its likely that this hold on Mrs Cs account is the main reason she 
started to get markers on her credit file. I think its likely that Capital One had 
already started to report Mrs Cs missed payments to the relevant credit reference 
agencies, when Mrs C stopped paying. Thats what Id usually expect a business to 
do.
Mrs C has told us clearly that she isnt in financial difficulties. But I think it wouldve 
been reasonable, given what Capital One had been told and what had happened, 
for Capital One to have concluded that she was. So I dont think that what Capital 
One did, including putting this hold on her account and recording any late and 
missed payments on Mrs Cs credit file, was an unreasonable response to that. I 
dont think Capital One has to put Mrs Cs credit file back the way it was before she 
stopped making payments to her account.
Mrs C also said that Capital One was applying fees to her account, although it had 
said it wouldnt do that either. I think it had agreed to suspend fees from 16 August, 
until the date of the latest statement generated prior to the date on which the 
arrangement ends. The arrangement is set out to be for three months. But it looks 
like fees and interest were actually suspended for longer than that.
Mrs Cs statement on 25 July included fees. Her statement on 25 August credited 
that back to her, and included no further fees and interest. Her statements for 
September, October, and November include no further fees or interest. I dont think 
that Capital One has charged Mrs C interest and fees when it said it wouldnt.Capital One has said that Mrs C was being sent her statements. She says shes 
never received them. If so, I would expect Mrs C to complain about this, and 
Capital One to take steps to rectify the problem. I understand its sent her the 
preceding 12 months of statements now. I think thats a reasonable response to 
this part of Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C said she felt that texts sent to her were harassing her. Capital One said that it 
would send texts to keep customers up to date on their accounts, but it had now 
stopped sending texts to Mrs C. Again, I think thats a reasonable response to this 
part of Mrs Cs complaint. I dont think that Capital One did anything wrong when it 
sent these texts, but Im pleased to see it then agreed to stop when Mrs C 
expressed concern.
Mrs C also said she wasnt able to access her account online at all. Capital One 
said it didnt know why that might happen. It made some suggestions, and offered 
ways to follow up if she was still having problems. And it said that it could see she 
was able to access the mobile app, because shed logged in relatively recently. 
Again, I think this was a reasonable response to this part of Mrs Cs complaint.
Finally, Mrs C said that her debt was defaulted much earlier than Capital One said it 
would be, at the start of October, not the end. Our service wont usually consider a 
complaint about an issue that a business hasnt already had the opportunity to 
address. And I havent been able to see that Capital One has had the chance to 
consider a complaint from Mrs C on this point yet. So I wont consider this issue 
here. Mrs C can raise that directly with Capital One if she would like to, and hasnt 
done so already.
Ive considered Mrs Cs complaint carefully, and, although I know this will be 
disappointing for her, I dont think it should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman