DRN-1677080
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham 
Midshires and referred to here as BM) has administered his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage 
account. In particular, he is unhappy that Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers were 
appointed. He is also unhappy about BMs communication and customer service and about 
how BM has dealt with his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, this is what happened. Mr F has a mortgage with BM taken out in 2015. The 
mortgage was originally a joint account but after a transfer of equity in 2018 it is now in 
Mr Fs sole name and is now a BTL mortgage. He borrowed £52,000 (plus £555 for fees) 
over a period of 25 years on an interest-only basis.
The events giving rise to the complaint arose in 2019. At that time the property was rented 
out at £450 per month, the rent being paid directly to Mr F. The balance on the account in 
June 2019 was approximately £48,700 (having been reduced from the original amount by a 
lump sum payment made in July 2017) and the monthly interest payment was about £200 
per month.
Unfortunately by early 2019 Mr F was experiencing some personal difficulties. He had 
become homeless and had no income. He was having to use the rent paid by the tenant for 
his living expenses. Arrears began to accrue and in July 2019, LPA Receivers were 
appointed.
On 30 July 2019 Mr F spoke to BM. He provided the bank with his new address and 
explained his difficult personal and financial circumstances. At this point, the account was in 
arrears by about £1,400, or seven months repayments.
Mr F spoke to BM several times after that, unhappy that LPA Receivers had been appointed. 
The collection notes record that Mr F was aware the mortgage hadnt been paid, and he 
explained to BM (and to us) that hed been in extreme financial difficulties and had no other 
source of income but the rent, which hed had to use for his own living expenses.
At the end of August Mr F complained to BM that the LPA Receivers managing agents had 
threatened the tenant. The agents told BM they were happy for the existing tenant to 
remain in the property and for the rent to be used to pay the mortgage and reduce the 
arrears. The gross rent was £450, the net rent £407, leaving a surplus of £205 to go towards 
the mortgage arrears. It was hoped that it would be possible for the property eventually to be 
returned to the control of Mr F. 
The tenant left the property and in September 2019 the LPA Receivers considered selling it. 
(I understand the property has now been handed back to BM, and that it is being marketed 
for sale.)
There were numerous conversations between Mr F and BM about his unhappiness that LPA 
Receivers had been appointed. Mr F escalated his complaint about this and BM issued a 
final response letter, explaining that it was entitled, under the mortgage terms and 
conditions, to appoint Receivers and to add their fees to the mortgage account. Mr F had 
also challenged the validity of the mortgage debt and BM explained that the mortgage 
contract between Mr F and BM was legally binding.
Dissatisfied with BMs response, Mr F contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
October 2019. His complaint, as detailed on his complaint form, reflects what is set out 
above and is about Mr Fs unhappiness at the appointment of the LPA Receivers and the 
cost of this.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was 
sympathetic to Mr Fs financial difficulties but was satisfied the mortgage terms and 
conditions allowed BM to appoint LPA Receivers. The investigator explained that the LPA 
Receivers were Mr Fs agents and so if he had any concerns about them, hed need to take 
it up with the Receivers directly. The investigator also explained that any concerns Mr F had 
about his DSAR would need to be referred to the Information Commissioner.
Mr F responded with further points. He said hed made a lump sum payment of over £4,700 
in July 2017, which meant that his account was 21 months in credit. As a result, Mr F said 
the arrears which led to the appointment of the LPA Receivers were fraudulent. Mr F also 
said that, despite knowing he was homeless, BM had sent out letters to addresses they 
knew he could not have been living at. Mr F had also received the response to his DSAR, 
which he said had uncovered fraud at the bank.
The investigator responded to these points. He noted the lump sum payment in 2017 had 
been used to reduce the capital balance (in line with BMs policy on lump sum payments) 
and that BM had written to Mr F giving new details of the monthly repayment after this had 
occurred. The investigator found nothing in BMs records about this payment being used to 
fund future monthly instalments.
The investigator was also satisfied that the account was in arrears by seven months at the 
time the LPA Receivers were appointed, with the last payment having been made in 
December 2018 and the LPA Receivers appointed in July 2019. The investigator also noted 
that Mr F had provided an address change in July 2019.
Mr F still didnt accept the investigators findings and so the complaint has now been referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I am very sorry to note that Mr F has had such a bad time recently. Ive taken note of 
his personal circumstances, and I do understand that his situation has been very difficult. But 
I must put aside my own personal feelings of empathy and review the case impartially, 
based on the available evidence.
Mr F has asked me to base my review only on certain documents he has selected which he 
considers most relevant to his case. But I am required to review all the evidence, and this is 
what I have done.
As I said at the outset, I am concentrating on what I consider to be the main issues in the 
complaint. Mr F has made detailed submissions about what he perceives to be fraudulent 
activity, his concerns about BMs business processes and about BMs response to his 
DSAR. But the Financial Ombudsman Service has no regulatory or supervisory powers, we 
are not a court, we cant tell BM how to run its business and we dont investigate allegations 
of criminal activity or breaches of the General Data Protection Regulation in relation to 
DSARs (which fall within the remit of the Information Commissioner).
In addition, under s.109 Law of Property Act 1925, the LPA Receivers are Mr Fs agents, not 
BMs. If Mr F is unhappy at the actions of the LPA Receivers, hell need to take this up with 
them, as they are not subject to the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr F is unhappy that LPA Receivers were appointed by BM 
in July 2019. Although he said nothing about this at the time, Mr F now says that there were 
in fact no arrears as hed made a lump sum payment in July 2017 which should have been 
used to cover any shortfall in mortgage repayments.
Im satisfied that at the time the Receivers were appointed in July 2019, there had been no 
mortgage payment since December 2018. Ive gone through all the contemporaneous 
evidence and at no point does Mr F say to BM in 2019 before the LPA Receivers were 
appointed that he thought his account was in credit due to the July 2017 lump sum payment. 
Mr F didnt even mention this in his complaint form to us, and only raised this at a later stage 
in our investigation of his complaint.
I note that the lump sum was used to reduce the capital balance and that BM confirmed this 
to Mr F in 2017, and advised him of the effect of the capital reduction on the monthly 
repayment. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that in 2019 the mortgage account was in 
arrears and not in credit at the time the LPA Receivers were appointed.
Mr F provided BM with a change of address in July 2019, and hed been in regular telephone 
contact with BM before that. Ive noted what Mr F has said about BMs failure to contact him 
about the mortgage, but Im not persuaded that Mr F was unaware of what was happening 
with the account. The contact notes show regular contact between BM and Mr F. But 
because Mr F wasnt in a position to clear the arrears, there was little that could be done to 
assist him.
The mortgage terms and conditions allow BM to appoint LPA Receivers to manage a BTL 
property and to add the cost of this to the mortgage account. I appreciate Mr F is unhappy 
about this, but Im satisfied BM hasnt acted incorrectly or unfairly in this regard. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for. I understand he has wide-ranging 
concerns about BMs business practices and believes fraudulent activity has taken place 
within the bank. As I said above, those are not matters which fall within my remit. If Mr F 
rejects my decision it wont be legally-binding on him or BM and hell be free to pursue his grievances against BM through the courts or the police if he wishes to do so. I would suggest 
Mr F takes legal advice from a qualified solicitor before embarking on any legal action.
If Mr F is in financial difficulty, he might find it helpful to speak to one of the free debt 
advisory services such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide Mr F 
with contact details for those organisations, if hed like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman