DRN-2940717
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the general standard of service that shes received from Bank of 
Scotland plc (BOS).
What happened
Mrs S has a credit account with BOS on which she arranged a payment holiday. However, 
BOS then took a payment of £53 from her current account as a payment toward the credit 
account. Mrs S wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mrs Ss complaint. They noted that the payment that had been taken was a 
monthly payment that had been set up by Mrs S herself from Mrs Ss current account, and 
so they didnt feel that they should be considered at fault for that payment being made.
However, BOS acknowledged that they could have undertaken a more thorough review of 
Mrs Ss accounts at the time that the payment holiday had been arranged, and that if theyd 
done so the impending £53 payment from Mrs Ss current account might have been spotted 
and Mrs S notified. Because of this, BOS upheld Mrs Ss complaint and made a payment of 
£75 to her as compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, and she felt that the general standard of service 
that shed received from BOS during this time was poor. So, she referred her complaint to 
this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They acknowledged Mrs Ss concerns, but 
they felt that BOSs response to Mrs S regarding the payment taken from her current 
account, including the £75 payment of compensation, represented a fair and reasonable 
outcome to that aspect of Mrs Ss complaint. 
Additionally, our investigator felt that while Mrs S had expressed general concerns at the 
standard of service that shed received from BOS, she hadnt been able to provide specific 
examples of incidents that she was unhappy with such that this services review process 
could be undertaken. Because of this, our investigator didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mrs S to have arranged a payment 
holiday on her credit account only to discover that a payment was subsequently applied.
However, given that the payment in question was a recurring payment that Mrs S had set up 
from her current account, I find it difficult to conclude that BOS should be held accountable 
for that payment being made. Indeed, I feel that it would have been incumbent on Mrs S to 
have cancelled the recurring payment herself, given it was a payment that shed initiated.
While BOS also felt that they shouldnt be held accountable for the payment going ahead, 
they did acknowledge that they could have undertaken a more thorough review of Mrs Ss 
accounts when she arranged the payment holiday, which might have alerted them that the 
payment from the current account was scheduled. Because of this, BOS made a payment of 
£75 to Mrs S by way of compensation for any inconvenience incurred. This feels fair to me, 
and Im satisfied that it represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this aspect of Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Additionally, while Mrs S has expressed her dissatisfaction with the general standard of 
service provided by BOS during this period, despite repeated requests from our investigator, 
Mrs S hasnt provided specific incidents which she feels were examples of poor service. 
Mrs S has stated that she feels that she should be compensated for the hours that she spent 
on the telephone and has stated that BOS messed things up time and time again, but these 
statements dont provide any examples of precisely what Mrs S considers BOS have done 
wrong, and it must be noted that this service wouldnt look to award compensation to a 
complainant for time spent, especially where the business in question cant be shown to 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Indeed, given that Im satisfied that Mrs Ss complaint surrounding the payment to the credit 
account has been resolved fairly and reasonably by BOS, and given that I cant see any 
other incidents in the information available to me that leads me to consider that BOS might 
have treated Mrs S unfairly - and also that Mrs S hasnt highlighted any specific incidents 
herself in this regard - I find it very difficult to conclude that BOS have acted unfairly here, 
and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking BOS to take any 
further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs S wanted here, but I hope that she will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman