DRN-4425435
The complaint
Ms D complains about the amount Aviva Insurance Limited paid for a claim she made under 
her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Ms D held a buildings insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva, for a property she 
rented to tenants.
After the tenants reported a water leak, Ms D arranged and paid for a company, P, to 
locate the source of the leak, fix it, and repair the water damage.
Ms D then got in touch with Aviva. It accepted the claim and agreed to pay for some, 
but not all, of Ms Ds costs. In summary, Aviva:
oDeclined to pay for the pipe repair.
oOffered to pay for the building damage in full, less the policy excess.
oOffered £1,500 toward around £3,500 for the trace and access. It thought the 
time taken by P to source the leak and Ps hourly rate was excessive. It 
based the settlement offer on what it thought a reasonable cost would have 
been had it been able to carry out the work.
Ms D accepted the pipe repair wasnt covered by the policy but she thought the offer 
towards her trace and access cost was unfair. Whilst Aviva said leak detection 
services could have located the leak quickly, Ms D didnt think that would have made 
a difference as P located the leak promptly. She said much of the time taken by P 
involved removing the ceiling and a large, fitted cupboard, which was unavoidable.
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted fairly as it was entitled to settle the trace 
and access cost at the amount it would likely have paid had it dealt with the claim.
Ms D reiterated that the time taken to trace and access the leak was unlikely to have 
been lower if Aviva had dealt with the claim. But she accepted it would likely have 
been charged a lower hourly rate. As a result, she suggested it offer around £2,500 
for the trace and access work. She also said it wasnt clear that she was required to 
contact Aviva from the outset, rather than engage a local company and claim later.
An agreement wasnt reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva accepted the claim in principle and offered to pay in full for the building 
damage. It declined to pay for the pipe repair and Ms D has accepted that. As these 
points arent in dispute, I wont comment on them further. Ill focus on what remains in 
dispute, which is the amount Aviva offered toward the trace and access cost.
Whilst Aviva initially thought the amount Ms D paid included the cost of chlorination, 
shes pointed out it didnt. The document she received from P merely quoted for it. So 
that point wont be relevant when considering how much Aviva should pay.
The policy says Aviva will pay reasonable costs and expenses required to trace and 
access the leak. It doesnt specify that these costs will be based on what Aviva may 
have been to pay for trace and access  or on what Ms D paid. It simply requires 
settlement to be based on the reasonable costs.
The policy schedule contains a prominently highlighted section called Your 
obligations  action you must take. Amongst other things, it says you must tell us 
immediately or at least within seven days of becoming aware of any incident which 
may result in a claim and you can with our consent arrange for urgent repairs to be 
done immediately.
Ms D got in touch with Aviva within seven days, so she complied with the first 
obligation. She didnt comply with the second  but it doesnt set out the 
consequence of arranging repairs without Avivas consent. For example, it doesnt 
say that this would entitle Aviva to settle the claim at its own costs.
Taking these parts of the policy documents into account, Im not satisfied Aviva has a 
contractual right to limit the claim settlement to what it would have paid to resolve the 
problem if it had been in control of the work. Im satisfied Aviva is obliged to pay the 
reasonable cost for the work. Ill consider what that is, based on the information 
available to me.
Given what Ms D has said about the nature of the trace and access work, its not 
clear why Aviva thinks leak detection would have significantly sped up the process. It 
hasnt explained itself  its merely suggested leak detection can speed things up in 
some cases. But, in this particular case, Ms D says the leak was found quickly and 
most of the time was spent accessing it. Because of this, Im not persuaded the time 
it took P was unreasonable. And even if Aviva were in control of the work and used 
leak detection, it seems unlikely that would have made a significant difference.
Aviva says Ps hourly rate was unreasonable. It has access to rates which are 
significantly lower. So Aviva could have carried out the same work for a much lower 
cost. Whilst the policy doesnt entitle Aviva to settle the claim at its own cost, I think 
that cost is a relevant factor when considering what a reasonable amount is.
Taking Ps time, at Avivas hourly rate, plus materials, comes to roughly £2,500  as 
Ms D pointed out. I consider this figure to be a reasonable cost in the 
circumstances, as well as a pragmatic compromise to the dispute. So Im satisfied 
Aviva should pay this much in total for the trace and access. If its already paid the 
£1,500 it offered, it need only pay £1,000 more.
Had Aviva settled the claim along these lines initially or during discussions, Ms D 
would likely have received the extra £1,000 around a year sooner. It would also have saved her some avoidable inconvenience dealing with the matter. To take both of 
these things into account, Aviva should also pay £200 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D said she was delighted Id agreed with her suggested settlement figure. And 
whilst she was pleased Id suggested compensation, she asked that I increase the 
figure given the rate of inflation since she made the claim. She said she hadnt 
received the original £1,500 Aviva had offered her.
Aviva reiterated the term found in the policy schedule and noted above. It said Ms D 
didnt consult with Aviva prior to instructing P and Ps costs werent reasonable.
Ive thought about the responses provided by both parties and Im satisfied the 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision remains a fair one in the circumstances.
In my provisional decision, I took into account the term Aviva mentioned. I explained 
that it didnt set out the consequences if Ms D didnt comply with it. And I also noted 
the policy wording said settlement was to be based on the reasonable costs. So Ive 
already considered the point Aviva has made. Thinking about it again, I remain 
satisfied that both terms taken together dont entitle Aviva to settle at its own cost  
but that it should settle at the reasonable cost.
I agreed with Aviva that it would be fair for the claim to be settled at Avivas hourly 
rate, rather than Ps. Ms D has accepted that too. Aviva hasnt challenged my view 
that the amount of hours is reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont think this 
point is in dispute or needs any further discussion.
Ms D was entitled to ask Aviva to pay the £1,500 it had offered. So she didnt have to 
go without that sum. And in any case, my award wouldnt be based on inflation but on 
the consequence of being without the additional £1,000 for longer than she ought to 
have been. Thats likely to be missing out on interest or the opportunity to use the 
money. Taking that, and the avoidable inconvenience, into account, Im still satisfied 
that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay a total of £2,500 for the trace and access claim.
Pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman