DRN-3032033
The complaint
Mrs D complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) had a credit card 
account with an outstanding balance in her own name that she was unaware of. She 
believed that she only had an additional card on another persons account.
What happened
Mrs D applied to Virgin Money for a credit card account in April 2021, but her application was 
declined. So, she contacted Virgin to ask why. Virgin explained that she already had an 
existing credit card account with a balance owed of £9,730.72.
Mrs D said she was shocked as she wasnt aware of this account. She asked Virgin why 
there was a balance outstanding. She said that she always repaid any credit card balances 
in full every month. Virgin confirmed that the account had been set up with a regular monthly 
direct debit to pay the minimum balance only.
Mrs D didnt agree with Virgin. She believed that her credit card had been issued as an 
additional card on another persons account. She said that shed never received any 
statements or correspondence relating to this account and had no online access to check it.
Mrs D repaid the amount owed in full. But remained unhappy. So, she decided to complain 
to Virgin. She thought theyd made a mistake here. Mrs D wanted Virgin to refund all the 
interest and charges as shed never been aware of this.
Virgin responded to Mrs Ds complaint on 7 May 2021. They didnt agree theyd made a 
mistake. They said theyd checked their records and Mrs D had applied for the account 
through their website, in her own name. They said she wasnt named as an additional card 
holder on any other accounts.
Virgin said that theyd emailed her every month to confirm her statement was available to 
view online and had previously sent other correspondence to her home address. They said it 
was Mrs Ds responsibility to check her statement each month. They said that the interest 
and charges had been applied correctly and they wouldnt be able to refund these.
Mrs D wasnt happy with Virgins response. So, she decided to refer her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ds complaint. He thought that Virgin had 
acted fairly here and didnt agree that they should refund interest and charges.
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, she asked for her complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D is assisted by another party in bringing her complaint to this service. For simplicity, 
Ive referred to all comments and information as having been provided by Mrs D.
Mrs D told this service that she wasnt aware that she had a credit card account with Virgin 
in her own name. I can appreciate how much of a shock this must have been for her. 
Particularly when Virgin told her the balance that was owed. It was fortunate that Mrs D was 
in a position to repay the outstanding amount in full. This, at least, ensured that no further 
interest and charges would be applied to it.
Virgin have provided this service with an explanation of how and when the account was 
opened together with the related information they hold on their files. I am aware that Mrs D 
had previously asked Virgin to provide a copy of the application form they said she 
completed. Virgin have explained that this isnt possible. The application was made online 
through their website so a paper copy wouldnt be available.
Virgin have provided full details of the online application from their system. Ive checked the 
information against that provided to this service by Mrs D. The application was made at 
12:35 on 23 July 2018 in Mrs Ds sole name. The name, address and date of birth match 
those provided by Mrs D. Ive seen that the application included Mrs Ds bank account 
details and she elected for any communications to be by email only. Shed declined the 
provision of paper statements and elected for a minimum payment to be made each month 
by direct debit. The application was signed electronically on the same day. 
I have seen nothing that would lead me to doubt the authenticity of the application details. 
Particularly when minimum payments have since always been paid each month from Mrs 
Ds bank account. I would expect Mrs D to notice these payments going out of her account 
and know what they related to. I think its also reasonable to expect her to be aware of her 
own spending when using the card. Mrs D hasnt denied that she has the card, only that she 
didnt think it related to an account in her sole name.
Virgin said their records show that Mrs D contacted them by telephone on 3 February 2020 
to discuss the account. During the call, Mrs D completed their security checks to identify 
herself and Virgin confirmed to her that the minimum payments were all up to date. While I 
appreciate that Mrs D said that she wasnt aware of the account, Virgins records do suggest 
otherwise.
Mrs D has told this service that she has never received any statements or correspondence. 
Given that the application shows that Mrs D had elected not to receive paper statements, I 
wouldnt have expected her to do so. But Virgin have confirmed that they did email her every 
month to say that her statement was available to view online. The email address on the 
application matches that provided to this service. So, its reasonable to conclude that these 
were sent correctly. Mrs D didnt register to view her account online. Virgin have confirmed 
this. But this was an option available to her.
Virgin have provided copies of the information sent to Mrs D when she opened her account. 
This includes their Application Approval email which explains how Mrs D could access her 
account online to view her statements. It also makes it clear that statements would only be 
available online and would not be sent in the post. Thats what Virgin did here.
Virgin have also provided a copy of the welcome booklet sent to Mrs D with her card. It 
appears clear that Mrs D received her card given shes been using it. So, its reasonable to 
conclude that she wouldve also received the welcome booklet. The booklet also explains 
how to access her account online.
I then looked at the credit card agreement sent by Virgin to Mrs D. Section 8 refers to 
statements and other communications. Section 8.2 states that Mrs D is responsible for 
checking your statement each month.
Overall, I believe Virgin were clear about how statements could be accessed and what Mrs 
Ds responsibilities were.
Virgin have confirmed that any interest and charges applied to Mrs Ds account were 
calculated in accordance with the credit card agreement. Section 7.2 of the credit card 
agreement says We will not charge interest on Card Purchases and related fees, as long as 
you pay the full balance shown on your statement by the payment date. Otherwise, we will 
charge interest each day on all transactionsfrom the date they are added to your account until you pay them off in full. This is generally standard practice within the credit card 
industry. The balance wasnt being cleared each month as only minimum payments were 
being made. So, the interest charges appear to have been made appropriately.
I realise that Mrs D will be disappointed but having reviewed everything provided my Mrs D 
and Virgin, on balance I cant reasonably say that Virgin have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman