DRN-3687439
The complaint
X and Mr J complained about Amtrust Europe Limited. They are not happy that it turned 
down a claim under their new home warranty.
What happened
Mr J and X made a claim under their new home warranty policy a few years after they 
moved into their property. They were experiencing land slippage at the side of the house 
under their garden fence. 
But when Amtrust looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because the damage 
sustained wasnt to the Housing Unit which was defined under the policy as Housing Unit 
does not include any.fence, retaining or boundary wall not forming part of or providing 
support to the Structure. And so Amtrust turned down the claim as it felt the fence, where 
the slippage was noted, didnt form part of the housing unit so it couldnt cover the cost of 
repair or replacement. It accepted the boundary fence seemed to be ineffective at retaining 
the ground, although seemingly fine at the time of construction, but said that this particular 
defect wasnt covered by the policy as it wasnt part of the Housing Unit.
As Mr J and X remained unhappy they complained to this Service. Our investigator looked 
into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. This was because she didnt think 
Amtrust had acted unreasonably in turning down the claim as the problem with land slippage 
around the fence wasnt part of the Housing Unit or structure, so it wasnt covered under the 
policy.
As Mr J and X didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr J and X, but Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I know that there has been some discussion as to whether or not Mr J and Xs claim was 
brought in time. But Amtrust has been clear in its final response letter that it has turned down 
their claim as the land slippage around the fence isnt part of the Housing Structure, so Ill 
focus on this in my decision. 
I can understand Mr J and Xs frustration here as they have a land slippage problem around 
their fence, and they feel it should be covered by their policy. But their policy, as with all 
insurance policies, doesnt cover every eventuality. And so, the question I need to consider 
is whether Amtrust did anything wrong in turning down their claim under the policy. 
Mr J and X have advanced a number of issues and complaints with Amtrust about their 
property which have been considered separately. This complaint has focussed solely on 
whether Amtrust have acted reasonably in turning down the claim in relation to the land 
slippage problem around their fence on the left-hand side of their house adjacent to their 
property. 
Amtrust have said the claim isnt covered as the problem with land slippage is only related to 
the fence at the side of the house and isnt related to the housing unit which it would need to 
be in order for a claim to be met. Whereas Mr J and X feel the claim should be met and that 
Amtrust hasnt taken into account the technical manual which says that landscaping should 
be designed and constructed so it is reasonably level within 3m of the Housing Unit, and 
consistent with the levels of adjacent features. and unstable ground slopes are avoided 
by suitably designed retaining walls or grading of the ground to avoid future movement. 
However, as our investigator outlined, the policy says The Underwriter will indemnify the 
Policyholder during the Defects Insurance Period against the cost of repairing, replacing 
or rectifying any Defect in the Housing Unit for which the Developer is responsible and 
which is discovered and notified to the Developer during the Defects Insurance Period and 
which is notified to the Underwriter within 6 months of the expiry of the Defects Insurance 
Period.
But, importantly in this case, the policy says it will consider a claim in relation to A failure to 
comply with a functional requirement in the Technical Manual in respect of the construction 
of the Housing Unit. And a Housing Unit is defined by the policy as the Structure, and 
any Common Parts retaining or boundary walls forming part of or providing support to the 
Structure;, and doesnt include the following:  any swimming pool, temporary structure, 
free-standing household appliance, fence, retaining or boundary wall not forming part of or 
providing support to the Structure.
So, although I can understand Mr J and Xs frustration the claim isnt covered under the 
policy as the problem doesnt form part of the housing structure. And, as outlined above, it is 
clear that cover doesnt include the fence which is what Mr J and X are looking to claim for 
here. Therefore, the land that is slipping away that is being complained about doesnt form 
part of the Housing Unit as it doesnt support or form part of the Structure. This means this 
claim cant be considered under Section 3.2 of the warranty under the Defects Insurance 
Period that Mr J and X believe that they first notified Amtrust of.
I note there are other possible reasons why the ground is slipping away rather than the fence 
not performing as it should or there being a fault with the construction. But, importantly, I 
havent been provided with any evidence of major damage or physical damage to the actual 
Housing Unit caused by the problem Mr J and X have faced in relation to their fence. And as 
Ive already outlined, a defect only applies to a failure in the construction of the housing unit 
as per the technical manual. As the land adjacent to the property doesnt form part of the 
housing unit, it means that the claim cant be considered under the warranty. 
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr J and X have found 
themselves I cant say that Amtrust have acted unreasonably in turning down their claim in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman