DRN-3781967
The complaint
Mr S complains about Interactive Investor Services Limited, referred to as IISL or the 
business.  
In short, hes unhappy IISL took over his ISA account and introduced changes that he didnt 
agree to  including new terms and conditions. Hes also unhappy with the service provided. 
What happened
In May 2009, Mr S opened an ISA account with Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS). The 
documentation suggests that perhaps he paid an account fee  a 20% flat rate fee  charged 
every 12 months. Mr S maintains that he only agreed to pay £30 a year, and because he 
met a certain criteria, he didnt have to pay anything.  
In 2015, RBS merged with TD Direct Investing (TDDI). Its not in dispute that Mr S wasnt 
charged a fee, however the reason as to this is unclear. IISL suggests that this mightve 
been as a result of a promotional offer, or a fee exemption marker on Mr Ss account but it 
remains in dispute. 
The business partially upheld the complaint on the basis that it failed to call Mr S back when 
it said it would  it has apologised for doing so. But it doesnt otherwise accept that it 
behaved unreasonably. In short, it said:
In June 2017, it was publicly announced that it would be taking over TDDI  the 
process was completed in December 2017, by which time Mr Ss account was also 
migrated.
It emailed Mr S about this and his account, in October 2017  it also sent a link to its 
terms and conditions. Mr S was initially charged a quarterly fee of £22.50 to access 
his (IISL) platform which commenced in January 2018. 
It doesnt need consent from the account holder to make changes to the terms of 
service. 
Its the account holders responsibility to keep up to date with correspondence and 
manage their own account in a way that means they keep up with changes. 
In April 2019, it sent Mr S a secure message to his online account notifying him about 
the new fee structure  namely £9.99 a month from June 2019. Mr S wouldve also 
received an email prompt asking him to log into his account to view the message. 
Mr S says he didnt receive any correspondence, so wasnt aware of the planned 
changes. He only became aware when he contacted TDDI in September 2021. He 
also didnt check his account because he didnt intend to trade but it (IISL) has been 
sending him statements from January 2018 which detailed the fees have been 
charged. 
The business notified Mr S of the changes 30 days in advance as it was contractually 
obliged to. Despite what happened with DDTI, Mr S paid a fee to RBS when the 
account opened. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
IISL notified Mr S about the takeover of TDDI in December 2017, as it was obliged to 
including the impact this would have on him. It notified Mr S that it would charge 
£22.50 by way of fees, per quarter, and provided a link to its terms and conditions. 
Shes satisfied that the emails were sent to the correct email address. Although Mr S 
denies receiving them, and if he didnt receive them, he wouldnt have read them 
because he thought they were fraud. Its likely he did receive the emails, and they 
shouldve prompted him to find out what was going on and why he was being 
contacted so many times the business  especially as the initial email included the 
email address/details for TDDI. 
In June 2019 IISL decided to change its pricing structure so that it would charge 
£9.99 a month rather than a quarterly fee. Once again, this information was sent to 
the online account in good time, with an email to Mr S prompting him to access his 
account  but Mr S only accessed his account from September 2021, when he knew 
the account was with IISL. 
When Mr S was with RBS, he was paying an account fee (20% flat rate) which he 
agreed to when he first opened the account. Although the fee wasnt as much as it is 
now, it was always due. 
Even though Mr S wasnt accessing his account, IISL was still providing a service 
and therefore was still entitled to charge for its services. 
IISL acted reasonably by making Mr S aware of the changes and charges. There 
were also options available to him if he didnt want to move to IISL. 
Mr S was concerned about the service he received from the business. He had an 
issue about his address and the business promised to call back the next day but 
didnt. 
When the account was migrated, IISL wouldve received Mr Ss details from TDDI. 
Whilst it was frustrating that documents were sent to his previous address, this isnt 
something she can blame IISL for. Despite this, IISL tried many times to contact Mr 
S. 
IISL partially upheld the complaint and apologised for sending documents to an old 
address, but overall, it has dealt with Mr S in a fair manner. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theres 
been much correspondence, but in summary, he made the following key points:
He never agreed to pay a 20% flat rate fee with RBS  he only agreed to a £30 a 
month charge. But because the fee was subject to certain conditions  which he 
fulfilled  he didnt have to pay. 
Its not true that he expected to pay with IISL as he paid next to nothing for nine 
years  but he has already paid £500 in four years with IISL. The set up isnt suitable 
for him given that hes a (pro) regular investor. 
IISL had his updated address from 2017, when the switch happened  he saw it 
when he first logged into the account in September 2021. It wasnt TDDIs fault as 
suggested by the investigator. Hes attached screenshot proving his points.  
Theres an assumption that the number of emails should encourage him to open the 
email, but he doesnt agree that should open emails from an unknown source. 
The business made the following observations in response to the investigators view:
Whilst it has empathy for Mr S not wishing to open emails from an unknown source, 
the information provided made clear that it had taken over TDDI. 
If Mr S still had concerns, there were a number of things he couldve done including a 
quick search of the FCA register to verify its details or checking the news to see 
reports of its takeover. Mr S failed to keep an eye on his account, but IISL isnt responsible for this. It issued 
him with several notifications about the takeover detailing the necessary changes 
therefore fulfilled its obligations.   
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In short, she said:
Mr S agreed to a 20% flat rate fee as per the documentation he provided. 
Despite what Mr S says, IISL took reasonable steps to notify him about the changes 
and the information was readily available.  
Despite what Mr S says, he was responsible for managing his own account, and he 
couldve contacted IISL to confirm what was happening. 
Overall, shes unable to say that Mr S wasnt notified about the migration and 
changes. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators latest view, and made the following key points: 
He didnt agree to pay a 20% flat rate fee. He only agreed to a £30 annual fee which 
he knew would be waived, when he met a certain criteria. This allowed him to pay 
nothing, or next to nothing, for nine years compared to the £500 hes paid in the last 
four years. 
Did the investigator receive a copy of the letter from December 2017, informing him 
of the account switch and fee structure prior to the switch? IISL have refused to 
share it with him. 
The investigator didnt comment upon or reply to his concerns about him being told 
that one day he could be prosecuted as a self-employed person. 
He didnt open the emails from IISL, as per advice from financial institutions, because 
he didnt recognise the source. 
Im aware that Mr S made further points reiterating his position and providing further 
documentation for consideration which I need not repeat here. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im not persuaded that 
the business behaved unreasonably in relation to the planned changes and takeover of his 
account. That said, I think the apology previously made by the business for failing to call him 
back when it said it would, is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Before I explain why Im not upholding this complaint, I think its important for me to 
recognise Mr Ss frustration and strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont uphold this complaint for the following 
key reasons:
Different financial businesses operate under different business models which they 
are entitled to. As long as theyre not behaving unreasonably its not for us to tell a 
business how to run its affairs. In the circumstances I cant blame IISL for imposing 
fees after taking over Mr Ss account with TDDI.   
In other words, a business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement, to decide the conditions under which it offers its services  
including whether or not it charges for services. As I mentioned above, its not for us 
to tell a business how it should run its affairs. So, I cant say that the business has 
done anything wrong by deciding to charge for services that an investor previously 
received for free, if that was indeed the case. 
Based on what Mr S says, it seems that he doesnt necessarily agree with IISL taking 
over the predecessor business. Be that as it may, its not something that our 
organisation can get involved in. A business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of 
its legitimate commercial judgement, to acquire another business and run its affairs 
as it pleases  it doesnt need consent or agreement of the investor, however it does 
need to take reasonable steps to notify the account holder, and give them options if 
they dont wish to move to the new business, which on balance I believe it has done. 
In this instance Im satisfied that emails were sent to the correct address  its the 
same email Mr S has had since he opened his account with RBS. Although Mr S 
denies receiving the emails, I think its likely he received them. Im not aware of any 
issues with his service provider/the internet, and even if there was, I cant blame the 
business for any issues with a third-party email delivery service. In the 
circumstances, and on balance, I dont think its material whether a letter was also 
sent in December 2017 as the material information about what was happening was 
sent to him via email. 
Despite what Mr S says about his suspicions regarding fraudulent emails, I think if 
hed read the email(s), he more likely (than not) wouldve known that they were 
legitimate  because he couldve made an informed decision about the provenance 
of the messages. Based on what IISL says, I note one of the earliest emails also 
included details from TDDI, so there was nothing stopping him from contacting IISL 
or TDDI, to confirm what was going on but he chose not to read any of the messages 
which I dont think was reasonable in the circumstances.  
Subject to any specific agreement between the businesses, there isnt generally an 
obligation on the acquiring business to continue to provide an identical service. 
Furthermore, any previous agreement a customer may have had with a predecessor 
business, isnt (automatically) valid with the new business either. 
Even if Mr S wasnt paying a fee with TDDI (for whatever reason), and previously 
didnt with RBS because he met a certain criteria, IISL still isnt obliged to offer the 
same deal  and Ive seen no evidence of any agreement that it was. 
In other words, I note IISL says that Mr S mightve had a fee exemption marker, or a 
promotional offer with TDDI, but irrespective of the reason IISL wasnt obliged to offer 
Mr S the same deal  and made reasonable efforts to notify him of the initial and 
subsequent changes to the fees, so I cant say the business behaved unreasonably in this instance. 
I appreciate Mr Ss comments about the up to date tax implications, and that Mr S 
as a self-employed person could be prosecuted if he isnt up to date. I note the 
business says it simply read out from its terms and conditions, but Mr S disagrees. 
Whatever it may have been, I dont think, IISL was unreasonable in reminding him 
about what could happen if he wasnt on top of these issues. In other words, if Mr S  
as a self-employed person  generally wasnt up to date with his general obligations 
regarding tax, he could be prosecuted. Given the general nature of the message, 
Im not persuaded that it was specifically about Mr S.   
I appreciate what Mr S says about why he opened a share ISA account (as a long-
term investment), as opposed to a cash ISA. But that doesnt in my opinion relieve 
him of his general responsibility to keep an eye on his investment. There were no 
guarantees by IISL that changes wouldnt be introduced, or that Mr S didnt need to 
keep an eye on any forthcoming notifications regarding his ISA because he didnt 
plan to trade. The two issues in my opinion are separate. 
In other words, having a long-term plan (and not planning to trade) isnt a justification 
for ignoring any account updates/notifications.
In any case, IISL was still providing a service for which it was entitled to charge for, 
that wasnt contingent upon Mr S trading.   
Im mindful that Mr S also had options if he didnt want to move to IISL, but by him 
not moving/taking no action, I cant say that IISL did anything wrong. 
In the circumstances, I cant blame IISL for introducing changes that Mr S didnt take 
notice of, despite being notified of them in good time. I note he probably chose to 
ignore the email messages, and regardless of whether or not he was justified in 
doing so, I cant say the business behaved unreasonably. 
Im mindful IISL has already apologised for not calling back when it said it would. In 
the circumstances, I think this is broadly fair and reasonable.  
Based on what Mr S says, he probably isnt happy about the way his complaint has been 
dealt with by the business. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore 
isnt something that I can consider. 
I appreciate Mr S will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman