DRN-3232447
The complaint
Mr D complains against Barclays Bank UK PLC, (Barclays) about his experience of the 
Smart Investor platform.
In summary, Mr D says:
Barclays failed to provide him with information regarding the historical market value 
of shares hed previously purchased through Barclays old platform. 
Hes had issues accessing his account online.
He was unable to make an election in relation to a corporate action as result of the 
online access issues.
What happened
Shares in Company A
Mr D purchased 899,681 shares in a company I will refer to as Company A, between 
February and April 2011 for a total of £35,234.63. These shares were previously held within 
Barclays old investment platform. 
Barclays wrote to Mr D in April 2014 to explain that shares in Company A were to be de-
listed from the Alternative Investment Market (AIM)  a sub-market of the London Stock 
Exchange  which later happened in May 2014.
Barclays informed Mr D around June 2017 that it was unable to transfer his shares in 
Company A to its Smart Investor platform. Mr D asked Barclays to transfer these shares to 
another investment broker and the transfer completed in October 2017. 
Mr D contacted Barclays in September 2019 to request all documents relating to his shares 
in Company A. Barclays responded by explaining it would send him copies of his contract 
notes of all his trades, as well as details of any corporate actions regarding the holding and 
duplicate statements covering the period from when he held the shares. Its not clear what 
information Barclays provided Mr D with, but he contacted it again in October 2019 to 
explain that he hadnt received all the information he required. And he queried why it couldnt 
provide him with the cumulative volume and value of his shares over time. 
Mr D complained to Barclays as it failed to provide him with historical market values for his 
shares. Without this information he said hes unable to determine why his shares have 
dropped to just under £3,000 in value.
Barclays explained it had reviewed its archives and found some transactions relating to Mr 
Ds shares in Company A. It said that Company A had consolidated its shares in March 2017 
and as such, he went from owning 4,498,405 shares to 4,498. However, Barclays confirmed 
that this didnt affect the book value (i.e. the price he originally paid for the shares) of his 
holding. Barclays explained it provides an execution only service and so its not responsible 
for keeping Mr D updated on the market value of his shares. It said it was sure it had 
transferred the correct number of shares to his new investment broker and suggested that 
any drop in value may be due to the shares being delisted from AIM. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the response he received from Barclays and wanted to know why 
the number of shares he owned in Company A had changed from being 899,681 to 
4,498,405 sometime between 2011 and 2017. And so he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
she said:
Barclays had provided our service with a copy of the corporate action letter is sent to 
Mr D in April 2014 which explained that shares in Company A would be delisted from 
AIM.
The statements provided by Barclays prior to the consolidation in March 2017 didnt 
provide a market value and suggest that only a book value was available. 
She was satisfied from the evidence provided by Barclays that despite the 
consolidations, his book value remained the same each time and so any loss in 
market value of the shares wasnt down to administrative error by Barclays.
Whilst there was limited information as to why the amount of his shares increased 
from 899,681 to 4,498,405, she had found an online thread from investors in 
Company A which suggested Company A was considering a scheme of arrangement 
in December 2016. And this would result in investors shares increasing five-fold. 
Whilst Barclays was unable to validate this, she felt this could explain the increase in 
his shareholding. 
Barclays had sent what limited information was available to Mr D but didnt think it 
was required to provide any further information as an execution only service.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators opinion. In summary he said:
Barclays previously shared quarterly portfolio statements which summarised the 
current value of stocks and shares he held and so it should be able to provide this for 
his shares in Company A. 
All of the information Barclays had provided gave no insight into why the value of 
shares dropped. The market value of the shares dropped by the same factor as the 
share consolidation on the same date - the shares were consolidated by a factor of 
ten and as was the market value of his shares. 
Hes conducted extensive research online into the impact that other investors have 
had due to the share consolidation, and no one had suffered such a significant loss 
as a result. 
Whilst he understands that Barclays is an execution only service, hes confident that 
all financial institutions are obligated to retain customer documentation for an 
extended period, generally between five and seven years.
Online access issues
Mr D complained to Barclays in July 2020 as he was having issues accessing his Barclays 
Smart Investor account online. Upon entering his details and selecting the option to enter his 
passcode, the page directed Mr D to the PINsentry page. However, Mr D couldnt use 
PINsentry because he no longer had a Barclays current account. Mr D said that being 
unable to access his account online has meant hes prevented from executing any trades to 
protect his portfolio value. Mr D said hes lost out financially as a result and these issues 
have caused him significant undue stress.  Barclays looked into Mr Ds complaint and upheld some of aspects of it. Barclays recognised 
the issues Mr D had with his online access. It said it was pleased to see Mr D was able to 
access his account online after being sent a new passcode but noted he was still unable to 
access secure messages online. Barclays said this was to do with him no longer holding a 
Barclays bank account and his feedback had been noted. Barclays offered £50 and a 
hamper in recognition of the inconvenience caused. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint 
about the app access. It said the Barclays app was regrettably not compatible with Mr Ds 
phone manufacturer and that it currently had no plans to change this as the majority of its 
customers do not use these handsets.
Mr D also referred this complaint issue to our service and the investigator also considered 
this in her view. She said:
Mr D was able to access his account online when his passcode was reset but 
recognised that he was still unable access his secure messages.
Our service cant tell a business how they should do things when it comes to 
commercial decisions, and this includes what security measures it puts in place to 
protect its consumers.
Barclays had offered to create a new membership for his investment portfolio and 
that he doesnt need to open a bank account with Barclays or have PINsentry to 
access it.
Mr D could call the Barclays Smart Investor number to discuss his options including 
how to be notified of important events.
Mr D also became locked out of his account in November 2020, after he had brought 
his complaint to our service. She said Barclays was able to resolve the matter with 
setting up a new passcode and again offered to change his membership, but he 
declined as his complaint about his online access was ongoing.
Barclays has provided feedback on the secure message issue and she felt this was 
fair alongside the compensation offered. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators opinion. In summary he said:
The level of compensation offered doesnt reflect the level of inconvenience caused 
by having no online stockbroker access on so many occasions since July 2020 and 
having to contact Barclays to resolve this each time.
Sending a new passcode worked a handful of times before stopping, so when he was 
offered the option of a memorable password on the latest occasion in November 
2020, he declined as there were no guarantees it would work.
He has over ten investments with Barclays and so its not practical to call every time 
he wants to get information or to trade. 
Hes paying Barclays around £135 a year for the account and so he should be able to 
access his account online.
Company Bs rights issue
Mr D also complained to Barclays about not being able to respond to a corporate action in 
relation to some shares he owned in another company, which Ill call Company B. The 
corporate action involved a rights issue in which Company B was offering existing 
shareholders an opportunity to purchase more shares. The corporate action outlined that if 
investors elected to purchase more shares then they would need to have elected to do so by 
9 November 2020 otherwise the default election of taking no action would be applied. 
Mr D received a text on 28 October 2020 from Barclays notifying him of Company Bs 
corporate action. Barclays also sent a letter the same day. Mr D was unable to access the corporate action online due to the difficulties Ive outlined above in accessing his account. Mr 
D called Barclays on 11 November 2020 to elect to purchase shares, but Barclays explained 
he had missed the deadline for it to action any request. 
Mr D complained to Barclays as he felt the unresolved issues with accessing his account 
online led to him missing out on making an election. He said the text he received said he 
should try the online portal to make the election but as he couldnt get access, he called the 
contact number presented to him online when trying to log in to his account. He said there 
were long hold times and he was unable to get through to Barclays on this number. It later 
transpired that this contact number was for the banking side of Barclays business and not a 
Smart Investor number.   
Barclays said it had given Mr D eleven days notice to take any action and it had no evidence 
of him contacting it. Barclays added that the letter contained the correct Smart Investor 
telephone number for him to call to take any action but by the time he called this number on 
11 November 2020 the deadline had already passed for it to action his request. It did 
however, recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr D by the online issues and information 
provided on its website and offered to pay £100 into his nominated bank account. A hamper 
was also offered. 
Mr D also referred this complaint issue to our service and the investigator also considered 
this in her view. She didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly and in short, she said:
Mr D was given enough notice to make an election.
Mr D was provided with the correct Smart Investor telephone number on the letter.
She recognised that Mr D had made several attempts to log in to his online account 
on 4 October 2020 and that it was locked. But felt he could have called Barclays on 
the correct number prior to the deadline passing.
The compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators opinion. In summary he said:
Whilst he had eleven days to make an election, he tried calling Barclays banking 
telephone number provided on the website and had been on hold for a significant 
amount of time during a weekday. His job means that he doesnt have free time to be 
able to wait on hold.
The letter with the correct telephone number didnt arrive for some time after it was 
sent on 28 October 2020.
As no agreement could be reached on any of Mr Ds complaint issues, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the detailed submissions that Mr D has provided. I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered his submissions in their entirety. However, I hope Mr D doesnt 
take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each submission or every point he has 
raised. The purpose of my decision is to explain my findings on the issues I consider key in 
the complaint. These key issues do overlap somewhat but for ease Ive provided my findings 
under separate headings. Shares in Company A
I appreciate how frustrating it must be for Mr D not knowing why his shares in Company A 
have substantially dropped in value. And whilst my role isnt to determine why this decrease 
in value has occurred, Im satisfied Barclays isnt at fault. I will explain why. 
Share prices are ultimately dictated by the market in which the shares are traded. In general 
terms, share prices rise during periods of increased demand, when there are more buyers 
than sellers. Prices fall during periods of increased supply, when there are more sellers than 
buyers. In Mr Ds case, its not clear what the price of shares in Company A was prior to 
them being delisted from AIM in May 2014. Unfortunately, Barclays has been unable to 
provide statements from this time, but its possible that news of this could have caused the 
share price to decrease.  
Once the shares were delisted from AIM, there was no share price for Barclays to report on. 
This is clearly demonstrated by the share statements provided by Barclays from April and 
October 2016 which only provided a book value, and which stated the market price was 
unavailable. Shares in Company A remained unlisted until the decision was made by 
Company A to list its shares on the Nasdaq First North  a division of the Nasdaq Nordic - in 
April 2017. Ive seen a copy of the statement Barclays provided to Mr D dated October 2017. 
This statement, which was after shares in Company A were listed on the Nasdaq First North, 
did provide a market value as a share price was available. It confirmed he held 4,498 shares 
at this time with a market price of 66.37p with an overall market value of £2,985.32. So I 
dont think Barclays has acted unfairly by not being able to provide historical market prices 
during the time shares in Company A were unlisted.
I understand Mr D is concerned with the changes in the amount of shares he held in 
Company A over the years, despite him not buying or selling any shares during this time. Ive 
seen a copy of Company As 2017 annual report which explains that a reverse stock split - 
dividing the existing total quantity of shares by a 1000  at the end of February 2017. Which 
explains why Mr D went from owning 4,498,000 shares in Company A to 4,498. The assets 
statement provided by Barclays also supports this and so its clear Barclays hasnt caused 
any administrative error here. 
What is less clear is why Mr D went from owning 899,681 to 4,498,405 shares in Company 
A. The investigator previously explained that she had found an online thread from investors 
in Company A which suggested Company A was considering a scheme of arrangement in 
December 2016 which would result in investors shares increasing five-fold. Ive also seen 
this thread and whilst I cant confirm whether the scheme of arrangement definitely went 
ahead, on balance, Im persuaded this is likely the reason why his number of shares 
changed. I say this as the number of shares Mr D owned increased five-fold in line with the 
rumoured scheme of arrangement. Importantly, any changes in the share amounts as a 
result of Company As corporate actions wouldnt have changed the overall value of Mr Ds 
shares. This is because neither a reverse stock split nor a stock split directly changes the 
total market value of all outstanding shares. Although taking such action could change the 
value depending on how the market reacts to the news and the result of the stock split or 
reverse stock split. Importantly, Barclays isnt responsible for any decision Company A 
makes regarding changes to its share structure.   
Taking into account all of the above, Im not persuaded Barclays is responsible for the losses 
Mr D has suffered due to the fall in share price in Company A. Whilst Barclays has provided 
some information to Mr D to help him to determine why the share price has decreased, as an 
execution only service, I dont think Barclays was under any obligation to provide Mr D with 
updated share prices for his shares in Company A. When I consider this coupled with the 
fact that Barclays couldnt accept shares in Company A on its new Smart Investor platform in 2017, its not surprising that Barclays has limited information available to help Mr D and 
ultimately, I think its his responsibility to monitor and manage his investments. 
Online access issues
Its clear from Mr Ds submissions that hes grown tired of trying to fix the issues hes faced 
with logging on to his online account. And I understand his frustration. As the investigator 
correctly explained, the log in processes Barclays has put in place is for the protection and 
safeguarding of its customers and is a legitimate commercial decision which our service 
wouldnt get involved with. Barclays decision not to make its mobile app compatible to all 
mobile handsets is also a legitimate commercial decision which our service wouldnt 
challenge. What I can look at is whether Barclays actions have resulted in unfairness for Mr 
D.
Barclays has provided contact notes which show Mr D first contacted Barclays online via its 
web help function on 21 July 2020. Mr D explained his new mobile wasnt integrated with the 
Barclays app or PINsentry. Barclays advised Mr D that he would need to call it to allow it to 
change his membership and or issue a new passcode. Mr D contacted Barclays the next day 
to request a passcode. Im not sure why he nor Barclays explored the option of giving him a 
new membership but its possible that this could fix the issue as his membership would 
appear to still associated with his old Barclays bank account. 
It would seem that issuing a new passcode in July 2020 fixed the issue at this point, albeit 
temporarily. I say this as Ive seen Mr D emailed Barclays in August 2020 to explain that he 
was able to access his online account but said hed prefer to access it through the Barclays 
app. But he also explained that he was still unable to access his secure messages. Barclays 
final response letter acknowledged this, but it doesnt appear that a fix for this was put in 
place. 
I can see that Mr D emailed Barclays in November 2020 to explain that he was unable to 
access his account online again. Barclays responded by explaining that he should contact its 
client service team and provided the appropriate contact number. Mr D called Barclays on 24 
November 2020 to confirm hed received a new passcode but the slip to remove on the letter 
partially ripped the passcode. Barclays explained on this call how he could reset his 
passcode online, which he did as well as setting up a new memorable word. However, his 
new passcode wasnt accepted. I can see that during this call Barclays suggested that 
deleting his membership and setting up a new one might fix the issues he was having. Mr D 
declined to do this as his online access was already been looked at as a complaint. I think it 
was at this point that Mr D ought to have followed Barclays advice and tried setting up a 
new membership. I understand why he had his reservations due to fixes been put in place 
previously only to run in to the same issues. But even so, I feel it would be unfair to hold 
Barclays responsible for his decision not to explore this option after being advised to do so in 
November 2020. 
Whilst its unfortunate for Mr D that the Barclays app isnt compatible with his mobile 
handset, I dont think Barclays has treated him unfairly. I say this as access to the Barclays 
app isnt guaranteed and Barclays provides other ways for Mr D to access his information.  
Ive thought carefully about the impact of not always having online access had on Mr D. I 
understand he says that he was paying for Barclays Smart Investor service but has had no 
online access to quickly assess his portfolio in real-time and hes been unable to execute 
timely decisions. And he says hes lost out financially as a result. Its not clear how many 
times Mr D has had issues logging in and its possible he didnt contact Barclays on every 
occasion. It would appear that the issue has occurred intermittently, but Mr D hasnt beenconstantly prevented from logging in  as confirmed in his email in August 2020. Im also 
aware that Mr D was able to call Barclays if he needed any information or if he wanted to 
execute any trades. Whilst I appreciate this would be less convenient than accessing his 
account online, I still consider this to have been a way for him to mitigate any loss. Im also 
aware that Barclays offered to honour internet rates for trading over the phone whilst he was 
still having issues logging in. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to award any 
financial losses Mr D claims hes incurred as a result of not being able to execute trades 
online. 
I do however, recognise that the inconvenience this intermittent issue has caused him and 
its clear from the contact notes and his submissions that this has caused him some distress. 
Barclays has offered in total, £150 and hampers across all three of Mr Ds complain issues. 
Its not clear how much of this offer is purely for the inconvenience caused to him by not 
always being able to access his account online. Regardless, I think an additional £150 
should be awarded to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D. I say this 
as whilst he could have called Barclays to take any action with his investments, I recognise 
having to call is inconvenient for Mr D. Its also not practical for Mr D to continue calling to 
find out if he has any new incoming secure messages from Barclays  an issue which 
appears to have been persistent since July 2020. Its difficult to say with any certainty 
whether giving Mr D a new membership will alleviate his issues, but he was advised by 
Barclays to take this action in November 2020. So I think an additional £150 takes into 
account any and all distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D between July and November 
2020.
Company Bs rights issue
Whilst I acknowledge that the online access issues Mr D was having will have impacted his 
ability to make an election, he still could have made an election over the phone. I understand 
he called the telephone number provided online when trying to access his account rather 
than the Smart Investor number provided on the letter. However, Mr D was made aware of 
the deadline for making an election in the text message he received and also in the letter 
and so it was his responsibility to ensure he made an election prior to the deadline passing. 
Barclays terms and conditions explain the agreed action it would take in regard to corporate 
action. These explained:
3. Corporate actions
3.1 Unless we agree otherwise with you, where we hold Assets which give you rights in 
relation to a company, including if we become aware of any proposed class action or 
group litigation:
[]
(b) where such Assets are held by us under any other service:
(i) we will not be responsible for taking any action in relation to these matters;
(ii) we will not be obliged to notify you or obtain your instructions in relation to 
these matters;
(iii) if we do seek but do not receive your instructions by any deadline stated by 
us, we will take such action as we consider appropriate (including taking no 
action);
Barclays notified Mr D in advance of the corporate action and provided the Smart Investor 
telephone number to call in the letter. As it didnt receive any instruction from Mr D prior to the deadline passing, Barclays took no action. I think this was fair and in line with the terms 
set out above. 
Whilst its unfortunate Mr D didnt call the Smart Investor telephone number until after the 
deadline, if hed waited until Barclays answered his call on the banking contact number, I 
think its reasonable to expect that Barclays would have advised him of the correct contact  
number. I appreciate Mr D says he didnt have time to wait on hold, however, as Ive 
explained, the onus was on him to make the election on time. And as he didnt, I dont think it 
would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for this. 
I understand Barclays has previously offered Mr D £100 for any inconvenience caused in 
relation to this issue in the context of the online issues, website information and overall loss 
of expectation. Whilst I dont think compensation is warranted for the website information 
and overall loss of expectation as Barclays had provided him with the correct information for 
him to be able to make an election on time, I do recognise that the offer is also for the online 
access issue. And Ive considered this offer in my findings under the heading of online 
access issues. 
Putting things right
As explained, Barclays has previously offered £150 and hampers total across all of Mr Ds 
complaint issues Ive addressed above. Its not clear whether this has previously been sent 
to Mr D, but if not Barclays should arrange this as well as pay Mr D an additional £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to him between July and November 2020 for account 
access issues he experienced.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ds complaint and dircect Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay compensation as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman