DRN-2811671
The complaint
 Miss O complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) acted irresponsibly when agreeing to 
provide her with a credit card. She says that they increased the account limit on five 
occasions, causing her financial problems.
 
What happened
 Miss O applied to NewDay for a credit card in June 2014. NewDay assessed her application 
and agreed to issue a card with a credit limit of £450. After the account was opened, there 
were five increases to the limit up until December 2016. NewDay offered each one of these 
increases to Miss O in writing. On each occasion, they gave Miss O the opportunity to 
decline the increase offered before it was applied.
The credit limit increases that NewDay offered Miss O were:
September 2014 from £450 to £600, applied 23 September 2014
February 2015 from £600 to £800, applied 4 March 2015
December 2015 from £800 to £1,600, applied 23 December 2015
April 2016 from £1,600 to £2,200, applied 3 May 2016
November 2016 from £2,200 to £3,450, applied 9 December 2016
In April 2017, Miss O agreed a reduced payment arrangement of £1 per month with NewDay 
in respect of her outstanding debt. She told them she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
NewDay sent relevant regulatory letters to Miss O about the status of her account. They said 
that would register a default on her credit file. 
In June 2017, NewDay sold Miss Os debt to a debt management company and a default 
was registered on her credit file.
Miss O complained to NewDay in December 2019. She said that NewDay shouldnt have 
increased her credit limit between 2014 and 2017. She said shed only made minimum 
payments for a long while and was using a high level of her credit limit. She believes that this 
demonstrated that she couldnt repay the balance over a reasonable time period. Miss O 
said that her credit history, before taking the card, showed late payments and defaults which 
shouldve warned NewDay that she was struggling financially. 
NewDay responded to Miss Os complaint in writing on 26 March 2020. They didnt agree 
that theyd lent to her irresponsibly. They said that they considered the information provided 
by Miss O in her application together with the information held at credit reference agencies. 
They say that Miss O met their acceptance criteria and, as a result, she was provided with a 
card and credit limit appropriate to her circumstances. 
NewDay also said that they regularly reviewed how Miss O was using the card along with 
how she was managing other credit commitments. They say that they made risk-based 
assessments to ensure they were lending responsibly.
NewDay say that on each occasion that Miss O was offered an increase in her credit limit, 
her account had been reviewed and found to be eligible for the higher limit offered.
Miss O didnt agree with NewDays response. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Os complaint. He thought that NewDay had 
taken reasonable steps to establish that the limit increases between September 2014 and 
May 2016 were affordable to Miss O. But he also thought that NewDay had failed to 
complete proportionate checks before offering the limit increase in November 2016.
The investigator said that NewDay should refund all interest and charges from the point that 
the limit was increased to £3,450 in December 2016. He also said that NewDay should add 
8% interest to this figure and arrange to remove any adverse information from Mrs Os credit 
file.
NewDay didnt agree with what our investigator said and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Having reviewed Miss Os complaint, I reached a different outcome to that of our 
investigator. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 31 March 2021 giving both 
Miss O and NewDay Ltd the opportunity to respond to my findings below, before I reached a 
final decision.
In that decision, I said:
In reviewing Miss Os complaint, I need to consider whether the checks and 
assessments that NewDay completed here were reasonable and proportionate. Also, 
whether they were enough to satisfy them that Miss O would be able to repay any 
credit in a sustainable way. If they were, I need to consider if their decision to lend 
was a fair one, given the information they had.
Section 5.2A.20 of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) provides examples of 
the factors that need to be considered and the circumstances, under which, they 
should be applied.
Ive looked at a copy of the information included within Miss Os original application to 
NewDay. It says that Miss O was self-employed with a gross annual income of 
£35,000 and had existing unsecured debts totalling £3,700. This information wasnt 
verified. Her credit reference file shows that she had five active accounts/cards. 
There were defaults registered for amounts totalling £22,800 although thered been a 
period of 54 months following the last default. It also confirms that there were no 
account arrears, no payment arrangements and thered been a settled debt 
management plan.
NewDay say that their Aqua card is aimed at customers who are trying to rebuild and 
improve their credit rating. They say that it isnt unusual to see customers with a poor 
or absent credit history. This is their choice, but it is important that in each case, 
NewDay follow the rules and guidance laid down in CONC 5.2A.
NewDay agreed to issue Miss O a card with an initial limit of £450. I believe that the 
checks and assessments that NewDay undertook were fair and proportionate here. 
Miss O had experienced problems in the past. But there was no recent evidence of 
financial difficulty. Also, the limit agreed was small in relation to the income that Miss 
O told them she received and looked proportionately affordable given her other 
financial commitments.
I then considered each of the credit limit increases in turn. The first of these was in 
September 2014. Up to that point, Miss O had fully utilised her credit limit. Shed 
made payments on time and for amounts greater than the minimum required. Shed 
exceeded the limit for a period of 18 days in August. But shed made a payment to 
bring the balance back to the limit and a further payment before the due date. 
Although the limit was exceeded, Miss Os actions showed that she understood the 
situation and was able to take steps to adjust it without needing any help from 
NewDay. NewDays records show that there was no information on her credit file to suggest 
Miss O had any financial problems. So, they offered to increase her limit to £600. In 
the absence of any other adverse information, I think that this was a reasonable 
decision and that the checks were proportionate given the amount relative to her 
income and other commitments.
NewDay offered a further limit increase to £800 in February 2015. During the 
previous five months, Miss O had regularly been using at least 90% of her limit but 
hadnt exceeded it. She had always made monthly payments on time. Nothing 
adverse was recorded on her credit file. So, I can see why NewDay would be happy 
to offer this level of increase to Miss O. 
Following this increase, Miss O immediately took her account balance up to and in 
excess of the new limit. During the six months that followed, she exceeded her limit 
in four months and was late with payments on four occasions. This meant that Miss 
O also incurred late payment and over limit charges totalling £132. Some of these 
were reversed by NewDay. Its also relevant that between March 2015 and 
December 2015, the balance owed by Miss O at each month end never fell below 
93% of the limit, evidencing hardcore debt. In six of the ten months, Miss Os 
payments were the minimum required and the others were only slightly higher. Her 
monthly card spend was for nominal amounts within the available limit. 
NewDay say that when they consider a limit increase, they exclude customers that 
are late enough with payments to enter arrears within three months of a potential limit 
increase.
In December 2015, NewDay offered to increase Miss Os limit to £1,600. Miss Os 
statements show that the last time she exceeded her limit was in August 2015. Her 
last late payment was in October 2015. So, this appears to meet NewDays own 
policy for limit increases. There was also nothing in Miss Os credit file to suggest any 
problems. 
However, the conduct of Miss Os account since the previous increase does, I 
believe, raise questions over her ability, at the time, to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way. If not, should NewDay reasonably have realised that it was increasing Miss Os 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful? There were no 
clear reductions being made to the amount owed and £1,600 was a 100% increase in 
Miss Os limit. 
So, on balance, I believe that the proportionate response wouldve been for NewDay 
to undertake additional detailed tests and checks to better understand Miss Os 
financial situation at the time. I cant see that NewDay did this. Had they, I believe 
that they wouldve established a better understanding of her financial situation at the 
time. I also believe that it is more likely, than not, that NewDay wouldnt have offered 
to increase Miss Os limit.
Miss O has explained that throughout this period, she was self-employed. The 
original application to NewDay asked for her gross income.  She said that the figure 
she entered of £35,000 was her gross annual business turnover but this was before 
business expenses. In reality, the figure shouldve been her annual net profit, as this 
is what was available to her. I dont think this wouldve had an impact on her original 
application and the earlier limit increases. But, had NewDay completed further 
checks with Miss O, I believe it wouldve had a bearing on the proposed increase to 
£1,600.
From March 2016 onwards, Miss Os credit file shows other rising borrowings of 
between £4,395 and £6,011. From May 2016 onwards, the status of her debt 
repayments also deteriorated. It isnt unreasonable to conclude that Miss O was likely 
to have been struggling financially. So, as regards the further limit increases offered in April and November 2016, I believe it was also appropriate for NewDay to 
undertake additional detailed and proportionate assessments. NewDay have not 
explained their assessments in detail or provided anything to suggest additional 
checks were completed.
NewDay have said that Miss O had the opportunity to refuse each limit increase 
offered. They said that the new limit is normally applied 40 days after it is offered. 
Each of the limit increases were applied inside of this period. NewDay say that this 
suggests that Miss O contacted them to accept the limit increases. No evidence has 
been provided to confirm this. Even so, this doesnt mean that the increases were 
automatically appropriate, and that the checks made were proportionate. 
Having considered all of this, I dont believe that NewDay have demonstrated that 
they adequately assessed Miss Os ability to repay her borrowing in a sustainable 
way here. I believe that there were warning signs in the way that she operated her 
account which were subsequently supported by information on her credit file. If 
NewDay had made proportionate checks, I think it would have become clear that 
Miss O had more financial commitments and less disposable income that NewDay 
believed she had. 
I think its unlikely that a responsible lender, acting reasonably, wouldve approved 
the limit increases Ive mentioned here. So, I think that NewDay should put things 
right by calculating the interest and charges specifically applied to the increases in 
the limit on and after 23 December 2015 and refunding this amount. 
Unlike our investigator, I dont think that Miss O should receive 8% interest on this 
amount where Miss O hasnt actually been without this money. I say this as the 
refunds here would always be due to the credit card balance. But, if after 
recalculating the account in line with the above, this results in a credit balance that is 
due to Miss O  then 8% would be payable on that amount. I also think that NewDay 
should also recognise the distress caused to Miss O.
Miss O has received benefit from the money borrowed so, she will remain liable for 
any remaining amount outstanding. And I think its fair to say that the position with 
this account on her credit file is accurate, in that it represents that Miss O couldnt 
make payments and eventually defaulted on the account. I cant see that she would 
have been likely to have avoided this, even if the limits here hadnt been approved, 
given the information weve been provided. So, for this reason, I shall only be asking 
NewDay to amend any records on Miss Os credit file to reflect the interest and 
charges refunded and that any outstanding amounts are correctly reported.
NewDay responded to my provisional decision. They said that they follow the rules set out 
in the Financial Conducts Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook to ensure reasonable and 
proportionate checks are carried out. They go on to detail the data sources that they rely 
upon. They also said that they use their own affordability model  based upon various 
data and models provided by the bureaus and ONS data which is considered sufficient 
and reasonable by the FCA/CONC to use as an estimate of customers non-discretionary 
expenses. 
NewDay said that the retail spend on Miss Os card was not that of someone who may have 
been suffering difficulty and believe that interest should not be refunded for such 
transactions. They also believe that because Miss O chose to accept the increased limits 
offered, it is inappropriate to make an award for stress and anxiety.
Miss O has also responded to my provisional decision. She said that whilst she is happy to 
accept my recommendation, she believes that any interest refund should be paid directly to 
her rather than used to reduce the outstanding debt.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered NewDays response to my provisional decision. They have clearly explained 
their own procedures and how they believe that these comply with the FCAs guidance. The 
key guidance here is that assessments should be proportionate and appropriate. These 
may, depending on the circumstances, include some or all of the following:
a) Its record of previous dealings,
b) Evidence of income,
c) Evidence of expenditure,
d) A credit score,
e) A credit reference agency report, and
f) Information provided by the customer.
Its worth me saying that I accept that NewDay likely followed its own processes and 
procedures in making their assessment of the affordability here. But, as with any system or 
process that doesnt involve direct interaction with a customer  there will be occasions 
where this results in an unfair outcome in individual circumstances. Thats what I think 
happened here. I think that some of the factors that CONC outlines could only be reliably 
and proportionately assessed as a result of some more direct interaction with Miss O. But I 
cant see that this happened here. I believe that such interaction was likely to have revealed 
more than the data and statistical information used in this case and wouldve been a 
proportionate step to take.
NewDay suggest that the nature of Miss Os spending habits didnt indicate that she was 
experiencing financial pressures. They also believe that interest shouldnt be refunded for 
certain types of non-discretionary transactions. But again, I cant see that NewDay ever 
knew this for sure or spoke to Miss O about her spending. Seeing how a customer spends 
their money on a card can suggest whether or not they are in financial difficulties. For 
example, if a customer is withdrawing cash from a credit card or paying off other high cost 
credit. But while that may not have been the case here, Miss Os card with NewDay was one 
of several accounts she held. Given all the other factors Ive referenced here and in my 
provisional decision, I think it wouldve been proportionate to have explored Miss Os 
situation further, rather than just relying on what the account conduct showed on face value.
In terms of the proposed compensation, NewDay believe that the award isnt appropriate. 
They say that Miss O had the option to refuse the limit increases but now believes that they 
have caused her distress. In my provisional decision I concluded that I dont believe that 
NewDay completed reasonable and proportionate checks before increasing Miss Os limit. 
So, I think its reasonable to conclude that their actions contributed to Miss Os subsequent 
concerns about her financial difficulties and should be reflected in my decision.
Having considered all of NewDays responses, Im not persuaded to change my original 
view. 
Im aware that Miss O believes that any interest refunded should be paid to her. Particularly 
as she no longer has borrowing with NewDay following its sale to a debt management 
company. 
When interest is charged on a credit card debt, its applied to the credit card account  it isnt 
billed or paid separately. So that means its only fair for me to say that these amounts should be returned back to the card, as that puts Miss O in the situation shed have been in, if the 
interest in question was not paid in the first place. In this case, any refund should be credited 
back to the debt with that is now the debt management company. If this results in the full 
repayment of the debt, any surplus would then be payable to Miss O, plus 8% for the time 
shes been without money she shouldve had.
The compensation for distress is distinct and separate and should be payable to Miss O.
Taking all of this into account, Ive not be persuaded to change my mind here. So, my 
decision will remain as detailed in my provisional decision of 31 March 2021 referenced 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Os complaint.
In order to put things right, I require NewDay Ltd to:
calculate and refund all interest and charges, other than those that would have been 
incurred, had the limit not been increased on and after 23 December 2015,
pay 8% interest on any credit balance that may end up being due to Miss O as a 
result of this,
amend any credit file records reported by NewDay to reflect the debt balance 
reduction from the interest and charges refunded,
pay Miss O £100 to recognise the distress this has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman