DRN-2895217
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how she was treated by BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading 
as Mini Financial Services, (BMWFS), when she wanted to extend her car finance 
agreement.
What happened
 In June 2017, Mrs A acquired a new car which she financed through a 36 month personal 
contract purchase (PCP) with BMWFS. The cash price of the car was £16,130. She was 
required to pay monthly payments of £206 with a final payment of £7,393.
As the agreement was reaching maturity and in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, in June 
2020, BMWFS offered to extend the agreement by three months, from June 2020 to 
September 2020. Mrs A called BMWFS to find out more about this proposed extension, she 
said she agreed to it and was told by BMWFS that she didnt need to do anything further. 
In July 2020, Mrs A received communication that the account was arrears. She contacted 
BMWFS and was told to ignore the letter as she was on a payment deferral plan. Shortly 
afterwards in August 2020, she was told she owed three months of contractual payments. 
Mrs A contacted BMWFS and questioned why payments hadnt been taken despite the 
agreement being extended. She was told the extension wasnt in place but it would be set up 
for her. 
Mrs A complained. BMWFS said the letter concerning the extension outlined manual 
payments would need to be made. They also said they had listened to the call she had with 
their advisor and they were satisfied she was told about the same. However as a gesture of 
goodwill, they agreed to remove the adverse information from her credit file providing she 
brought the account up to date. Mrs A said she hadnt been told about the need to make 
manual payments and she was also unhappy that she was now expected to pay the arrears 
in one lump sum. 
In August 2020, Mrs A cleared in the arrears and in September 2020, she settled the 
agreement in full. BMWFS removed the adverse information from her credit file. 
Unhappy with BMWFS response, Mrs A referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator recommended the case was upheld. They believed BMWFS couldve handled 
the situation better as they had given her incorrect information to disregard the arrears letter 
when she called in July 2020. They also felt it was unfair for BMWFS to say she had to pay 
the three monthly payments in a lump sump when it had been a difficult situation due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. He recommended BMWFS pay £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
BMWFS disagreed. They said the letter about the extension made it clear manual payments 
were required, Mrs A agreed to the same and she spoke to one of their advisors on two 
occasions about the extension. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint, Ill explain why.
  
Mrs A acquired the car under a regulated finance agreement with BMWFS therefore our 
service can look into complaints about it. 
This complaint centres on whether Mrs A was told by agreeing to extend the agreement, she 
would be required to make manual payments. On one hand, BMWFS say she was told in a 
letter and again during a phone conversation. On the other hand Mrs A said she wasnt 
made aware of this.  
To start with, Ive reviewed the letter sent by BMWFS to Mrs A concerning the extension of 
the agreement. At the bottom of page three, where Mrs As signature would be required, it 
says By agreeing to this extension I understand that I will have to make manual payments 
towards my agreement as shown in the schedule above. So when setting out the details for 
the proposed extension and what was required, Im satisfied BMWFS made it clear that 
manual payments would need to be made during the extension period. 
However I understand following the receipt of the same, Mrs A called BMWFS. Its unclear 
whether she didnt understand the contents of the letter or whether she simply wanted 
clarification. Whatever the reason, it was reasonable for her to speak to BMWFS about the 
extension before agreeing to it. Mrs A verbally told BMWFS she wanted to proceed with the 
extension, she didnt sign or return the form. 
BMWFS havent been able to provide our service with a copy of this call due to the length of 
time thats passed so I cant say with any certainty what was said. However I have seen the 
notes made by the advisor and they are brief in nature. It simply says Customer wanted to 
know more info regarding 3 month ext as got email.
When the complaint was initially raised, BMWFS said the call was available, they had 
listened to it and the advisor had provided correct information about the extension. However 
Im not persuaded the advisor specifically told Mrs A about the need to make manual 
payments. I say this because firstly, BMWFS contact notes dont reflect this. Secondly, 
given Mrs A had called to discuss the extension, I dont believe she wouldve ignored or 
forgotten such a key part, that is, the need to make manual payments especially as there is 
no suggestion there had been prior issues with her payment history.
 
Mrs A said at the end of the call after agreeing to the extension, she was told she didnt need 
to do anything further and I think this is likely to be the case, hence why she took no further 
action. So while I accept the extension letter said manual payments were required I think it 
was reasonable for her to rely on what she was told during the phone call with the advisor 
and on balance, I dont think the advisor made it clear this was required. Had they done so, I 
believe Mrs A wouldve acted differently by either making the necessary arrangements for 
the manual payments or simply not agreeing to the extension.
When the account fell into arrears, Mrs A called to speak to BMWFS. Based on the contact 
notes, the advisor told her to ignore the communication about the arrears as she was in a 
payment deferral plan. However this was incorrect information. Although Mrs A had 
previously been told the extension had been set up, it appears it hadnt. Had the advisor 
realised this and correctly identified the reason for the arrears rather than telling Mrs A to 
ignore it, this situation couldve been avoided.Mrs A said having agreed to the extension and in the belief it had been set up, the monthly 
payments would continue to be taken by direct debit as it had been throughout the duration 
of the agreement. I can see why she wouldve thought this especially as she had verbally 
spoken to BMWFS and this hadnt been made clear. 
 
Therefore I can understand why Mrs A was upset by what happened and why she feels so 
strongly about it, especially to then be later told she needed to pay the three months arrears 
in a lump sum while she was struggling financially due to the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. In such situations, I would expect BMWFS to consider Mrs As financial 
circumstances and set up a suitable repayment plan. Based on the contact notes, I can see 
this was offered and Mrs A was advised to contact the collection team to set one up so I 
cant say BMWFS did anything wrong in that regard. I understand the agreement has now 
been settled in full by Mrs A. 
Overall, I believe there were failings by BMWFS and Im not satisfied they treated Mrs A 
fairly in regard to extending the finance agreement. I believe they couldve been more clear 
about the need to make manual payments and she had been given incorrect information 
when the account fell into arrears. 
BMWFS have already removed the adverse information from Mrs As credit file and I believe 
it was fair for them to do so. However Ive considered what Mrs A has said about the upset 
that was caused including being told incorrect information about the arrears, the worry of 
having adverse information on her credit file, the number of calls she made to BMWFS and 
being told she had to pay the arrears in a lump sum during what was already a stressful time 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In light of the same, I agree with the investigator, in addition 
to removing the adverse information from Mrs As credit file, I believe BMWFS should also 
pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold complaint Mrs As complaint.
To put things right, BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial Services 
should:
-Pay £150 compensation to Mrs A for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman