DRN-4118783
The complaint
Miss H, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale agreement (agreement) she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2017 Miss H acquired a used car financed by an agreement from Moneybarn. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss H undertook to make 
59 monthly repayments of £236.82. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£13,972.38 at an APR of 37.2%.
 
Miss H says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough affordability assessment before approving the finance.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Hs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that as Miss H hadnt provided a copy of her credit file in a viewable format 
and copies of all her accounts for the period three months prior to September 2017 for him to 
be able to establish what proportionate checks on the part of Moneybarn might have 
uncovered he couldnt reasonably conclude it did anything wrong in approving the finance.
Miss H didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn and Miss Hs appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, 
regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out 
in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our 
website.
For reasons Im satisfied I dont need to explain  in part because of what I go on to say
below  I dont think Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks. But, without further
information, I cant say that further checks by Moneybarn would, or should, have caused it to
decline Miss Hs application.
Our investigator asked Miss H to supply a copy of her credit file in a viewable format and 
copies of all her accounts for the period three months prior to September 2017 so he could 
try and establish what further (and proportionate) checks by Moneybarn might have 
uncovered about her income, expenditure and her circumstances more generally.
Unfortunately, Miss H hasnt provided this information. And without it I cant reasonably 
conclude that further (and proportionate) checks on the part of Moneybarn would have 
shown the finance to be unaffordable.
I understand this will be disappointing for Miss H. But without evidence that the finance was 
unaffordable at the time it was provided, and that had Moneybarn carried out further (and 
proportionate) checks it would, or should, have realised this, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont have enough information to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman