DRN-2607242
The complaint
Mr A complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him 
irresponsibly. He also complains about the way his complaint was administered. 
  
What happened
Mr A took an instalment loan in March 2018. Ive included some of the information weve 
received about the loan in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £1,000 04/03/2018 28/07/2019
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Satsuma to have granted the instalment loan. He 
thought the checks completed by it went far enough. The adjudicator didnt think Satsuma 
needed to ask for further information, such as bank statements, to support the lending 
decision. So, based on what Mr A said about his circumstances, the adjudicator thought it 
wasnt wrong to lend.
The adjudicator also thought Satsuma had responded fairly to Mr As concerns about the 
way it had administered his complaint. 
In error, Satsuma had acknowledged Mr As complaint to a third party, a claims management 
company. Satsuma apologised for this and sent Mr A £50 in recognition of what had 
happened. I understand Satsuma has also contacted the third party and asked for the 
correspondence to be removed from its records. The adjudicator thought this was a 
reasonable outcome.  
Mr A disagrees with the adjudicators assessment. He says that Satsuma shouldnt have lent 
to him because he had several loans with other lenders which was evident from his bank 
statements. He also says that he paid a lot of interest for this loan Finally, Mr A also doesnt 
think Satsumas response to his complaint about the administrative error is fair. 
 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma had to assess the loan application to check if Mr A could afford to pay back the 
amount he was borrowing without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Satsumas checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments 
and Mr As income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Satsuma should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr A. These factors include: 
Mr A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where a lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that lending may be unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his instalment loan 
 not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr A was able 
to repay his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr As complaint.
irresponsible lending  
Firstly, Id like to address Mr As concerns about the level of interest he had to pay. 
The total amount Mr A was scheduled to repay for his loan was £1,896  meaning the 
interest payable (in addition to the principal of £1,000) was £896. The regulator imposed a 
price cap on this type of loan, the most Satsuma could charge overall being no more than 
100% of the principal. From what I can see, although the loan was repaid later than 
scheduled, Mr A didnt pay any additional interest, fees or charges. The amount of interest 
Mr A paid on this loan was therefore within the price cap. 
So, I dont think the amount charged for the loan was unfair. It follows that Ive not found that 
Satsuma shouldnt have lent because of the level of interest added to the instalment loan. 
The instalment loan was taken out over six months with monthly repayments of £316. Mr A 
declared an income of £1,400 and expenditure of £350 (including £250 in financial 
commitments). Mr As living cost seem very low but Satsuma also carried out a credit check 
and considered as expenses any undeclared credit commitments that it could see together 
with a further buffer. This meant Satsuma used overall expenditure of £722.65 when 
assessing the application and I consider this amount to be reasonable. Considering the level of lending and with no previous lending history, I think the checks went 
far enough. And based on the checks Satsuma completed Im satisfied that the instalment 
loan wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr A was struggling financially and repaying the loan has proved 
difficult. I can see that it took Mr A much longer to repay the loan than scheduled. And I 
accept that Mr As full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the other information Satsuma may have seen in its credit 
checks. And it might be that Mr As actual financial position (including the other lending he 
has said was outstanding) may well have been apparent if further information  such as 
bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Satsuma knew about Mr A, that meant it needed to verify the information. So, I dont 
think that it could or should have known that Mr A was having financial difficulties at the time.
It is of course possible that, had Mr A continued to borrow from Satsuma, then it may have 
needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved asking 
for evidence of his financial position. But considering Mr A took one loan and the loan 
appeared affordable, I dont think Satsuma was wrong to have provided it. 
administrative error
From what Ive seen its clear (and Satsuma accepts) that Mr A will have been concerned 
and upset by what happened. After all, Satsuma disclosed some personal information to a 
third party who had nothing to do with Mr A or Satsuma in connection with his complaint.   
The awards that we may make for trouble and upset are not designed to punish Satsuma for 
its error. Any award we may recommend is designed to reflect the trouble and upset that an 
individual has experienced. Ive also thought about what action has been taken to ensure the 
disclosed information is no longer held by the recipient. Overall, I cant see any lasting harm 
or problem as a result of Satsumas mistake here.
Ultimately, I think Satsumas offer of £50 is fair and reasonable, considering the 
inconvenience that Mr A experienced  which Ive outlined above. I understand Mr A has 
banked the cheque he has received. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for Mr A. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman