DRN-3155680
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of the repairs to her shop front undertaken by Ageas
Insurance Limited following her property owners insurance claim for damage caused by 
impact.
What happened
In August 2016, Mrs M made a claim to Ageas after a third-party vehicle had crashed into
the shop she owned causing damage to the wall and window frame. Ageas accepted the
claim and asked Mrs M to submit a quote from a local contractor for the repairs required. In
September 2016, Mrs M advised Ageas that she was unable to get a quote. So Ageas
appointed its own contractors to scope and undertake the repair. Ageas authorised the
repairs shortly after and was advised by its contractors in November 2016 that they had
been completed.
Mrs M visited the property in December 2016 and was unhappy with the quality of the
repair works to the brickwork as well as with the condensation noted on the inside of the
shop window. Mrs M was also unhappy as she thought that some half-bricks had been used
by the contractors in the repair. So Ageas asked the contractor to return to the property and
look into the issues raised.
Ageass contractor said that the issues raised by Mrs M about the brickwork were incorrect.
It said it had used some of the bricks from the original wall in places and that Mrs M had only
visited the property mid-repair.
In January 2017 there was a meeting at the property between Mrs M and the contractors
during which they sought to reassure Mrs M that the works had been done correctly. In the
meantime, Mrs Ms tenants told her about a leak in the frame, that the walls were wet and
there was condensation in the building. Mrs M provided Ageas with some photographs of the
condensation and said she would wait to hear from it with a solution. And Mrs M raised a
complaint about the quality of the works.
Ageas asked the contractor to respond to Mrs M and it advised that the reuse of bricks
wasnt uncommon and was considered to be safe and cost effective. The contractors also
said the aluminium window frame was a better product and an upgrade to the old wooden
one itd removed. And it said that Mrs M had agreed it could install it. The contractor said itd
also looked into the condensation issue and said Mrs M had latterly agreed that it was an 
issue before the impact incident had damaged the shop. And it said that the condensation 
was caused due to different factors such as there being no ventilation in place as the 
extractor fan wasnt working, the nature of the business of the tenant (a hairdressers and 
beauty salon), and the fact the window was single glazed so condensation couldnt be 
avoided, especially in the winter months.
In June 2017, Mrs M was informed by her tenants that the window glass had cracked
from the top to the bottom whilst the staff and customers were inside the building. Mrs M was
concerned for her tenants staff and customers. She told Ageas that her son was going to
obtain a quote to get the repair works completed which she sent to it in August 2017. The
quote included costs relating to the rebuild of the wall that had already been repaired.
Ageas then appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property and inspect the repair works done
by its contractor. The loss adjuster sent its report to the contractor and asked it to comment
on its contents.
The contractor provided its comments in September 2017 and said it stood by its position
regarding the window frame and the condensation issue. It also responded to an issue
Mrs M had more recently raised issue where she said it had ignored building regulations
when installing the new window. The contractor said that the works didnt come under the
remit of building control because the window was a like-for-like replacement. And, as it
wasnt a domestic property, FENSA wasnt applicable either.
In October 2017, Mrs M confirmed that she was still unhappy with the situation so she said
she was going to appoint a surveyor of her own to inspect the work if Ageas didnt agree with
the estimate shed recently provided. Ageas said it would send a different surveyor to the
premises to discuss the issues with Mrs Ms surveyor. In November 2017, the contractor
reported that all parties at the site meeting agreed that there were no issues with the repairs
to the brick wall. In respect of the cracked glass, it said that an investigation was still ongoing
into what had caused it. Mrs Ms surveyor reported that there was a potential issue with the
window sill sticking out slightly into the doorway recess and that the privacy film on the
window was peeling back in one corner.
Ageas issued its final response letter to Mrs Ms complaint in November 2017 and stated
that it didnt think there were any faults with the repair works its contractors had carried out.
In respect of the cracked window Ageas said this wasnt related to the repairs that had been
undertaken. It also said it was willing to consider the cracked window as a separate claim for
accidental damage if that was what Mrs M required. Ageas also said that if Mrs Mr didnt
agree with the conclusion itd reached, then she could appoint her own contractor to provide
an independent report.
In January 2018, Ageas contractor confirmed to Mrs M that all the works had been
undertaken in compliance with current legislation and that the window frame had been fitted
correctly. But it also said it was willing to visit to remove the side glass and check the
gaskets to make sure they were fitting correctly and to replace the cracked front glass as a
gesture of goodwill.
In February 2018, Ageas received a report from Mrs Ms appointed surveyor which it
forwarded to its contractor for comments. The report had highlighted issues relating to the
window frame and the glass. Although the contractor disagreed with the surveyors
comments, it confirmed that it was still willing to carry out some works to address the issues
raised as a gesture of goodwill.
Ageas reconfirmed its position to Mrs M in March 2018, but no response was received
despite several attempts at contact being made.
In October 2018, Mrs M contacted Ageas to let it know that all the works had been re-done
at a cost of £9660 at the recommendation of her surveyor. Ageas considered that itd been
agreed at the joint site meeting between the two surveyors that the repair works carried out
by Ageass contractors were of a satisfactory standard. And it said itd offered to return to
carry out some minor adjustments but Mrs M had chosen to proceed to carry out the works
without first discussing it with Ageas or obtaining its approval. So Ageas said it didnt think it
was responsible for the additional cost Mrs M had incurred.
Mrs M raised another complaint with Ageas in February 2020 because she felt its
response was unsatisfactory and unacceptable. Ageas issued a further final response letterin July 2020. It said that further to discussions between Mrs Ms tenant, her appointed 
surveyor, and Ageass surveyor/contractor, itd been agreed that the wall was defect-free 
and that the condensation was due to the nature of Mrs Ms tenants business. Ageas also 
said its contractor had offered to re-attend to rectify some of the issues with the window as a 
gesture of good will but Mrs M had instead decided to appoint her own contractor at a cost of 
£9,660 without first obtaining Ageass approval. Ageas declined Mrs Ms complaint and said 
it wouldnt be reimbursing her costs for having the works re-done. Unhappy with Ageass
response, Mrs M complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She
concluded that Mrs Ms surveyors report was more persuasive than any of the evidence that
Ageas had provided so she thought Ageas should cover the costs Mrs M had incurred in 
redoing the works, along with instructing her surveyor, and add interest to both amounts at 
this services usual rate.
Ageas disagreed with our investigators findings and provided us with a detailed response. A
second investigator looked into the complaint and also concluded that he thought the
complaint should be upheld. He also thought that Mrs Ms surveyors findings were 
more persuasive that anything Ageas had said. He said that Ageas hadnt told Mrs M about
the disadvantages of installing a metal frame over a wooden one. Our second investigator
also agreed with the redress recommended by our first investigator.
Ageas replied to say itd provided clear photographic evidence and commentary on the 
quality of the repair. So it said it wanted the complaint referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021; I didnt recommend that it 
was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
With regret for any disappointment this provisional decision will cause Mrs M, I cant fairly or
reasonably uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In reaching this provisional decision, Ive reviewed the following expert evidence:
1. Structural survey report undertaken in mid-October 2017 on behalf of Mrs M. This
report concluded that the side section of the glazed front window had a loose sealant
and a gap was noted between the glazing and the frame. It also noted that the
external window sill on the side return section of the window had a wider overhang
than the sill on the front section of the window and that the edge of the sill was sharp.
The surveyor said the tenant reported that the condensation was worse since the
new window was fitted. The report commented that the repointing on some of the
bricks to the dwarf wall was poor but that it wasnt possible to check how the wall had
been rebuilt due to the render finishing. Finally, the surveyor commented that the
works shouldve been notified to local building control and inspected for approval but
this hadnt happened.
2. Ageas loss adjusters report from early September 2017. This report was carried out 
on behalf of Ageas after Mrs M had complained about the quality of the repairs, the 
lack of building control approval and condensation. The report cast doubt on whether
the window installation was building regulation compliant. It said the recently
appeared window crack couldnt be linked to repairs undertaken by Ageass
contractors. And it said the condensation issues were likely the result of the new
window being made of aluminium (the previous wooden frame could have been
draughty and allowed some airflow in) and the fact the premises were used as a hair
salon which would generate significant moisture. It said the sill had sharp edges that
needed attention and that there was a minor crack in the render beneath the window
of unknown cause.3. Ageass claims handlers report undertaken in November 2017 following an
inspection to review the works. Mrs Ms surveyor was present at the inspection. The
report commented that all parties agreed the wall was defect free regardless of which
bricks were used to rebuild it, that the condensation issue was a result of the nature
of the business, that the internal gaskets between the window and the frame had
come away internally causing the peeling of the privacy film, that the glass in the
doorway return didnt appear to be big enough for the frame so the gaskets were
loose and that the aluminum sill underneath the doorway window return overhung the
wall by 45mm more than the sill along the front of the window and was a potential
hazard.
Its my role to decide whether or not Ageas has treated Mrs M fairly and reasonably in the
way it handled her claim. I have to say that I think it has.
The expert reports Ive set out above all refer to the same issues: condensation, issues with
the side return window, an overhanging sill on the side return, issues with the brick work, a
crack to the front window and finally, whether the works required building control approval.
Condensation
Its accepted by Mrs Ms surveyor that condensation was an issue on the premises prior to
the claim. I understand the property is used as a hair salon from which, its reasonable to
assume, a fair amount of condensation could well be generated without adequate ventilation.
Ive seen mention that the extractor fan in the salon was broken; that would affect the
condensation levels.
I can see that the window was a like-for-like replacement in terms of design  for example
there were no openers. And whilst Ageass loss adjuster commented that the previous
window frame was made of wood (so could potentially have been draughty allowing airflow
in), I note that Mrs Ms surveyor and Ageass claims handler state that there is a gap
between the window and the frame on the new side return (which too couldve let airflow in).
So I accept there appeared to be a problem with condensation in the salon but it isnt clear
that this is a result of any failed repair on the part of Ageas or whether it had always been an
issue. That said, in response to Mrs Ms complaint about the condensation, Ageas offered to
send its contractors back to look at the issue. That seems a fair response to me and I
understand that Ageas made the offer on several occasions. Unfortunately its impossible to
know if Ageass re-attendance at the property wouldve addressed the issue with the
condensation because Mrs M engaged her own contractors to completely re-do the whole
repair without it having the opportunity to do so.
Ageas certainly entered into a contract of repair with Mrs M. And this services position is
that any repair and insurer undertakes should be a lasting one. Sometimes there are issues
that manifest themselves after the repair has supposedly been completed. Providing any
issue is reported within a reasonable time frame (as was the case here) we would expect the
insurer/its contractor to offer to return and, if possible, rectify the issue raised. So I think
Ageass offer to do just that was reasonable. I can see that after it received Mrs Ms survey
report at the very end of January 2018 and offered to return and address the issues raised. It
chased Mrs M for a response (via her broker) on a number of occasions thereafter but no
response was forthcoming. The next it heard from Mrs M was to say shed had the entire
shop front re-done on the recommendation of her surveyor and asking that Ageas reimburse
her.
I dont think I can reasonably require Ageas to pay Mrs Ms invoice for re-doing works which
may not ultimately have been necessary. Ageas had offered to return to the property to tryand address the issues raised and it should, in the first instance, have been afforded the
opportunity to do so. Any re-doing of the works appears to me to be at best premature and at
worst un-necessary. And I cant see that Ageas consented to the repairs being re-done.
the side return window
I can see both Mrs Ms and Ageass experts agree that there was an issue with side return
window not fitting properly into the frame so a gap was noted and that the internal gaskets
between the window and the frame had come loose. I can also see that Ageas offered to
have its contractor return to the property, remove the side glass and check the gasket. That
seems to be a reasonable first step to rectifying this issue to me. But having made the offer
to Mrs M, I cant see that she ever replied but instead proceeded to re-do all of the repairs
without first obtaining Ageass agreement. In the circumstances, I dont think that was
reasonably necessary without first exhausting the options to rectify the issue.
And from Ageass file, I can see that Ageas was sent Mrs Ms surveyors report at the very
end of January 2018. It replied to Mrs Ms broker to say that it would review the content and
revert. It did so at the start of March 2018  offering to return to address the issues raised 
by which time it seems Mrs M had had the works undertaken without first notifying Ageas
that she was intending to do so or waiting for its response.
the overhanging side return sill
From Ageass file I can see that it offered to return and repair the side window and to make
the frame safe. Unfortunately it wasnt given the opportunity to do so. Ive set out above why
Ageass response to the issues Mrs M raised was reasonable.
the brick work
Mrs Ms surveyors comments about the standard of the brickwork undertaken by Ageass
contractors were inconclusive. Ageass claims handlers report noted that all the parties
agreed that the wall was (by the point of the site visit in November 2017) defect free.
So theres no evidence that Ive seen that indicates it was at all necessary to rebuild the
dwarf wall. That means I cant fairly require Ageas to pay for something which cant
reasonably said to have been necessary and which, her broker remarked, Mrs M wanted
undertaken by her own contractor, as opposed to letting Ageas return to try and rectify the
issues.
the cracked front window
Theres no evidence Ive seen that allows me to reasonably conclude that the crack to the
front window pane in the salon was the result of any failed repair on the part of Ageas.
Regardless, however, Ageas offered to return and replace the entire pane as a gesture of
goodwill. I think that was a reasonable response to this aspect of Mrs Ms complaint.
building control approval
In response to our first investigators view, Ageas submitted an email from Mrs Ms local
authority building control manager. It said: I can confirm that the work described, would not
require you to apply to the local authority for Building Regulation approval.
Im satisfied that this email demonstrates that building control approval wasnt required for
the works undertaken by Ageas at Mrs Ms property.
ConclusionIt follows that I dont think this complaint should be upheld. For the reasons Ive given above,
I cant reasonably require Ageas to pay Mrs Ms contractors invoice or the cost she incurred 
in instructing her own surveyor.
Ageas replied to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments to make. 
Mrs M replied to my provisional decision to say she was disappointed and puzzled by it. She 
provided the following comments: 
That I paid no attention to any of the facts provided by her or to the two views produced 
by our two investigators;
Both investigators arrived at a conclusion that was how the situation was;
That she is furious that I said Ageas wasnt given the opportunity to fix the problem;
That Id paid no attention to her tenant and the difficulties she experienced;
How could she be expected to leave her tenant with a boarded-up window when she was 
trying to run a business;
What did I consider a reasonable time frame for the repairs to be rectified within?
It made no sense to allow Ageas to replace the glass when her surveyor concluded the 
repair works itd done were sub-standard;
That her tenant told her Ageas had disconnected her burglar alarm but hadnt informed 
her and that it wasnt until her builder removed the frame that it was discovered;
That Id ignored her surveyors comments about the un-necessary repointing of the 
brickwork which shouldnt have been necessary if the wall had been rebuilt as required;
How could I conclude that all parties agreed that the wall was defect free?
Ive regurgitated Ageass version of events and facts which arent true/
That her complaint has been with this service long enough so she is entitled to have an 
ombudsman look at the facts properly before reaching a decision;
She would rather take Ageas to court if this is the best we can do.
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is typically the case when we look at a complaint that one or other of the parties to it will be 
disappointed with the outcome thats reached; unfortunately thats unavoidable. I fully 
appreciate why, after receiving two views from this service upholding her complaint, Mrs M is 
disappointed by my provisional findings. But this service operates a two-stage complaints 
process. 
The first stage is where the complaint is looked at by one of our investigators. If both parties 
accept the view they reach then there is no need for the complaint to proceed to the second 
stage. But where one of the parties is unhappy with the first-stage outcome then they have 
the right to request an ombudsmans decision; that is what Ageas elected to do with this 
complaint. And I can see that our investigator wrote to both parties to say that the complaint 
was being referred to an ombudsman and that the ombudsman would be looking at 
everything provided and reaching an independent view. 
And that is what has happened with Mrs Ms complaint. I have looked at all the evidence 
provided and Ive reached a different view  for the reasons I gave provisionally  to those 
reached by our investigators. An ombudsman will look at everything afresh and isnt bound to follow the findings of an investigator. And if Mrs M doesnt wish to accept my final decision 
she neednt do so.
I set out in some detail provisionally the sequence of events. And that included Ageass 
review of her surveyors report and its offer to return to the property to address the issues 
raised in early 2018. But before it could do either, Mrs M had had the works re-done by her 
own contractor. 
My understanding is that the window was boarded up between August 2018 and when 
Ageass contractors attended to do the repairs in November 2018 (and it wouldve taken 
some time for the window to be ordered and manufactured). Ive seen no evidence that the 
window was boarded up subsequently such that the tenant was left to conduct her business 
with it in such a condition and which necessitated Mrs M to arrange for her contractor to 
attend and replace it. I understand the replacement window experienced condensation and 
that it cracked but Ive seen no evidence that it was boarded up such that Mrs M felt 
compelled to replace it on behalf of her tenant.
Ive set out provisionally the timeline of events, and specifically, when Ageas attended the 
property to respond to the issues raised by Mrs M. And Ive explained there why I thought it 
addressed Mrs Ms complaints about the standard of repairs undertaken fairly and 
reasonably. 
Whilst Mrs Ms surveyor may have concluded the repairs were substandard, Ageas 
disagreed. Regardless, it offered to return to replace the front pane of glass as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think that was a reasonable offer for it to have made but, as I have set out, by the 
time it did so, Mrs M had had the repairs completely re-done by her own contractor. Im 
unable to agree that it was fair or reasonable for Mrs M to have had all the works re-done 
and to expect Ageas to settle her contractors invoice, without first giving Ageas the 
opportunity to address the issues raised in her surveyors report. 
Whilst I note Mrs Ms comment about the burglar alarm, this is the first time that it has been 
raised. Consequently I cant look at it within the confines of this complaint because to do so 
without Ageas first having the opportunity to address the complaint wouldnt be fair. Mrs M 
should raise a further complaint about this issue if she wishes and Ageas can then consider 
it. If she does, and she is unhappy with its outcome, then she can make a further complaint 
to this service. 
As I explained provisionally, I have taken all the evidence available to me into account in 
reaching both my provisional and this, my final decision. Im not required to comment on 
every aspect of the evidence I see in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision on a 
complaint. I would like to reassure Mrs M that I took her surveyors report into account. 
Similarly, I explained provisionally where I noted that all the parties had agreed the wall was 
defect free. 
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, that now form part of this, my final 
decision, and the reasons Ive given here I dont think this is a complaint that I can fairly or 
reasonably uphold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman