DRN-3712718
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc misled him about the interest rate on an unsecured 
loan he took out. 
What happened
Santander agreed a loan for Mr B in December 2021 via an online application process. The 
loan was for £20,000 to be repaid over five years. 
Mr B said he had taken out the loan to clear an early settlement figure on his car personal 
contract purchase (PCP). He said that Santander advertised the loan on its website with an 
annual percentage rate (APR) of 2.8% and monthly payments of £357 over a five year term, 
but Santander did not make it clear to him the interest rate he would actually be charged. Mr 
B said that he realised when he checked his account statement online a few days later that 
the APR was in fact 6.89%, with monthly payments of £393.11 over five years. Mr B says his 
monthly repayments are now too high and he will end up paying more interest over the loan 
term than he realised. Mr B says that he is stressed and upset about this. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it was clear from its website that the 
advertised rate of interest was a representative rate, not a guaranteed rate. The rate an 
applicant was offered depended on a number of factors. Santander offered Mr B £250 as a 
goodwill gesture but didnt compensate him for the higher cost of his loan. 
Mr B referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They found that Santander didnt mislead Mr B about the interest rate of the loan. 
They also found that Santander hadnt lent irresponsibly. 
Mr B didnt agree with these recommendations. He said that the loan was now affordable for 
him however he wasnt happy to be making the payments. He asked for his complaint to 
come to an ombudsman to review and resolve, and its come to me. As Mr B isnt now 
complaining about the affordability of the loan my decision will deal solely with his complaint 
about the interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Santander, need to abide by. 
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint like this. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of 
this out in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our 
website. I think the main question I need to consider here is whether or not Santander 
provided Mr B with clear, fair and not misleading information about the loan before entering 
into the agreement with him. 
Mr B says that he applied for a loan of £20,000 which Santander advertised as having an 
APR of 2.8% over a five year term. He provided a link to the relevant webpage. Mr B says 
that at no point in his application process was he told that the APR was different to that 
advertised. He also says Santander did not draw his attention to the pre-contract 
agreements it provided. 
Mr B says it wasnt until hed entered into the agreement, used the funds to clear his PCP 
agreement and checked his balance online that he became aware of the actual cost of his 
loan. He says that he was shocked to discover the cost and that he hadnt budgeted for the 
level of monthly payment required.
Let me begin by saying that I am sorry Mr B been upset and stressed about his experience. I 
understand that, although the loan is affordable for him, he doesnt want to continue to pay a 
level of interest that he didnt expect. Having considered everything, I am not upholding his 
complaint. Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mr B wishes and I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for him.    
Ive reviewed the webpage Mr B says he looked at when making his mind up about the loan 
and considered what Santander said about its website. The webpage does show an interest 
rate of 2.8% in a loan calculator, but it calls this a representative rate and explains that this 
is the rate that we must give the majority of accepted customers on loans within the 
promoted tier. The webpage also states that the loan calculator is for illustrative purposes 
only and that your personal circumstances and the loan amount may affect the rate we 
offer.
I think it is clear from the webpage that the APRs shown on the page were illustrative and 
not the actual APR that would be offered to an applicant. I also think its clear that the actual 
APR would depend on an applicants circumstances, and so it wasnt possible to be offered 
a guaranteed rate prior to being assessed for the loan. 
The webpage includes explanatory sections, one of which is entitled Loan rates which 
states that the interest rates shown are those that an applicant might be offered depending 
on the amount borrowed and their personal circumstances. It also states the maximum APR 
that could be offered, which is more than the APR Mr B is paying.
There is a link to a key facts document on the page which states: The APR you will pay 
depends upon the amount you wish to borrow and a credit and affordability assessment 
conducted by us of your individual circumstances and may differ from the advertised 
Representative APR. This document also mentions that applicants should read all the pre-
contractual information and the credit agreement before signing to ensure that it is the best 
product for them. 
Mr B said he applied for the loan on 28 November. He received an email on the 
29 November saying his loan application was being reviewed. He then received an email on 
the 30 November with a link to sign his agreement online. Mr B says I went through to sign 
my agreement, nowhere at this point had I been told of any rate other than 2.8%. I was 
asked by Santander to download documents before clicking continue. Nowhere was it made 
clear that in the documents would be the rate I was offered and that this was actually 6.89%, 
not 2.8%. I proceeded to continue and sign my agreement.
Mr B provided a copy of his loan agreement and I can see that this clearly states on the first 
page that the APR is 6.9% and that his monthly repayments are £393.11. He also provided a 
copy of a Pre-Contract Credit Information document, which also states this information. 
Mr B says that Santander didnt draw his attention to these documents but he has also told 
us that the application process asked him to download the documents before continuing. Altogether, I think Santander provided clear, fair and not misleading information to Mr B 
before he signed the agreement to enable him to make up his mind whether or not it was 
right for him. And so I dont think it got anything wrong which caused a loss to him.
Mr B says he received an email on the 1 December, after hed signed the agreement, saying 
that his application had been accepted and that they could offer me rate of % APR at £ a 
month. There were no values/figures in the email. I thought nothing of this, and again they 
had not taken the opportunity to make it clear that I was being offered 6.89%. Mr B provided 
a copy of this email and there are blanks were the APR and repayment figure should be 
stated. 
Mr B says that Santander missed an opportunity to make it clear what APR he was being 
offered. I can accept that if this email contained the relevant figures then Mr B might have 
had a chance to reject the loan, if he wished to, as he said he hadnt yet used the funds. 
However, as I dont think Santander had given Mr B unclear, unfair or misleading information 
before this I dont think this was a missed opportunity to correct any errors. From everything 
Ive seen Mr B was given the information he needed to make an informed decision about 
taking out the loan and I cant hold Santander to account for his decision to proceed with it.
Santander has offered Mr B £250 as a good will gesture in response to Mr Bs complaint. I 
think this is a fair offer and I am not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Santander UK Plc and 
it doesnt need to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman