DRN-3962506
The complaint
Mr H complains that Godiva Mortgages Limited made an entry on a fraud prevention 
database in connection with a buy-to-let mortgage application he made through a broker in 
October 2021.
What happened
Mr H applied for a mortgage with Godiva through an independent mortgage broker. Godiva 
declined the application and, some months later, Mr H learned that it had also made an entry 
about the application on a fraud prevention database.
On 26 August 2022 Mr H phoned Godiva saying:
hed applied for a mortgage the year before which had been refused, and a marker had 
been put on his credit file about an undeclared conviction,
his broker had told him to speak to Godiva to get it removed,
he was finding it hard to get a mortgage now,
the application form that his broker filled in asked Have you got any unspent 
convictions? to which he put no. Mr H said that was right as the conviction was 
spent in like 2017 or something,
the question Godiva had asked him was unspent and thats what he put down. He said 
he answered it according to the question.
Unhappy with what hed been told Mr H said he wanted to raise a complaint so he could 
refer it to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Godiva spoke to Mr H again on 31 August 2022 as hed called to follow up on matters. In 
that call Mr H was told the marker wouldnt be removed because it was an unspent 
conviction and he hadnt declared it. Mr H:
asked what benefit there was to Godiva of keeping the marker on as it was causing him 
lots of issues,
said he had three other mortgages and didnt disclose anything for those,
asked if it was a typing error from the broker as he said it wasnt him that completed the 
application,
was told that if it was a mistake by the broker then he needed to complain to the broker 
about that, which Mr H didnt want to do as it wouldnt get the marker removed,
said the broker hadnt run it past him and asked why Godiva hadnt checked with him 
directly,
said it was a simple typing error and he wasnt sure what the broker had done as he 
wasnt there when the broker did the application.
On 12 September 2022 there was a further call, this time to deliver the outcome of the 
complaint investigation. Godiva said it couldnt remove the marker as the application form 
had asked if Mr H had any unspent convictions which hed answered no, when he should 
have answered yes. Mr H said:
he didnt review or sign the form,
hed got three other mortgages and for every application he answered that question in 
the way it should be answered,
he was aware that any sentence over four years is never spent, but that wasnt why he 
was making the complaint. He said he was making the complaint because his broker 
didnt ask him that question,
Godiva hadnt confirmed the accuracy of the application, and a financial website was 
prepared to write an article about it,
he wasnt present when the broker made the application and the broker hadnt run it 
past him,
he wasnt even aware the application had been sent and he hadnt heard of Godiva 
before he saw the marker on the fraud prevention database,
he always declares his conviction and his other mortgage lenders are fine with it 
because it isnt fraud related,
his other lenders always ask and he declares it,
it was a new broker he used for this application and the broker didnt ask.
It was left that the call handler didnt think the marker would be removed but that they would 
refer what Mr H had said to a colleague.
Godiva called Mr H again on 16 September 2022. Godiva opened by asking Mr H to confirm 
hed said it was a new broker that hed used; one that he hadnt used before. Mr H replied 
yes. Mr H said he wasnt asked by the broker about unspent convictions and he wasnt 
even aware the broker had applied to Godiva. Godiva said that Mr H should make a 
complaint to the broker, and if the broker was to write to Godiva confirming what Mr H had
said then it could look at things again. Mr H said he didnt think the broker would admit it and 
asked what benefit there was to Godiva of leaving the marker on. Mr H said hed ring him 
(meaning the broker) and see what he says. Godiva asked who the broker was, to which 
Mr H replied [brokers company name], thats all I know.
The final call took place on 21 September 2022:
Mr H said hed spoken to the broker and he wasnt willing to get involved.
Godiva explained that if the broker did what Mr H said then he needed to complain to 
the broker as he was responsible and the potential removal of the marker hinged on 
that.
Mr H asked how long it would take to receive a final response letter from Godiva as the 
financial website was ready to write the article, but wouldnt do anything until hed 
received the response to his complaint.
Godiva asked whether Mr H was going to complain to the broker, and he replied hed 
spoken to the broker and was going round in circles.
He said the financial website said Godiva should have confirmed the accuracy of the 
application and run it past Mr H first. He said Godiva should have confirmed with him 
that he was aware of the application.
Godiva explained it goes off the application the customers broker makes, to which Mr H 
replied it wasnt his broker, it was just a broker hed found online.
The final response letter was issued on 4 October 2022 and Mr H referred his complaint to 
us shortly after.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint. She said she understood why Godiva 
registered the marker at the time, but based on further information Mr H had provided she 
felt he hadnt intentionally provided false information. She felt Godiva should remove the 
marker.Godiva didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023, the findings of which said:
In considering a mortgage application  like all lenders  Godiva will review the application 
and supporting evidence. It considers whether its lending policy is met, but also carries out 
various underwriting checks to confirm the accuracy of what its been told. And where it 
finds something of concern, it may report that to a fraud prevention database. The fraud 
prevention databases enable the sharing of information across the financial services 
industry in the interests of fraud prevention.
On the mortgage application form there was a question Do you have any unspent 
convictions? which was answered No. It isnt now in dispute that answer was wrong. 
Thats because, due to the length of Mr Hs sentence, it would never be considered spent 
under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.
When Mr H complained, Godiva gave him a chance to explain the non-disclosure so it 
could consider whether or not to remove the marker but unfortunately Mr H provided 
different accounts of what had happened.
In the first call Mr H was clear that hed applied for the mortgage, albeit the broker had filled 
in the application. There was no mention, like there was in the later calls, that the broker 
had made the application without Mr H being aware of it. When discussing the question 
Mr H said the answer no was right because the conviction was spent in 2017. He said:
 the question you asked me was unspent. Thats what I put down.
the question you asked me was unspent conviction and I answered it according to 
the question, didnt I? ,and
it said, Do you have any unspent convictions? and I put no.
From these statements I can only conclude that Mr H wasnt disputing that he made the 
application and was aware of the question that had been asked, as he said how he had 
answered it. It also seems apparent from this that Mr H thought hed answered the 
question correctly; that is, he thought his conviction was spent.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as Mr H said that following that call he contacted a 
service that provides information to people with convictions. Ive listened to the call with the 
information service and Im satisfied from what he said that Mr H did make this application, 
and that he had incorrectly said his conviction was spent. At various points in that call Mr H 
said:
I wasnt aware of that. I put it down on a mortgage application [in response to 
being told it would never be spent]
They almost always ask if you I didnt know I thought it was spent you see. They 
just said do you have any unspent convictions and I put no [about applying for 
mortgages]
Im trying to get it removed, but I dont think they will now. [about the marker]
Whilst I can understand why our investigator reached the outcome she did, I think the 
broader picture needs to be considered.Mr H was given an opportunity to tell Godiva in any of the follow up calls that hed made a 
mistake and not realised his conviction would never be classed as spent. Had he done so 
and having listened to the call he had with the information service, I might have told Godiva 
to remove the marker as Mr H hadnt acted dishonestly. But he didnt do that. Instead, he 
gave different reasons for the non-disclosure which clearly contradicted what hed 
previously said.
On 31 August Mr H said he hadnt disclosed anything on his other three mortgages. But on 
12 September he said he had disclosed it to the other lenders, and they were fine with it 
because it wasnt a conviction for fraud.
On 31 August Mr H said it was possibly a typing error by the broker, but he wasnt sure 
what had happened as he wasnt there when the broker did the application. But in the 
original call on 26 August (and in the call to the information service) he was clear that hed 
answered the question, but it had been answered incorrectly due to him misunderstanding 
whether or not his conviction was spent. His later testimony (on 12 September) changed to 
him not even knowing an application had been made which, if correct, is unusual that he 
hadnt mentioned it sooner.
In the call of 12 September Mr H was clear he was aware his conviction was unspent, and 
that wasnt why he was complaining. He said he was complaining because his broker didnt 
ask him the question. But that doesnt tie in with the testimony of 26 August (or the call with 
the information service that same day) that Ive set out above.
Finally, Mr H said in the 12 September call that it was a new broker that he hadnt used 
before. Godiva clarified that statement at the start of the call of 16 September where Mr H 
was asked to confirm what hed said in that it was a new broker he hadnt used before, to 
which Mr H replied yes. But thats not true. Mr H has provided us with a copy of the 
application form for a mortgage he applied for in 2019 with a different lender, and the 
broker that submitted the 2019 application was the same one as he used for this Godiva 
application. Mr H also told our investigator he used that same broker for a 2013 mortgage 
application, albeit Ive not seen that application form.
Despite the discrepancies in Mr Hs testimony Godiva still gave him a final opportunity to 
provide the information it needed to consider removing the marker. It said if Mr H provided 
a letter from his broker which confirmed the broker hadnt asked Mr H the question then it 
would reconsider. Mr H said hed asked the broker but the broker wasnt willing to do so, 
but despite being asked why he hadnt complained to the broker bearing in mind Mr H had 
said the broker had applied for the mortgage without Mr Hs authority and that the broker 
had answered the question incorrectly, Mr H seemed fairly resistant to the idea. 
Mr H has said that Godiva should have confirmed the accuracy of the application with him 
and confirmed that he was even aware of it. But this application came through a 
professional independent mortgage broker, so Godiva had no reason to do either of those 
things. As part of the application submission the broker agreed to the following points:
Each applicant has confirmed that the contents of the application form are true;
You have explained the content of the declaration to each applicant; and
You have obtained each applicants verbal agreement to the terms of the declaration.
Godiva was entitled to accept an online submission from a mortgage broker (without a 
signature from Mr H) and to rely on the information recorded within it as being true. Godiva 
had no responsibility to contact Mr H directly to check if he was aware of the application. 
And if Mr H is saying this application was made without his consent then that is something 
he can take up with his broker directly as Godiva explained.Mr H had the opportunity to explain to Godiva what had happened following his call with 
the information service; that is, hed made a mistake and not understood his conviction 
wasnt spent. Instead he gave different reasons for the non-disclosure, including some 
material falsehoods (such as that this was a new broker hed not used before). Mr H then 
had an opportunity to complain to his broker about what he said had happened, but he was 
resistant to do so. As far as Im aware that complaint still hasnt been made as Mr H has 
made no reference to the outcome of it which I would have expected him to do had a 
complaint been made.
Having taken everything into account, including the original application and all the calls, Im 
satisfied the information Mr H gave across those amounts to a material falsehood, rather 
than an innocent mistake, and Mr H intended to mislead. It follows that Im satisfied Godiva 
acted fairly and reasonably in registering the information it did with a fraud prevention 
database and in not removing the information when Mr H asked it to.
Godiva accepted my provisional decision. Mr H responded to explain how the marker was 
impacting him. He said My only option is to threaten the broker with a complaint to see if he 
is willing to come forward and own this otherwise I think Ill really struggle moving forward.
Five days later the broker sent an email to Mr H, which he then forwarded onto us. The email 
says:
[Mr H] has communicated to me regarding the marker associated with his name and the 
explanation provided for it.
I can verify that I submitted the mortgage application.
[Mr H] had been convicted over 5 years ago and therefore I assumed this doesnt [sic] need 
to be declared as it was over 5years ago, I wasnt [sic] aware any conviction over 4 years is 
never spent. This was only explained to me after the case was declined.
Our investigator passed the brokers email to Godiva for its comments on whether it would 
remove the marker. It declined to do so and so the case has now been returned to me for a 
decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr H has said and provided in response to my provisional 
decision, including the email from his broker. Unfortunately the email doesnt help matters as 
it provides another recollection of events, which doesnt tie in with what Mr H has said.
Theres no dispute that the broker submitted the application, so it is the next section of the 
brokers email that is key.
The broker said that he was aware of Mr Hs conviction but assumed it didnt need to be 
declared as he wasnt aware any conviction of over four years is never spent. 
But that doesnt tally with what Mr H told Godiva in the call on 12 September 2022:
hed got three other mortgages and for every application he answered that question in 
the way it should be answered,
he was aware that any sentence over four years is never spent, but that wasnt why he 
was making the complaint. He said he was making the complaint because his broker didnt ask him that question,
he always declares his conviction and his other mortgage lenders are fine with it 
because it isnt fraud related
his other lenders always ask and he declares it,
it was a new broker he used for this application and the broker didnt ask.
We know Mr Hs previous mortgages had been applied for through the same broker, so it 
follows that if the broker answered that question correctly previously then he would have 
known the correct answer here. 
I wont detail again here all the inconsistencies in what Mr H told Godiva as theyre all set out 
above in my provisional findings. 
As I explained in my provisional decision
Mr H had the opportunity to explain to Godiva what had happened following his call with 
the information service; that is, hed made a mistake and not understood his conviction 
wasnt spent. Instead he gave different reasons for the non-disclosure, including some 
material falsehoods (such as that this was a new broker hed not used before). Mr H then 
had an opportunity to complain to his broker about what he said had happened, but he was 
resistant to do so. As far as Im aware that complaint still hasnt been made as Mr H has 
made no reference to the outcome of it which I would have expected him to do had a 
complaint been made. [whilst we now have an email from the broker, it still doesnt seem 
that a complaint has been made]
Having taken everything into account, including the original application and all the calls, Im 
satisfied the information Mr H gave across those amounts to a material falsehood, rather 
than an innocent mistake, and Mr H intended to mislead. It follows that Im satisfied Godiva 
acted fairly and reasonably in registering the information it did with a fraud prevention 
database and in not removing the information when Mr H asked it to.
Having considered everything again very carefully  including the recent email from Mr Hs 
broker  I dont uphold this complaint for all the reasons given in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman