DRN-1906659
 
The complaint
Miss R says Provident Personal Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Provident provided to Miss R between 
September 2011 and May 2012. Loan 1 was for £200 and was repaid over 50 weekly 
instalments of £7. Loan 2 was for £250 and was repaid over 60 weeks at £7.50 per week. 
Miss Rs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought that whilst Provident should have done further checks, as it wasnt 
clear those checks would show, they couldnt say Provident was wrong to lend to Miss R. 
Miss R didnt agree. She said Provident told her what to write in her income and expenditure 
amounts on the loan agreements so she could get the loans accepted. She also said 
Providents agent was rather intimidating. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Provident has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Miss R about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a weekly income of between £300 and £350. She also declared her 
outgoings were between £45 and £67. 
Miss Rs history of borrowing with this lender was relatively short  she only borrowed from 
Provident twice over an eight-month period. And even though she had to make weekly 
repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the 
information she had declared to Provident. 
Looking at what Ive been given, there wasnt anything in the information she provided which 
ought to have given Provident cause for concern. So, I think it was reasonable of Provident 
to have relied on what Miss R told it. Given this, I think the checks Provident did before 
lending each loan went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it  at this stage  to 
undertake any more in-depth checks. 
Ive noted what Miss R has said about the agent telling her what to put with regards to her 
income and outgoings  so she could be approved for the loan. But I havent seen enough 
evidence to uphold Miss Rs complaint on that basis. Miss R signed in agreement that the 
information she had provided to Provident was true. 
So, whilst the information Miss R declared to Provident at the time of the loan may not have 
been an accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, I think Provident was entitled to 
rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Provident knew 
about Miss R, I wouldnt have expected Provident to verify the information Miss R gave it. 
This therefore means, I cant say that Provident have done something wrong in lending    
Miss R these loans.
Ive considered everything Miss R has told us  including what she has said about feeling 
intimidated by Providents agent. But she hasnt said what exactly the agent did or said to 
make her feel this way. Thats understandable given the time thats passed. I can accept that 
having an agent in someones home can feel daunting or uncomfortable but that isnt the 
same as being intimidated into doing something against someones will. Overall, I havent 
seen enough to uphold this complaint only on what Miss R has said. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Miss R. But I hope my explanation will 
help her to understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-WilliamsOmbudsman