DRN-1744774
The complaint
Mr F complains that Experian Limited incorrectly recorded a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
that was in his name on his sons credit file.
What happened
Last year Mr F complained to Experian that a CCJ that should have been reported on his 
credit file was reported on his sons instead. Experian responded to Mr Fs complaint on 
23 October 2019 and apologised for the error. Experian took steps to amend Mr Fs sons 
credit file and completed a disassociation process, so the two credit files are not linked. 
Experian apologised to Mr F and sent him a cheque for £200. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She thought 
Experian had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr F said 
the £200 settlement failed to act as a deterrent and that the error had affected his wellbeing. 
Mr F asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr F is unhappy. Mr F has raised reasonable concerns about how his 
information has been used. He says Experian has breached GDPR. We are an informal 
dispute resolution service and its not our role to say whether Experian has breached the 
regulations surrounding how information is handled. Thats the responsibility of the 
Information Commissioners Office. As a service, we can look at whether a consumers 
information has been shared incorrectly and how that has impacted them. 
All parties agree Experian incorrectly reported Mr Fs CCJ on his sons credit file. Experian 
says the situation came about due to a systems error and Im satisfied thats the case. I can 
see, once notified, that Experian took swift action to correct its error and disassociate Mr F 
from his son on their credit files. The error has now been resolved. 
Ive focused on whether the £200 Experian sent Mr F fairly reflects the impact of its error on 
him. Mr F has told us about the difficulties his son experienced obtaining credit for around 
two years. But I cant compensate Mr F for the way Experians error impacted his son. Mr F 
has also told us he wants the settlement Experian pays to act as a deterrent against future 
GDPR breaches. But thats not how the Financial Ombudsman Service awards 
compensation. We cant fine or punish a business for an error, we can only make an award 
based on the mistakes impact on a consumer. 
In this case I can see how upset Mr F is at what happened, and I dont doubt that it caused 
difficulty within the family when his son found out about the CCJ. I can also see that the 
situation has been inconvenient for Mr F. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr F has sent us explaining how the problem affected 
him. Having done so, Im satisfied the £200 Experian sent Mr F fairly reflects the impact of its 
error on him. The £200 Experian sent is very much in line with the award I would have made 
had no settlement been offered. 
As Experian took steps to amend the incorrect information it reported and has paid Mr F a 
fair settlement, Im not telling it to take any further action. If Mr F hasnt deposited the cheque 
Experian sent him and still wishes to accept, he can contact it directly to request a 
replacement.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Experian has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman