DRN-2915697
The complaint
Mr G complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) was 
irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr G was provided with a loan for £600 by Savvy in November 2020. It was repayable over 
12 monthly instalments of £100.
Mr G says that had adequate checks been carried out before the loan was provided, Savvy 
would have seen that he had several other loans outstanding (including two loans that were 
provided a few days before his application was accepted), was overdrawn and had a 
gambling problem. He says that the loan caused him financial difficulty and should never 
have been considered sustainably affordable for him.
Savvy says that before the loan was provided it carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment. It says Mr G provided two pay slips showing income of £1,642 and £1,672 and 
that the lower figure was used in its assessment. It asked Mr G about his expenses and 
these were recorded, and the debt repayments amount was taken from his credit file. It says 
the credit check carried out didnt raise any concerns that required further checks to take 
place.
Savvy says that based on its assessment Mr G had a monthly disposable income of £380 
and so the monthly loan repayments of £100 were affordable. 
Mr G didnt accept Savvys response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that further verification was 
required based on the information Savvy received and didnt find that this information 
suggested the loan was unaffordable.
Mr G didnt accept our adjudicators view. He didnt agree that the checks carried out by 
Savvy were sufficient and said that it wasnt enough to rely on the statements of income and 
expenditure provided by him and that further verification should have taken place. He 
reiterated that had further checks happened, Savvy would have seen the loan shouldnt have 
been provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G was provided with only one loan by Savvy and before this an affordability and credit 
check took place. Mr G provided payslips to show his income for August and September 
2020 and the lower amount was used in Savvys assessment. I find this reasonable. Mr G 
was asked about his expenses and a credit check was carried out to establish the amount 
he was paying towards other credit commitments. Based on the information gathered, the 
loan appeared affordable.
I understand the points Mr G has made about taking out other loans shortly before the Savvy 
loan was approved. However, I have looked at the results from the credit check carried out 
by Savvy and this didnt show the loans Mr G has noted. This may because the credit file 
hadnt been updated with those loans. While I appreciate that Mr G thinks further checks 
should have taken place at this time, I do not find that the credit check raised concerns that 
meant further investigation was required.
I can see from the information Mr G has provided that he was gambling at the time of the 
loan. Savvy asked Mr G about gambling on the affordability assessment call and he 
confirmed he didnt gamble. I understand Mr Gs comments about this and that he thinks 
further checks would have shown his gambling. However, having considered the size of the loan and repayment amounts compared to Mr Gs income, that this was only Mr Gs first loan 
with Savvy and noting the results of the affordability and credit checks, I find the checks 
carried out were proportionate and I do not think Savvy was required at this stage to ask for 
further evidence  such as bank statements.
As the information received and checked by Savvy suggested the loan was affordable, I do 
not find I have enough to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman