DRN-2136361
The complaint
Mr R has complained that a substantial part of his home insurance claim has been declined.
What happened
Mr Rs home was burgled in December 2018 and several high value items were stolen. He 
contacted Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) to make a claim under his home insurance 
policy. In this decision, all references to Ageas include its claims handlers, intermediaries 
and any other appointed representatives.
Mr R says there were delays in Ageas dealing with the claim and that he was passed from 
one person to another throughout the process. Eventually, Ageas declined a substantial part 
of the claim and said it wouldnt pay out for any valuables which had been stored in Mr Rs 
safe. It told Mr R this was because of an exclusion in the policy, which required the safe to 
be properly secured to the home. Ageas explained that Mr Rs safe was attached to his 
wardrobe and that it didnt think this was the same as securing it to the home. So its final 
response was that the method of securing the safe didnt meet the requirements of Mr Rs 
policy, even though Mr R says the wardrobe was also fixed to the wall.
Mr R was unhappy with the final response and told Ageas it had misapplied the policy 
exclusion. He also says Ageas made implications about his character and that this added to 
the overall distress hed experienced as a result of the burglary. Dissatisfied with the whole 
process, Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and came to the conclusion that Ageas hadnt 
acted unreasonably in relying on the policy exclusion. Mr R remained unhappy and so the 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where the evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
My role here is to determine whether Ageas has acted reasonably in declining part of Mr Rs 
claim. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and Im 
satisfied that Ageas has applied the policy exclusion fairly. I realise Mr R will be extremely 
disappointed with my decision, but Ill explain why I wont be upholding this complaint.
It was Mr Rs responsibility to show that the insured event  the burglary - had happened, 
and Im satisfied he did. Ageas hasnt disputed this. But because it declined a large part of 
the claim, it was Ageass responsibility to demonstrate that a policy exclusion applied. Ageas 
has relied on the following policy exclusion:
This insurance does not cover theft of jewellery from the home unless the jewellery 
is kept in a locked safe, which is permanently attached or secured to the home.
The above clause is included in Mr Rs policy schedule in a section entitled Endorsements 
attaching to and forming part of this insurance. An endorsement is a significant term which 
affects the cover under the policy. And these are usually included in the policy schedule 
rather than in the often lengthier policy wording document. So Im satisfied the clause was 
sufficiently highlighted in order to bring it to the policy-holders attention.
Mr R says his safe was bolted to a free-standing wardrobe. He also says the wardrobe was 
affixed to the wall. He has argued that this wardrobe constituted part of the home and has 
pointed out that the policy does not specify that the safe would need to be secured to an 
external wall in order for the exclusion not to apply.
Ageas has explained that while the term home is not specifically defined in the policy 
schedule, attaching a safe to a piece of furniture such as a wardrobe cannot constitute 
securing it to the home. So its for me to decide whether thats a fair interpretation of the 
policy wording.
In doing so, Ive considered that Mr R describes his safe as weighing around 100kg. Looking 
at industry standards for the installation of safes of this type, Ive noted that its common for 
reputable safe manufacturers and suppliers to recommend that their safes are properly 
installed into external walls or floor joists by the customer or by a professional. Many 
companies also offer a professional installation service. It is generally not recommended that 
safes are bolted only to wardrobes. However, I accept that Mr R may not have been given 
such advice when acquiring or installing the safe.
Ive then considered the wording of the exclusion clause in the policy schedule. Although the 
word home is not defined in the policy schedule itself, Ive looked at the definition of 
Home in the main policy document. This defines Home as:
The private dwelling and the garages and outbuildings used for domestic purposes 
at the premises shown in the schedule, which you are legally responsible for.
Considering this definition, which I think can be reasonably interpreted to mean the buildings 
and structures to which it refers, I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to say that fixing 
the safe to a wardrobe would not meet the definition of permanently attaching or securing it 
to the home.
Ive also considered the likely definition of permanently within the policy schedule. I think 
its important to note that the apparent intention behind these types of exclusion clauses, and 
the intention behind bringing them to a policy-holders attention, is to prevent the very 
scenario in which thieves are able to (with or without the use of force) remove a safe from 
the home. Mr R says the burglars had specialist equipment, and I dont dispute this. But I 
think its likely it wouldve taken considerably less time and force to remove the safe from the 
wardrobe, than from the wall or floor. Theres also not enough evidence to show how the 
wardrobe was fixed to the wall, so I cant safely say that bolting the safe to the wardrobe 
alone would constitute it being permanently secured to the home. And Im not persuaded 
that had the safe been properly installed into an external wall or floor joist (or both), it 
wouldve still been removed with the equipment the burglars had. 
I therefore think its fair in this case for Ageas to maintain that the meaning of permanently 
attached or secured to the home is that the safe shouldve been properly fixed to an 
external structure of the home. If it had been, and had the burglars still been able to remove it, as Mr R says they wouldve, then I think Ageas wouldve paid out for the valuables in it. It 
follows that I dont think Ageas has applied the policy exclusion unfairly in these particular 
circumstances.
Mr R has said there were delays in handling the claim, and I agree it took longer than it 
shouldve on occasion for Ageas to get back to Mr R. But I dont think Mr R has lost out 
entirely as a result of those delays, or that the delays were substantial, so I wont be asking 
Ageas to do anything further.
I do sympathise considerably with Mr R and his wife, who have clearly been victims of a very 
traumatic and distressing event. And I appreciate they will be deeply disappointed with my 
decision. However, based on all the evidence Ive seen, and for the reasons Ive given, Im 
unable to say Ageas has acted unreasonably here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman