DRN-4128521
The complaint
Miss C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin), contributed 
to a delay setting up her ISA which caused inconvenience, distress and a loss of interest.
What happened
Miss C held an ISA with Virgin. In December 2022, she moved her funds to an ISA with 
another bank (which I will call Bank A) who had a better interest rate. However, in the 
cooling off period, Virgin improved their interest rate and Miss C changed her mind.
Virgin subsequently set up a new ISA for Miss C on 25 January 2023 and, as Miss Cs funds 
were with Bank A, Virgin requested the funds back.
However, the funds were delayed and not credited to Miss Cs ISA with Virgin until 5 April 
2023. Miss C says this delay, together with uncertainty about the location of her funds, 
resulted in lost interest, distress and inconvenience when chasing the matter up with both 
Bank A and Virgin.
Miss C complained to Virgin, but they said the delay crediting the funds was because they 
hadnt been received from Bank A. However, Virgin acknowledged their service shouldve 
been better and credited Miss C with £50 compensation.
Miss C complained to our service in March 2023, prior to the funds being credited, as she 
wanted to get the funds back and interest backdated.
Miss Cs funds were later credited and, with facilitation from our investigator, Virgin offered 
an additional £50 compensation. Furthermore, they confirmed that backdated interest would 
be credited as part of their standard procedure and paid into the ISA as detailed in the 
product terms and conditions. They explained that this would have been applied to the 
account regardless of the complaint and re-confirmed the delay was caused by Bank A.
Miss C remained dissatisfied. This is because Virgin wont agree to her request for early 
payment of the interest, for the period 25 January to 5 April 2023. So, this case has been 
passed to me to consider. However, our investigator considered Virgins offer to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
As Miss C remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that Virgin have taken responsibility for their mistake. Theyve apologised 
for their service and communication deficiencies, offered compensation and, regarding 
interest, explained that Miss C wont suffer any interest disadvantage due to the delay 
receiving her funds from Bank A.
I do have sympathy with Miss Cs experience and understand the worry she wouldve felt for 
a number of weeks, not knowing where her funds were and whether she was losing interest. 
Whilst it is clear Virgins service and communications caused both inconvenience and 
distress, I am mindful of evidence which shows that the delay was caused by Bank A. So, 
when considering Virgins compensation offer and their assurance that Miss C will not 
receive any interest disadvantage, I do consider it to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I note that due to a loss of confidence in Virgin, Miss C has requested that Virgin make an 
early payment of the interest her funds wouldve earned for the period 25 January and 5 
April 2023.
I can fully understand this, and I have given this request careful consideration. However, this 
service is unable to recommend alterations to a business procedure. Also, regardless of the 
delay being caused by Bank A, Virgin have made a commitment to pay interest from 25 
January although, because of their ISA standard procedure, it cant be an immediate 
payment. 
Having considered all the information from both sides here, Im of the same opinion as our 
investigator  that Virgins offer of £100 is a fair and reasonable amount of redress and I 
wont be asking them to do anything else.
So, Im upholding this complaint and asking Virgin to pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin), should pay Miss 
C £100 redress, including any amounts it has already paid in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman