DRN-2861183
The complaint
Miss M, through a representative, says UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss M took out three instalment loans from UK Credit. They were guarantor loans so they 
were given on the basis she had a guarantor who would be responsible for making the 
repayments if she failed to. A summary of her borrowing follows.
loan taken out value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 03/09/2014 3,000 36 170.20 6,127.20
2 11/09/2015 4,000 48 179.85 8,632.80
3 11/10/2016 6,000 60 251.08 15,064.80
Loans 2 and 3 were used in part to repay loans 1 and 2.
Miss M says UK Credit failed to carry out effective affordability checks, and had it done so 
would not have lent to her.
Our investigator said Miss Ms complaint should be upheld in part. She found the checks for 
loan 1 were not proportionate, but said better checks would not have shown the loan to be 
unaffordable. So UK Credit was not wrong to give loan 1 to Miss M. For loan 2 she again 
found the checks were not proportionate. But even based on the information it had gathered 
UK Credit ought to have realised it was likely the loan would not be sustainably affordable. 
And she made the same finding about loan 3. So she concluded UK Credit was wrong to 
give loans 2 and 3 to Miss M.
Miss M replied saying she agreed with this assessment. UK Credit said it did not agree with 
the findings about loans 2 and 3. It said, in summary:
The investigators assessment focused only on the credit reports, not on UK Credits 
affordability calculations that showed Miss M would have surplus money each month: 
it had conducted thorough income and expenditure checks; 
Miss M was able to save indicating she had spare money, on the extract from a bank 
statement used to check income it saw she also had a significant level of 
discretionary spend;
Without sight of all relevant bank statements there is no evidence Miss M was under 
financial duress, only assumptions;
Miss M would not have been obliged to make more than token repayments on 
defaulted debt, equally some of Miss Ms defaulted accounts may not have been 
updated but she had told it she was making monthly payments - between 2016 and 
September 2020 she reduced her total defaulted debt;
Whilst Miss M had accumulated new and negative credit between loans 1 and 2 this 
was caused by an unexpected drop in income as her employer muddled up her sick 
and maternity pay, not by permanent or ongoing issues with affordability;
Similarly, the negative credit between loans 2 and 3 could be explained by Miss M 
not returning to work immediately after her maternity leave ended;
And Miss M made all her contractual repayments.
UK Credit asked for an ombudsmans review so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The regulations, rules and guidance that were in place when UK Credit lent to Miss M
obliged UK Credit to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss M could afford to repay
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss M. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss M, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Miss Ms loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the
loans in a sustainable way?if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make fair lending decisions?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As both parties are now in agreement about loan 1, I will focus on loans 2 and 3 here. 
UK Credit asked for some information from Miss M before it approved the loans. It asked for
details of her income and living costs. It verified her salary and benefits using payslips and 
screenshots from her online banking. It checked her credit file to understand her credit 
history and her existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of the loans, the 
second was for home improvements and the third was for a car. From these checks 
combined UK Credit concluded Miss M had sufficient monthly disposable income for loans 2 
and 3 to be affordable.
I am not wholly persuaded the checks were proportionate given the stage in the lending 
relationship and the term of the loans. Miss M would need to be able to make her 
repayments over a four- and five-year period. So I think it would have been important to 
understand and verify Miss Ms actual living expenses. However, even from the information it 
gathered, I dont think UK Credit made fair lending decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 2
Miss M returned to increase her borrowing from UK Credit 12 months into the 36-month term 
of loan 1. 
UK Credits affordability assessment showed Miss M would have monthly disposable income 
of around £580. 
UK Credit could see from its credit check that Miss M had defaulted on a mail order account 
which was over its limit in September 2015. She was also over her limit on four credit cards 
and had missed payments on each account. Two of these accounts had only been opened 
in the previous seven months. So UK Credit could see Miss M had failed to meet her existing 
commitments during the last four months. And as it knows one of the things it needed to be 
sure was that Miss M would be able to repay its loan whilst maintaining all existing 
commitments. Something she was already failing to do  the recorded delinquent date on 
the mail order account was just days before.
UK Credit asked about this adverse data on the security call. Miss M explained there had 
been a mix up with her pay from work when she was off sick and then went on maternity 
leave. And that this was now all resolved.
But I dont think UK Credit got the assurances it needed that Miss Ms financial difficulties 
were solely caused by this. As she confirmed her salary issue had been resolved, it seems 
curious she would have let the mail order account default just days before. And that she had 
entered into arrangements-to-pay on her credit cards rather than bringing them up-to-date 
now the salary mix up was sorted. 
In the round I think it was wrong for UK Credit to lend to Miss M when it was aware she 
wasnt making her contractual repayments on existing agreements. 
I know UK Credit argues that finding Miss M was under financial duress is assumptive 
without sight of bank statements, but I disagree. It is based on the recent adverse entries on 
her credit file  and the fact Miss M had so recently defaulted on an account showing she 
was most likely still having problems managing her money. Otherwise I think it is most likely 
she would have taken steps to prevent this happening.It says that the extract from Miss Ms bank statements show she was saving and so clearly 
had surplus income, but the transactions it references add up to less than £10. I dont think it 
can fairly rely on this as robust enough evidence of financial stability to counter the cards 
that were over limit and in arrears. It also pointed to Miss Ms discretionary spend but I am 
uncomfortable with it reaching any conclusions from what is no more than a few days of 
transactions. 
It also said the investigators assessment focuses on the creditworthiness, and not the 
affordability. But UK Credit was required to do more than check the pounds and pence 
affordability and I think in the circumstances of this case the credit history is key. To meet its 
obligations UK Credit had to check the loan was sustainably affordable which CONC 
5.3.1(G) 6 defined as, amongst other things, being able to meet other reasonable 
commitments. And Miss M was already failing to do this.
It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to give loan 2 to Miss M.
Loan 3
By the time Miss M applied for loan 3, 11 months into the 48-month term of loan 2, the credit 
check showed further evidence of financial difficulties. She had defaulted on four accounts 
during 2016 and her active credit card was over its limit, had been in arrears and was now in 
an arrangement-to-pay. So for she was clearly already having problems managing her 
money, being unable to meet her existing contractual credit commitments.  Again, I note the 
lender asked about this adverse data and Miss M explained it was due to her reduced 
income whilst on maternity leave. But I cant see it asked for any information to understand 
how her income had fluctuated and to make sure that was a plausible reason for her 
financial problems. 
This was Miss Ms third application for high-cost credit in as many years, each time 
increasing the loan value and term of the loan. By this stage I think UK Credits decision to 
lend prolonged Miss Ms reliance on high-cost credit which would have been financially 
harmful to her. 
UK Credit also argues that Miss M made all her repayments, and an updated credit report  
shows her defaulted debt has reduced between 2016 and September 2020. But it does not 
know how Miss M has met her repayments and reduced her default balances, so I dont find 
this to be a persuasive reason to change my conclusion.
It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to give loan 3 to Miss M.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Miss M to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on two loans that shouldnt
have been given to her. So she has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things right.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money the Miss M received as a result of being given 
loans 2 and 3. The repayments Miss M made should be deducted from this amount. 
As reworking Miss Ms loan accounts will result in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ms complaint in part in relation to loans 2 and 3.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman