DRN-3355777
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax will not allow them to
transfer their savings to a higher interest paying account and Halifax have been paying them
a poor rate of interest.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H say they have had accounts with Halifax for over 20 years. Mrs and Mr H
moved overseas so that they can be close to Mrs Hs family. Mrs and Mr H say that the
interest rate they have been receiving on their savings account is 0.01% and they wanted to
transfer their accounts to an account paying a higher interest rate, however, because Halifax
made a business decision to not offer accounts to customers who live outside the UK in
2014, they are effectively trapped in the account.
Mrs and Mr H received correspondence from Halifax regarding their savings account, which
let them know that they offer a range of accounts, with some of them offering a higher
interest rate.
Mrs and Mr H complained to Halifax, who initially did not uphold their complaint. They said
they would be unable to open a new account for Mrs and Mr H as they lived overseas.
Halifax apologised if Mrs and Mr H were frustrated by the correspondence they sent them
regarding the correspondence they sent them, but they said that as they hold accounts with
Halifax, then automatic mailings such as reviewing their savings will be sent, whether they
live in the UK or not. But this does not mean that they are able to offer them a new rate.
Halifax said if Mrs H and Mr H wished to renew or open a new account, they would need to
speak to the international banking department and gave them the telephone number. Halifax
later partially upheld the complaint and paid Mrs and Mr H £75, as they had told them
conflicting information about them changing accounts. Halifax confirmed that as Mrs and Mr
H were living in a country that they didnt operate new accounts in, then it was not possible
to change their account.
Mrs and Mr H brought their complaint to this service. Mr H explained his health problems in
depth and told our investigator that they would now be open to move their accounts to the
international accounts and asked if our investigator could contact Halifax to arrange this.
Our investigator put Mr Hs request to Halifax, but Halifax confirmed that their international
department is currently unavailable to offer facilities to residents of a number of countries,
including the country Mrs and Mr H reside in.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs and Mr Hs complaint. He explained that it is ultimately a
decision for a business what interest rates they offer and if they wish to allow new accounts
or changes to existing accounts to be completed. He was unable to reasonably conclude
that Halifax made an error in declining Mrs and Mr Hs request to change their accounts.
Mrs and Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. Mr H says he had found
Halifaxs savings conditions dated 2 September 2016, which states that their accounts are
for personal customers in the UK. He also says that he wants us to investigate his complaint
about the interest rate they are receiving if Halifax dont agree to his remedy of transferring
his accounts. He also says that the terms and conditions show a joint account holder can
replace an account or service with another account or service covered by their general
conditions.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr H has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
At the outset Id emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I
must be clear to Mrs and Mr H from that outset that Ill be unable to tell Halifax to transfer
their accounts when it is not their procedure to, or to change the interest rate of the accounts
they hold.
I have considered what Mrs and Mr H asked Halifax to do by transferring their accounts to
the international service which Halifaxs final response letter refers them to. But
unfortunately, as Mrs and Mr H do not reside in one of the countries where they currently
offer this service, Halifax are unable to do this. Halifax have paid Mrs and Mr H £75 for
giving them conflicting information about changing their account.
Im persuaded this is fair. I say this as it recognises the impact the conflicting information
may have had on Mrs and Mr H. Im persuaded that this would have gave Mrs and Mr H
hope that they could have changed their account, only to find out that they cant as Halifax
dont operate in the country Mrs H and Mr H reside in.
Ive read what Mrs and Mr H have said about the interest rate they are currently getting.
They feel it is nominal and that they are trapped in the account paying 0.01%. I can
sympathise with them that their options are very limited with what they can do and especially
given their personal and health situation currently. But Halifax have made a business
decision to offer the rate of interest they have chosen to do so, and as Ive previously
explained, Im unable to tell Halifax what interest rate to pay their customers.
I know that Mrs and Mr H have been loyal customers to Halifax. But if Mrs and Mr H are
dissatisfied with the interest rate they are receiving, and Halifax arent able to accommodate
their requests to transfer their accounts to another account, then Mrs and Mr H should be
able to either close their accounts down, and open accounts with another financial institution
which may be able to meet their needs better, or, they may wish to transfer/withdraw the
majority of the money in the accounts to another account with another company, if there is a
reason it would be still beneficial to keep an account open with Halifax (as long as they still
meet the terms and conditions of the Halifax account), for example if its beneficial to have
the income paid into a sterling current account.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about the 2016 savings terms and conditions. I can see
his savings account was opened in 2009, so he would have needed to meet the terms and
conditions of the account when this was opened. Although Halifax did make the decision to
stop offering accounts to overseas customers in 2014, they made the business decision toallow customers who already had accounts with them, to allow them to still operate these
accounts. So while the 2016 terms and conditions (and the latest terms and conditions) state
that their accounts are for personal customers (which Mrs and Mr H would be classed as),
resident in the UK, Im not persuaded that Halifax have done anything wrong by allowing Mrs
and Mr H to keep their accounts open, even if they do not reside in the UK.
Although Mr H has said that Halifaxs terms and conditions show a joint account holder can
replace an account or service with another account or service covered by their general
conditions. It is part of Halifaxs current terms and conditions that an account holder must be
resident in the UK for them to open an account with Halifax. Replacing an account would
involve closing an account, then opening a new account, so for the reasons already
explained, this wouldnt be possible. So I dont intend to ask Halifax to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Halifax accepted my provisional decision. Mrs and Mr H responded to my 
provisional decision and they made several points. In summary they said Halifax hadnt 
mentioned a current account to them, Halifax state they are unable to open an account for 
them but they do not wish to open an account for them as they are putting profits before their 
customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs and Mr H has said about Halifax not mentioning a current account. 
But I had mentioned in my provisional decision that Halifax arent able to meet their request 
to transfer Mrs and Mr Hs account to another account with them or their international 
department. So I suggested that if Mrs and Mr H were dissatisfied with the interest rate then 
they could open a current account (or savings account) with a separate financial institution. 
Unfortunately, as an impartial party, Im unable to make recommendations on which financial 
institutions in the UK (if any), or overseas may be able to service Mrs and Mr Hs banking 
needs better than Halifax. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to recommend other financial institutions accounts to Mrs and Mr H. 
I say this as I wouldnt expect them to be familiar with all of the terms and conditions of other 
companies accounts. So I cant say that Halifax have done anything unreasonable by not 
recommending other companies who may be able to service Mrs and Mr Hs needs better.
Ive considered what Mrs and Mr H have said about Halifax not wishing to open an account 
for them and they are putting profits before customers. Ive noted the strength of feeling 
which Mrs and Mr H have on this issue, however, our service is unable to tell a business to 
change their business or commercial decisions, so this is not something which falls under 
my remit.
In summary, Mrs and Mr Hs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs and Mr H will be 
disappointed with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman