DRN-2698720
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Next Retail Limited (Next) didnt give her enough information when 
she made a purchase using the Next3Step credit facility.
What happened
In March 2018, Miss H opened a pay as you go cash account with Next. She used this 
account to make purchases until July 2020, when she bought a sofa using Next3Step  a 
credit facility which allowed her to spread her repayments over three months and not incur 
any interest charges.
Miss H asked Next to close her Next3Step account once shed repaid the cost of the sofa. 
She raised a complaint when she realised theyd closed her pay as you go cash account 
instead of the Next3Step account.
She was unhappy she couldnt see her online history for her previous orders. She says Next 
wasnt clear about the consequences to her pay as you go cash account when she applied 
for Next3Step.
Next explained that when Miss H signed up for Next3Step, her existing pay as you go cash 
account was converted to a credit facility. And once the account was closed, it couldnt be 
accessed online. They apologised if this wasnt clear and said theyd consider her feedback.
They clarified it wasnt possible to reactivate or convert it back to a pay as you go cash 
account, but Miss H could open a new account to continue shopping online. They sent her a 
£50 gift card as a way of apology. They explained they hold information for six years, so if 
Miss H needed any order details, they could arrange to send this to her.
Miss H referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator felt Nexts offer to send Miss H 
information about her past orders when she needs it, along with £50 compensation, was fair 
and reasonable for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Next have given us screenshots which show the information Miss H wouldve seen when she 
signed up to Next3Step. Amongst other things, this included important information about the 
account, the pre-contract credit information, the credit agreement etc. 
There doesnt appear to be any information which indicated that the pay as you go cash 
account would be converted to Next3Step. I dont think Next made this clear, so it wasnt 
unreasonable for Miss H to believe that Next3Step was a separate credit account.
Miss H has told us she wouldnt have signed up for Next3Step if this was properly explained 
and she wants her order history to be restored. Next have explained they cant reactivate the 
order history or restore Miss Hs pay as you go cash account. So, Ive looked at whether 
Next have done enough to put things right.
I appreciate that in the unfortunate event Miss H needs to claim on her warranty or home 
insurance policy, she doesnt have access to her pay as you go cash account order history. 
But Next have offered to send her proof of purchase, if she needs it. 
I realise this is still inconvenient for Miss H as shell need to contact Next to ask for the order 
details when she requires them. But given that the pay as you go cash account cant be 
restored, I think Next have offered a fair solution here, particularly since she may never need 
it.
Miss H has said that Next havent accepted her suggestions  to provide transparent 
information on how the accounts are set up, consider keeping the pay as you go cash 
account and Next3Step accounts separate and/or allow customers the option to keep their 
order history.
Its not the role of our service to review Nexts processes more broadly or if they should be 
changed. Instead my focus is to look at Miss Hs circumstances specifically and consider 
whether Next have treated her fairly. 
Ive thought carefully about the impact on Miss H. I accept she has been caused some 
unnecessary inconvenience and frustration. But she has benefited from the Next3Step 
facility. Shes also been able to open a new pay as you go cash account to make 
purchases. And Next have sent Miss H £50 compensation in gift cards.
Having taken everything into account, I think £50 compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
frustration and inconvenience caused to Miss H. So, Im not asking them to pay anything 
more. 
Next has made this payment in gift card form. I dont think this is unreasonable or unfair as 
Mrs H can use it to make purchases on her new pay as you go cash account. 
Whilst Im not going to instruct Next to do so, I understand they are still willing to pay £50 in 
cash as offered in their final response letter, if Mrs H prefers. To accept this, Mrs H will need 
to contact Next directly. 
Overall, Im satisfied Next have fairly resolved this complaint and I dont require them to do 
anything else. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman