DRN-3068532
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
dealt with a flood claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr and Mrs D made a claim to RSA after their home was flooded.
RSA accepted the claim. It appointed a loss adjuster to manage it. It also appointed a 
restoration company to take some contents into storage so that the property could be dried.
In December 2019 the restoration company returned about 60 boxes from storage during 
the course of three visits. It left the boxes stacked up. Mrs D said it was difficult for her to 
unpack them and she and Mr D injured themselves in the process. 
Mr and Mrs D complained to RSA several times about the way their claim had been handled 
and in particular:
the delay in dealing with their claim;
some items had been damaged or lost while in storage;
they werent given help to unpack the boxes resulting in injuries;
that RSA had referred them to the restoration company rather than dealing with their 
complaint about their injuries; and
that the situation has caused them extreme distress.
In response RSA offered a total of £6,640 (including £1,280 from its loss adjuster) in 
compensation. Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the offer. Initially it referred Mr and Mrs D to the 
restoration company regarding the personal injury claim and latterly to its solicitor.
Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
thought RSAs offer of compensation was fair and that it should pay Mr and Mrs D £4,000 
(being the total amount of compensation offered less what it had already paid in this 
respect).
As Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the claim has been settled, I believe the main issue that remains is the amount of 
compensation RSA should pay Mr and Mrs D for the shortcomings in its service to them. So 
Ill focus on that. 
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policyholder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
Ill look at the main issues complained about in turn.
delays
There were some delays initially in arranging the drying and restoration process. There was 
also a lack of continuity with the loss adjusters staff who didnt manage the various 
contractors as effectively as they should have done. For some of this time Mr and Mrs D 
were effectively camping out on the upper floor of their home although alternative 
accommodation was later provided. Despite these delays the building work was largely 
completed by December 2018. However because of the contents claim being complicated by 
the restoration company losing and/or breaking things, that wasnt completed until December 
2019. That meant further delay for Mr and Mrs D to replace all the items they were claiming 
for.
lost and damaged items
At first Mr and Mrs D were told by RSA to complain to the restoration company about the 
items it had lost or damaged. There were issues with that companys insurance cover 
which didnt allow for the replacement of the items in question on an indemnity basis. That 
meant Mr and Mrs D had some difficulty in getting a fair settlement from the company. 
Although this part of the claim was eventually settled, I dont think RSA should have left 
them to sort this out for themselves when the restoration company was RSAs agent and 
also since it had much more negotiating power than Mr and Mrs D. This caused them 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience on top of the distress which they would naturally 
have suffered by their belongings not having been handled with due care. I also note that 
some of the items were of great sentimental value to Mr and Mrs D and so were 
irreplaceable.
 
not helping Mr and Mrs D unpack the boxes causing them to injure themselves
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs D injured themselves unpacking the boxes. Id like to clarify 
that its the role of our service to investigate individual complaints about financially regulated 
activities. As part of that, I can make an award of compensation if I think a consumer has 
been caused pain and suffering by an error a business has made but not in the detailed way 
that a court assesses personal injury claims. In any event I havent seen any medical 
evidence about the injuries. So Mr and Mrs D may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether or not to accept this decision.
Mr and Mrs D say the boxes were very heavy and stacked so that it was hard to reach the 
ones on top. The dust made Mr Ds asthma worse and aggravated his long-term health 
condition. Mrs D said she suffered pins and needles in her hands and aching arms and 
shoulders. Particularly as it was aware of their age and Mr Ds ill-health I dont think RSA 
treated them fairly in leaving them to unpack the boxes.RSA referring Mr and Mrs D to the restoration company rather than dealing with their 
complaint about their injuries
I can understand why the restoration companys insurers had to be involved if Mr and Mrs D 
were claiming against it for a personal injury. But as mentioned above with the claim for lost 
and damaged contents, I think RSA could have done more to help them, if only to explain 
the process to them rather than just leaving them to get on with it themselves.
All in all, I can see that poor service on the part of RSA and its suppliers made this claim 
much more stressful and difficult for Mr and Mrs D than it needed to be. But to its credit I 
think RSA has recognised that in its offer of compensation. Having taken all the 
circumstances into account I think the total compensation of £6,640 offered by RSA is fair 
and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs D. I appreciate that this will 
come as a disappointment to them but Ive thought about this services approach to awards 
made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more. 
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has offered to pay Mr and Mrs D a total of £6,640 
compensation for trouble and upset and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. It has 
already paid £2,640 in respect of this. It should now pay the balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman