DRN-4305610
The complaint
Mr M complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) declined to cover the 
full cost of repairs to his kitchen after an escape of water, under his home buildings 
Insurance policy.
What happened
A pipe beneath Mr Ms kitchen floor burst. This caused damage to the floor. Mr M contacted 
AA to make a claim and it sent an assessor. The assessor agreed with Mr M that the whole 
kitchen floor, and sub floor would need to be taken up and replaced. Mr M says the kitchen 
needed to be removed prior to the floor repairs, and then replaced.
Mr M says AA offered a settlement payment for around £7,000. A local contactor quoted him 
£12,500 to do the repairs as AA set out in its schedule of work. He says the contractors 
quote seemed reasonable, but AAs offer was unrealistic given current levels of inflation.     
Mr M arranged for the repairs to be completed by his contractor. The granite work tops were 
damaged when being removed. Mr M says this was unavoidable. He thinks AA should cover 
the cost of replacing the work tops, but it refused. Mr M also believes AA should cover the 
cost of replacing the flooring in full. He says this is around 55m not the 10m area AA 
agreed to pay for. 
In its final complaint response AA says its in-house surveyor thought the damage to the 
kitchen work tops and units, were the result of inadequate protections and workmanship, 
when removing the kitchen. It says this didnt happen as a result of the insured cause, which 
was an escape of water. It didnt agree to pay more under Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M thought this was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He says AA has offered to include the cost of flooring insulation. If Mr 
M can evidence this was in place and required replacement. Our investigator didnt think AA 
was responsible for the damage Mr Ms contractors caused when removed the existing 
kitchen. Because of this he didnt think AA needed to take any further action. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mr Ms policy terms and conditions. His policy covers damage resulting from a 
leaking pipe. Under the heading General Conditions Relating to Claims Mr Ms policy terms 
say:
How we will settle your claim 
At our option we will:  repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers; or  make a 
cash payment if you wish to use your own supplier. If we make a cash payment, we will only 
pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and therefore the amount you receive 
may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers
AAs schedule of works say it will cost £7,752.96 to complete the repairs. Ive compared this 
with the quote Mr M received from his contractor dated 31 May 2023. The quote is less 
detailed and summarises the work to be done. However, I think both set out the same 
repairs. One difference is that Mr Ms contractor quotes for 55m of flooring repairs. This 
includes subflooring. AAs schedule says that 51m of flooring will be either, previously set 
aside or newly supplied. But only provides for 10m of subfloor materials to be replaced. 
I note Mr M questioned the decision to only include 10m of the flooring into AAs schedule of 
works. I can see our investigator queried this with the business. In its response it says only 
10m of the floor was damaged by the water leak. So, it correctly allowed for 10m of the 
subfloor to be replaced. The schedule allowed for 51m, of the oak flooring, to either be 
replaced or re-laid. So, the visible part of the flooring was to be re-laid or replaced, and the 
subfloor damaged section was agreed to be replaced. This is in line with the policy terms. I 
cant see that AA treated Mr M unfairly here. 
I think its reasonable that AA considers a payment for the cost of replacing flooring 
insulation  if Mr M can show this was necessary. But I dont think hes shown that the 
costing it produced was unfair. AAs policy terms say it will arrange for repairs to be 
completed using its suppliers. Alternatively, it will make a cash payment if Mr M chooses to 
use his own suppliers. The terms explain it will only pay what it would cost AA to use its own 
suppliers. This may result in a lower payment that Mr Ms supplier would charge. 
I can understand why Mr M is unhappy with the cash payment offered by AA. This is much 
less than the quote he obtained. But I dont think this means AA treated him unfairly. 
Insurers can usually benefit from preferential contractor rates due to the volume of work they 
instruct. This means local contractors, such as the company Mr M used, will usually cost 
more. Mr M chose to appoint his own contractor, which he is entitled to do. But his policy 
doesnt cover the cost quoted by his contractor, only what it would cost AA to do the work.    
Ive thought about the damage that was caused to Mr Ms kitchen worktops and bases, by 
his contractor. I acknowledge Mr Ms comments that the damage was unavoidable. Ive also 
read the report provided by AAs surveyor when the claim was first reported. The surveyor 
comments that it may be necessary to remove the full kitchen prior to the repair. His report 
also says:
The kitchen has stone worktops and back splash panels and these may break on removal.
The schedule of works included the following:
stone worktop and backsplash to remove, set aside and later refit, heavy tops, fragile due to 
hob cut out, careful removal, 2-3 man job to carefully remove/refit to avoid damaging
In its final complaint response AA says its in-house surveyor had reviewed the images of the 
damage caused. He says this was the result of inadequate protections and workmanship, as 
opposed to unavoidable damage. I can see that our investigator asked AA for a more 
detailed explanation to support its view on this point. It responded with further comments 
from its in-house surveyor. The surveyor says:.. the worktop being granite will have weak areas preferably [sic] in the cut out for sinks, 
hobs etc in this case the sink so there is 2 points a couple of inches from the front corners 
that will require supporting props to take the pressure off the worktop as the base unit below 
is removed preventing breakage, (previous experience and few installs and removals of this 
very element qualifies me in knowledge of this).
Having considered all of this, its clear the process of removing the granite worktops had to 
be done carefully to avoid damage. AAs surveyor is clear in his opinion that inadequate 
support was provided under the weaker sections of the worktops. He says this also accounts 
for the damaged base unit. This is where too much weight was allowed to act on the base 
unit resulting in the damage seen in the photos. The surveyor maintains that using the 
correct approach would have allowed for the successful removal of the worktop.
Ive also considered the information contained in Mr Ms contractors quote. The section 
referring to the removal of worktops and upstands, says these are likely to be damaged 
during removal.
Im not an expert in this area. So, I must rely on the opinion of those who are. AA has 
provided the opinion of an expert surveyor. He says the kitchen, including the worktops and 
bases couldve been removed without damage, had this been done correctly using the 
correct support. Although I note what the contractor says in his quote, Im more persuaded 
by the surveyors expert opinion, that removal of the worktops was possible without causing 
damage. The likelihood being that Mr Ms contractor caused the damaged by not using the 
correct support.  
Based on this evidence I dont think AA behaved unreasonably when offering the settlement 
payment it did. I dont think it acted unfairly when declining to increase its settlement 
payment as a result of the damage caused by Mr Ms contractor. Its reasonable that AA 
considers the additional flooring insulation costs, as it has offered to do, if Mr M can show 
this was a requirement of the restoration works. But I cant fairly ask AA to do anymore to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman