DRN-2811908
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here was
around seven years old and had completed about 84,506 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect quite a bit of some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car, even of this age and mileage, to
have a persistent smell of diesel. I think that would be intolerable and worrying.
Job sheets show that the garage attempted a repair to the turbo when Mr K reported a
strong smell of diesel to them in early January 2020, only about a month after hed taken
receipt of the car.
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault occurs within the first six months it is to be
assumed to have been present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn where responsible
for the cars quality, unless the business can demonstrate otherwise.
I think its reasonable to suggest that the dealership accepted the diesel smell was not
normal wear and tear, for a car of this age and mileage, as they completed a repair to the
turbo free of charge. I think they were right to do so.
The relevant legislation only gives the business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present
at the point of supply. If that repair fails then they should allow the consumer to reject the
vehicle.
Here, whilst an independent assessment of the fault didnt happen, I am persuaded that
Mr K has provided sufficient evidence to suggest the repair did fail. Moneybarns contact
notes from February 2020, after the turbo had been fixed, explain customer also mentioned
a strong smell of dieselthe problem is still there and every time it goes in to the garage
they say it is something different customer now wants to reject the vehicle. Ive also seen a
job card from the manufacturers dealership who were asked to investigate strong smell of
diesel still occurring in April 2020. The independent inspector didnt refer to a smell of diesel
but did have to curtail his test drive because of carbon monoxide fumes. I think these may
have been the fumes Mr K was concerned about but, regardless, I think it was Moneybarns
responsibility to demonstrate the repair that had been completed had been completed
successfully and I dont think the inspectors report does that.
So, Im persuaded the repair hadnt been successful.
Whilst the inspector identified issues with the car, he didnt suggest there was evidence of
problems when the car was supplied. I dont think the inspector has considered the job
sheets provided and noted the limited mileage Mr K had completed since the last repair.
Having done so myself I think there is evidence of a failed repair and that Moneybarn should
therefore allow Mr K to reject the vehicle as it was not of satisfactory quality.
Whilst I agree that Moneybarn should end the finance agreement and collect the car at no
cost to Mr K, there were some areas of redress I dont think the investigator considered.
Mr K appears to have paid a £400 deposit. Moneybarn should refund that deposit and add
8% simple interest to that refund as Mr K has been deprived of the money.
Moneybarn should refund all the finance instalments that Mr K has made to them under the
agreement.
But its only fair that Mr K pays for the use hes had from the car and I dont think the 
investigators view took this into account as she suggested the agreement should be ended
with nothing to further to pay.
Mr K has explained hes not been driving the car. The mileage should therefore be the same
as it was when the independent inspection took place in October 2020. The car has
therefore completed 4,337 miles since inception of the finance agreement. The average
mileage for a diesel car is about 9,400 a year (783 per month) so I think a reasonable
assessment would be that Mr K has had about five and a half months use of the car.
Moneybarn should therefore retain five and half monthly instalments from any refund theyprovide and if Mr K hasnt paid all of these instalments they can make a charge for the
outstanding ones.
Mr K has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes been waiting some time for a
resolution to his complaint when I think it could have been resolved earlier, and hes had to
take his car to be repaired on several occasions. Our investigator didnt suggest any
compensation should be paid in respect of the distress and inconvenience and the lack of
enjoyment Mr K has experienced with his car, but in the circumstances, I think Moneybarn
should pay Mr K £250.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr K;
refund any deposit Mr K has paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund all monthly finance instalments paid but retain five and a half of them in
respect of the use Mr K has had from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to the
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr K £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced and his loss of enjoyment;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to these
issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision and so did Moneybarn. But they asked me to think 
about what the situation would be if the car was returned to them with a higher mileage than 
the 88,843 that was noted at the time of the independent inspection, after which Mr K has 
explained he hasnt used the car.
Ive no reason to believe the mileage will be any higher than that. But, if it is, I think it would 
be reasonable for Moneybarn to make a deduction for the additional use Mr K has had from 
the car. They can withhold an additional monthly instalment for every 783 miles completed 
and, if Mr K, hasnt paid enough instalments they can make a charge for the outstanding 
ones.
  
Putting things right
So, having considered the additional information my provisional decision remains unchanged 
except for the additional charge that I accept it is for Moneybarn to make if the car is 
returned with additional mileage.  
My final decisionFor the reasons I uphold this complaint and to tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr K;
refund any deposit Mr K has paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund all monthly finance instalments paid but retain five and a half of them in
respect of the use Mr K has had from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to the
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
pay Mr K £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced and his loss of enjoyment;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to these
issues.  
* If the car is returned with more than 88,843 miles on the clock Moneybarn can withhold an 
additional monthly instalment for every 783 miles completed. If Mr K, hasnt paid enough 
instalments they can make a charge for the outstanding ones.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman