DRN-1349795
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim she made on her landlord 
home insurance policy.
What happened
 Mrs A took out her home insurance policy with AXA on 4 March 2019. In May 2019, Mrs As 
tenant noticed water was leaking through from the bathroom and damaging the living room 
ceiling. A couple of weeks later, Mrs A made a claim on her policy for the damage.
AXA carried out a video call to assess the damage. Based on that assessment, it made an 
offer of around £1400 to settle the claim. Mrs A rejected this settlement, as shed had a 
higher quote from her contractor.
Mrs A then sent in further quotes from two contractors, one in June and one in July. The 
repair costs had gone up by about £6000 from the original quote. So AXA asked a surveyor 
to inspect Mrs As home to assess the extent of the damage. A surveyor visited very shortly 
afterwards.
The surveyors report said that the damage had been ongoing for a long time. It stated that 
the tenant had told the surveyor this leak had been ongoing since November 2018 and 
leaking onto the living room ceiling. It also said that given the damage to the bathroom, it 
was clear the leak had been ongoing for years. 
AXA decided to turn down the claim based on the surveyors report and withdrew its 
previous offer. It said the damage had been caused before the policy began, which wasnt 
covered. It suggested Mrs A should contact her previous insurer to make a claim for the 
damage. It recognised itd initially said the claim was covered and delayed in letting her 
know it wasnt, so it offered her £100 for her trouble and upset.
Mrs A wasnt happy and so Mr A made a complaint on her behalf. Our investigator didnt 
think Mrs As complaint should be upheld. He said the policy excluded claims for damage 
that happened before a policy began. He thought the surveyors report and photos showed 
the damage had been ongoing before the policy started. So he thought AXA had acted fairly 
by turning down the claim. And he thought AXA had been entitled to send out a surveyor to 
assess the damage, given the value of the repair quotes. 
Mrs A disagreed. Her tenant provided a statement to say the leak had started last year, but 
had been fixed and had now started again. She said her home emergency insurer had 
carried out repairs to the past leaks and had also replaced the bathroom floorboards. She 
also said the price difference between the cost of the original repair quote and the 
subsequent quotes was because the ceiling was asbestos and needed to be removed. This 
had pushed the price up. She asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for AXA 
to turn down Mrs As claim. Ill explain why.
First, I appreciate that AXA initially accepted Mrs As claim and made an offer of settlement. I 
can understand how frustrating it mustve been when it then decided to appoint a surveyor 
and ultimately turned the claim down.
Ive thought carefully about this. AXA was initially happy to accept the claim based on a 
video call with Mrs A. It only appointed the surveyor once the quote costs substantially 
increased. I know Mrs A said this was down to the inclusion of the costs of dealing with 
asbestos. So Ive looked carefully at the quotes. The first doesnt really break down the 
repair costs at all. It just says labour charge for leak repairs. The second quote includes 
costs to remove section of ceiling and dispose. Neither of these quotes refers to dealing 
with the asbestos thatd been found. So I dont think this wouldve been clear to AXA.
Given the discrepancy between what the first claims handler thought the settlement should 
be and the quotes Mrs A provided, I think it was reasonable for AXA to appoint a surveyor 
when it did. Thats because I think it was fair for it to want to establish the extent of the 
damage; the costs of putting it right and the likely cause of it. 
So Ive then turned to think about whether or not it was fair for AXA to conclude the damage 
had started before it began covering Mrs As property.
Mrs As policy with AXA began on 4 March 2019. So it was at that point that AXA started 
insuring her buy to let property. Her previous insurer provided insurance cover for the 
property before that date. AXAs policy states:
When we dont cover you
Events before the policy started
Any loss, damage, bodily injury or liability arising out of any accident or incident that 
happened before your policy started.
So the policy makes it clear that claims for damage caused before a policy began arent 
covered. Ive thought about whether its most likely the damage happened before Mrs As 
policy with AXA started.
I appreciate there have been references to Mrs As tenant telling the surveyor the leak had 
been going on for four years. I thank her for the statement from her tenant. It seems from the 
surveyors report that the tenant said this leak had been going on since November 2018. In 
the tenants statement, they said the leak had started last year, but had been repaired and 
then started again. Last year wouldve been in 2018, so it seems that the tenants statement 
and what the surveyor recorded do tie-in. Even if the leak in 2018 was repaired, I think its 
very likely that some damage wouldve been sustained at that point.
Ive then turned to consider the surveyors findings and the photos of the damage. It says: 
upon inspection, the bathroom is in poor condition. There is mould around the bath and the 
floorboards under the bath have completely deteriorated as they are constantly getting wet. 
There is damage to the tiles around the bath and damage to the back of the sink. It also 
says: it is evident given the condition of the room the leak has been ongoing for years.The photos the surveyor took show rotten flooring and mould around the bath. While Mrs A 
may have had the floor replaced a couple of years back, the photos do show some of it has 
rotted badly. This would suggest an ongoing leak. 
The report also says that the living room ceiling is evidently showing historic leaks as well as 
recent. It continues the leak has been on going this time since November 2018 and is still 
on going. There has been no mitigation to stop further damage. This would also suggest 
that the damage had been ongoing for at least seven months at the time of the claim.
The surveyor appears to have conducted a thorough inspection of Mrs As property and the 
photos support their findings. On this basis, I find the report persuasive. Mrs A hasnt 
provided any independent expert evidence to counter the findings of AXAs surveyor.  So 
this report is the only expert evidence I have to show me when the damage is likely to have 
occurred. 
The surveyor found the damage pre-dated the start of the policy. Based on the report, I 
think, on balance, its most likely water damage from leaks had been happening before the 
policy began. So it follows that I think it was fair for AXA to rely on the surveyors evidence to 
decide to turn down the claim.
Its open to Mrs A to approach her previous insurer to make a claim for the damage.
Ive then thought about the compensation AXA offered Mrs A. I think £100 was fair for the 
trouble and upset it caused her. I appreciate how disappointed she mustve been when the 
claim was turned down, but I think £100 recognises this impact. Ive borne in mind that while 
she was told the claim would be accepted, she turned down AXAs initial offer. And she 
hadnt incurred any actual costs as a result of AXA telling her she would be covered, as the 
repair works hadnt started by the time AXA changed its decision. So I wont be telling AXA 
to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman