DRN-1436471
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society incorrectly told him there would be no 
early repayment charge (ERC) if he redeemed his mortgage.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with Nationwide that was subject to an ERC if he repaid it before 
2023.
On 30 July 2019 he phoned Nationwide to check if there were any ERCs and was told no. 
He phoned back about ten minutes later, and the mistake was corrected. Mr M immediately 
complained about the earlier misinformation.
Nationwide accepted it gave the wrong information to Mr M initially and paid him £100 
compensation.
Mr M didnt accept this and referred his complaint to us, saying I completed my mortgage 
application with the other lender and the switch was going through. I was then informed by 
my new lender that I did indeed have an early re payment of £850, by this time it was simply 
too late to pull out.
Our investigator felt Nationwides offer was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above Mr M initially told us that he found out about the ERC from the new 
lender (not Nationwide) and only at a point that the remortgage was going through and it was 
too late to pull out. But thats not right. Mr M was given the correct information (by 
Nationwide) about ten minutes after hed been given the wrong information.
Mr M then told us that in that ten-minute period he completed online a mortgage application 
with the new lender and a credit check had been carried out. He said at that point there was 
no way of amending the figures and he shouldnt be expected to have to start over at that 
point and have another credit check against his name. But, again, thats not right.
The proof of application Mr M has sent us is an email just relating to an agreement in 
principle enquiry. That says We need to speak to you before we decide if we can give you 
an Agreement in Principle and gives a number for Mr M to call to book in a branch or phone 
appointment with a mortgage adviser. It also says As we explained before you applied, we 
registered a quotation search with the credit reference agency, Experian, to help us make a 
decision. This wasnt a formal credit application and wont affect your credit rating or your 
ability to borrow money in future.
Its clear from this that rather than a full application having been made, Mr M had only 
requested an agreement in principle and that wasnt even agreed there and then as the new 
lender wanted him to speak to a mortgage adviser first. It also shows only a soft quotation 
search was done so it wouldnt have impacted on his credit rating or any future credit 
checks. So, Mr M could either have pulled out of the remortgage entirely without cost and 
without any impact on his credit file, or he could have asked the new lender (as part of the 
conversation it wanted to have with him anyway) if he could borrow an extra £850 to pay the 
ERC.
Its not at all unusual for mortgage amounts to be amended whilst an application is in 
progress. So even if Mr M had completed a full application and it was quite a long way 
through the process, he could still have asked for the mortgage amount to be amended to 
include the £850 (subject to the new lenders underwriting, of course) at any time up until the 
funds were released.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple human error that meant Mr M was initially told that he 
wouldnt incur an ERC. This is a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known as a 
misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type we consider the 
appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect 
information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had 
been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Mr M would have been told about ten minutes 
before he actually was that hed incur an ERC. Mr M could never have been in the position 
where he wouldnt incur the ERC. As the mistake was corrected within about ten minutes 
Mr M has already had the appropriate remedy in that he knew the true position before he 
was tied to remortgaging.
Mr M has asked what would have happened if he hadnt phoned back. I cant answer that, 
but I dont need to. We dont deal with what if? scenarios. Mr M did call back, and he was 
then given the right information, thats all I can deal with. Were not the regulator and its not 
our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of 
compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the impact of a business 
actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made in other 
similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that the £100 compensation already paid by 
Nationwide is more than fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Nationwide made a fair offer in its 
response to the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman