DRN-2272331
The complaint
Mr L complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited (Equiniti) delayed his sale of shares 
and did not deal effectively with requests for his account to be closed which impacted on his 
relationship with his employer.
What happened
Mr L says that he was instructed by his employer to sell shares in a security that I will call 
Stock A. He says that this was because Equiniti could not meet his employers internal 
reporting requirements. Mr L called Equiniti to sell the shares on 23 May 2019 but the sale 
failed and he was told that this would need to be investigated and someone would contact 
him.
Mr L called Equiniti the next day to ask for an update and was told that the sale hadnt gone 
through but they couldnt explain why. Mr L raised a complaint with Equiniti at this point. The 
sale was processed that day at a price more favourable than when it was first attempted.
Equiniti investigated Mr Ls complaint and partially upheld it. They said that they could not 
offer any explanation as to why the follow up telephone call did not happen and offered Mr L 
£25 in recognition of this.
Mr L contacted Equiniti again as he had requested the account to be closed in line with his 
employers instructions.  Mr L said that Equiniti failed to provide him with evidence that this 
had happened and made repeated attempts to resolve this and raised another complaint 
with Equiniti.  
Equiniti responded with an explanation as to why the account couldnt be closed. They say 
that the shares were held in a nominee account within a corporate sponsored nominee 
service and that Mr L did not have an account with Equiniti. As there was no dealing account 
at Equiniti, the closure request which Mr L asked for could not be carried out.  
Equiniti later provided a letter to Mr L saying that he had a nil holding and his account was 
effectively closed.
Mr L did not accept Equinitis response and referred the matter to the service. One of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint but did not think that Equiniti had done anything wrong 
in its attempts to resolve the complaint. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators response, Mr L has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I agree with the investigators view for much of the same 
reasons and will be not be upholding the complaint.
The main aspect to this complaint is that Equiniti did not adequately deal with Mr Ls request 
to close the account and provide evidence of this. Mr L says that he had to repeatedly 
contact Equiniti to get the issue resolved so that he could satisfy his employers 
requirements. Mr L has said that this has had a damaging effect on his relationship with his 
employer.
Equiniti have acknowledged that that they did not follow up Mr Ls initial telephone call when 
he tried to sell shares and the instruction failed. They can offer no explanation as to why this 
didnt happen and apologised to Mr L. They offered Mr L £25 in recognition of the trouble 
and upset caused by their error and confirmed that as the shares had been sold at a higher 
price, he did not suffer any financial disadvantage. Looking at this part of the complaint, I 
think that Equiniti have resolved the complaint fairly.
Mr L says that Equiniti did not deal with the request to close his account so that he could 
inform his employer. From what I have seen, I think that both parties may have been 
speaking at cross purposes with Equiniti not fully appreciating what Mr L was asking for and 
Mr L not knowing that he did not have a dealing account with them. I think they were trying to 
deal with Mr Ls request but not in a manner that Mr L was looking for. Equiniti did confirm to 
Mr L on 26 June that their records showed that there were no longer any shares held 
following their sale.
Mr L called Equiniti following receipt of this this letter and Equiniti tried to explain why the 
account could not be closed. From what I have seen in file, the reason that the account not 
be closed is that Mr L did not have a share dealing account with Equiniti. His shares were 
held in a corporate sponsored nominee service and his name did not show on the Company 
Register. As he did not have an account with Equiniti, they could not close any account. 
Equiniti have provided me with the terms and conditions for the service and under the 
heading 13. Ending the agreement, it reads
This agreement will only end once your shares are no longer held in the UK Sharestore, 
and any outstanding dividends or other entitlements have cashed in accordance with your 
instructions.
This explains what will happen once shares have been sold and all other income distributed, 
and this agreement would have been sent to Mr L. 
Mr L made several calls on the 27 August to Equiniti and the result of these calls was a letter 
sent on 28 August by Equiniti. This letter says, upon investigation, I can confirm that your 
holding has been closed.
Mr L called Equiniti again on the 29 October to request a confirmation of holding. This was 
sent out to Mr L and says, Our records show that there are no longer any shares held, 
following their sale on 29 May 2019.
Mr L complains that he had to make repeated calls to Equiniti to ask them to close his 
account. I can recognise why Mr L feels that he wasnt getting the answer he was looking for 
but he didnt have a dealing account with Equiniti - the shares were held in a nominee 
account that Equiniti administered and all he had was a holding at Equiniti which went to nil 
after the sale.In his complaint to the service, Mr L has asked for compensation for the harm that Equiniti 
has done to his relationship with his employer. I recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling but I 
dont think that Equiniti has done anything wrong that would justify compensation and Im not 
going to ask them to do so.
Mr L has also asked that the regulator investigate whether Equiniti is fit to carry on business. 
Its not the role of the service to say how a business should operate and we do not perform 
the role of a regulator. Our role is to see if a business has made an error and if it has, to ask 
them to put the client back into a position had the error not occurred. Equiniti did delay the 
initial sale but put Mr L back into the position he would have been in had the error not 
occurred. They also compensated Mr L for this error. 
In summary, I believe that Equiniti tried to resolve the complaint and although it took several 
letters to Mr L to confirm what he was looking for, it did not do anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman