DRN-1965345
The complaint
Mr M complains about errors in the valuation of his drawdown account made by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). These errors led him to think he had substantially more in his 
drawdown account, and he says he committed to various items of expenditure he wouldnt 
otherwise have committed to. 
What happened
On 2 May 2019 Mr Ms independent financial adviser (IFA) phoned Aviva to query why a 
number of manual adjustments had been made by Aviva on Mr Ms account as it was 
impacting on the value of the account and not giving an accurate reflection of the value of his 
account. Aviva said it had had issues with selling units in one of its funds, so it had made 
manual adjustments to make sure Mr M continued to receive his monthly cash withdrawal 
from the account. Aviva said that, on occasion, the manual cash adjustment it made was 
higher than the cash actually withdrawn, and this had distorted the valuations it had given Mr 
M. In short, the valuations showed more money in his drawdown account than there should 
have been. 
Mr M and his IFA complained to Aviva. Mr M said he had committed to additional spending 
that he wouldnt have committed to if hed known the true value of his drawdown account. He 
provided details of around £29,000 of spending on holidays, home and garden 
improvements and other things.
Aviva accepted it had made errors and offered to compensate Mr M with £400 for the 
frustration and inconvenience its errors had caused. It also offered to compensate Mr M for 
£400 for the loss of his deposit if he chose to cancel one of his holidays, if he provided 
evidence of cancellation. It thought that not all of the expenditure had occurred before Mr M 
was aware of the issue with his account and it thought discrepancies in the valuation could 
have been spotted sooner by Mr M and his IFA.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Avivas response, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators considered his complaint but thought Avivas offer was fair. He said the quote 
for garden work appeared to have been produced after Mr M became aware of the issue and 
the holiday could have been cancelled and Aviva would have refunded the deposit. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators assessment. He said he had cancelled the holiday 
and lost his deposit and if the work to the garden was excluded, he still paid out over 
£15,000 in other spending before he was made aware of the error in the valuation. He said 
this was spending he wouldnt have undertaken if hed been aware of the true state of his 
drawdown account. 
The investigator said Mr M had still had the benefit of the expenditure  other holidays and 
home improvements. He noted that Mr M said he had increased withdrawals from his wifes 
ISA on the basis on the incorrect valuations. But he didnt have any evidence this increase 
was due to the errors with the pension account valuation.
Mr M said Aviva had misled him for 10 months, even though it knew there was an issue. He 
said that while he may well have gone ahead with some of the items of expenditure, a 
number of them would have been put on hold if the correct valuation had been given. And 
whilst he might have had the benefit of them, that wasnt the point. As he is retired, he cant 
make up this money, which needs to last.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its fair to say that Mr M has had the benefit of the money he spent on things like holidays 
and home improvements and so I dont think he should get back all of the money he spent 
before he became aware of the problem with the valuations. Mr M has said that he may well 
have gone ahead with some of these items of spending, while others would have been put 
on hold if hed been given the correct figures. I note hes also said he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with them. Overall the evidence doesnt persuade me that its more likely than not that 
he wouldnt have gone ahead with these items of spending if he knew the correct value of 
his drawdown fund. Nor am I persuaded that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have increased the 
amount of money they were drawing from her ISA.
It is clear that Mr M was caused some distress and inconvenience. It isnt easy making 
financial decisions when its not clear how much money you have or can expect to have. Im 
also sure it came as a disappointment that the value of his drawdown fund was lower than 
the valuations might have led him to expect. He had also paid a deposit on a holiday, which 
he has told us he eventually cancelled due to having less money in his drawdown fund than 
he thought. Its right that Aviva offered to compensate him for these things. 
Mr M has provided evidence that the deposit paid for the holiday was £400 and Aviva offered 
to pay him £400 to cover this if he cancelled the holiday and provided it with evidence of 
cancellation. I think that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In terms of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M, Ive referred to the difficulty of 
planning and making financial decisions, the disappointment and loss of expectation and the 
general inconvenience caused. I have also considered that ultimately, its not at all clear he 
would have made significantly different spending decisions, beyond cancelling one of his 
holidays. Having weighed everything up, overall, I think £400 is reasonable compensation for 
the errors and the distress and inconvenience caused.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint, in the sense that I think Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited made errors and caused him distress and inconvenience. But I think its 
offer of £400 and a further £400 for the lost holiday deposit, if Mr M provides evidence of 
cancellation, is fair and reasonable. I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay £400 
compensation and a further £400 if Mr M provides evidence of cancellation, if Aviva hasnt 
already paid these amounts. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Greg Barham
Ombudsman