DRN-2086708
The complaint
Mr L says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to
Mr Ls credit card account when he applied for the card. Mr L cancelled the policy in 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ls signed application for the credit card. It includes equally 
prominent options to take or decline PPI. Theres a tick in the Yes box to indicate that 
Mr L wished to take the cover. 
I think the way PPI was referred to on the application form made it clear that the cover 
was optional. I acknowledge that Mr L says he didnt tick the box, and that the PPI was 
added without his knowledge. But Ive borne in mind that monthly premiums for the PPI 
would have been shown on Mr Ls credit card statements. And if he hadnt agreed to 
take the cover, I think its likely hed have contacted Capital One to query the payments 
and to ask to cancel the policy. As it was, he didnt cancel the policy until 2006.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr L would have known 
that he had a choice about whether to take the PPI. And I think he decided to take it  
although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L. This means it didnt have a responsibility 
to check that the PPI was right for him. It was for Mr L to decide for himself whether he 
wanted to take the PPI, knowing what alternative means hed have had of making his 
monthly credit card repayments if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job. But Capital 
One did have a responsibility to give Mr L enough information to enable him to decide 
whether the cover was suitable for him.
Mr Ls told us hed have been entitled to at least three months full pay from his employer 
at the time if hed been off sick. He says that this would then have been reviewed to see 
if any help was needed. But if hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident or 
sickness, it would have helped with his monthly credit card repayments for up to 
12 months per successful claim. Thats significantly longer than it sounds as if Mr L 
would have been guaranteed to receive full sick pay. And it would have paid the same 
benefit if hed made a successful unemployment claim on the policy. Whats more, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr L received from his employer. 
So he could have used those to meet other day-to-day living costs. And he wouldnt have 
needed to use any savings he had to make his monthly credit card repayments.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks as if he wanted this type of cover at the time, even if hes understandably forgotten 
that now, so long after the event. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, Mr L was eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions).
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr L 
couldnt afford it. And since he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at 
any time without further charge if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no 
longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr L would have made a different 
decision about taking the PPI out even if hed been given better information about the 
policy.
Ive taken account of all Mr Ls comments, including what hes said about never having had 
the email address thats shown on the credit card application form. But that doesnt change 
my view that, for the reasons explained, I think he chose to take out the PPI. And I dont find 
that the policy was mis-sold.
This means that Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Capital One 
didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in 
this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman