DRN-4286813
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund him after he bought tickets 
he didnt receive.
What happened
What Mr S says
Mr S says that he heard about a seller through a friend and had also seen that the seller had 
offered goods on social media. He had previously paid the seller for tickets that he received. 
On 15 November 2022 Mr S paid the same seller £450 for an international match and then 
on 14 February £75 for another game, but Mr S didnt receive the tickets he paid for. Mr S 
tried to get in touch with the seller but wasnt able to. Mr S reported the matter to Santander 
on 28 February 2023.
What Santander say
A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection to scam victims in many 
circumstances - the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Santander said Mr S had a civil dispute with the seller of the tickets. Civil disputes arent 
covered by the CRM Code. 
Mr S didnt agree and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in full. He 
said that Mr S was the victim of a scam and had a reasonable basis for believing he was 
dealing with a legitimate seller as hed previously received tickets.
Mr S accepted the investigators findings, but Santander didnt. It asked for further evidence 
Mr S reported the matter to the police. The complaint was then passed to me to consider. To 
try to understand this complaint better I asked Santander to provide a recording of the call 
when Mr S reported the scam, but I wasnt able to listen to the calls that Santander sent. 
I carefully reviewed all the available evidence and issued a provisional decision on 3 October 
2023. In the What I provisionally think  and why section of it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S. He has lost money and doesnt seem to 
have been treated fairly by the ticket seller. I can understand why Mr S feels so strongly that 
his losses should be refunded to him. But that doesnt mean that Santander is responsible 
for the money Mr S lost or that it now needs to refund him. 
A bank has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. 
As a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have 
instructed to be made. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam (except in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all payments. It says it does not apply to private civil disputes, 
including payments made to legitimate suppliers where the goods or services werent 
received. 
So, the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of goods as 
has happened here. Instead, the CRM Code only applies in very specific circumstances  
where the customer has been the victim of an APP scam, in other words a criminal fraud. In 
particular, the CRM Code doesnt apply unless it can reasonably be established that there 
was the intent to defraud the customer from the outset and that the high bar required for 
criminal fraud would likely be met. 
Here there doesnt appear to be any doubt that Mr S didnt receive what he paid for. But in 
order to be satisfied that Mr S has been the victim of an APP scam covered by the CRM 
Code, Id have to be satisfied that the evidence is enough for me to be persuaded the ticket 
seller was intent on defrauding him from the outset. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, Im 
not persuaded I can say that is most likely what happened here and will explain why.
The only evidence I have in this case is Mr Ss testimony and some messages between Mr S 
and an unknown third party who appears to have also lost money. As these messages must 
have been some time after Mr S made the transfers, they dont help to determine the sellers 
intent at the time of payment. I havent been provided with any messages between Mr S and 
the seller at the relevant time. 
Mr S didnt report the matter to the police, and I havent been provided with any evidence to 
suggest that the police have investigated Mr Ss concerns or anybody elses and concluded 
that the seller acted fraudulently. I do not have the power to compel the ticket seller to testify, 
and I cannot instruct a police investigation into the matter. Instead, Im restricted to 
considering what I think is more likely than not (and not just as likely) based on the evidence 
available to me.
The seller of the tickets had previously provided Mr S with tickets as expected. Its possible 
that he suddenly decided to criminally defraud Mr S (and seemingly one other person Mr S 
knew) and had no intention of providing them when Mr S made the payments that Im 
considering in this case. Its also possible that the seller genuinely intended to provide the 
tickets at the time Mr S paid for them but, for whatever reason, later changed his mind. I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the first option  criminal intent  was more 
likely and so I cant reasonably conclude that the CRM Code applies in this case. 
I also dont think the payments Mr S made were sufficiently out of character or unusual that 
Santander ought to have had concerns when Mr S submitted the payment instructions. The 
payments were all relatively low in value and were unremarkable when compared to the 
normal use of Mr Ss account. So, I dont consider Santander needed to intervene before 
processing them. 
I realise that my provisional decision will be disappointing for Mr S but overall, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Santander to refund the money he 
lost.
Santander provided the calls Id requested in a different format, so I was able to listen to 
them. Mr S let me know he was unhappy with my provisional decision. In summary, he said:
- He can report the matter to the police at any time.
- He has been scammed.
- I should have listened to the recordings before issuing my provisional decision.
Mr S also provided some additional evidence in the form of text messages which Ill discuss 
below. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing all the evidence my decision hasnt changed. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision (and reproduced above) I consider that Mr S has a civil dispute with the 
seller of the tickets which is not covered by the CRM Code. 
I discussed in my provisional decision the fact that to decide Mr S is the victim of a scam as 
set out in the CRM Code Id need to be satisfied that the seller of the tickets intended to 
defraud Mr S at the time he sold the tickets. The fact tickets werent ultimately provided isnt 
enough to satisfy me this was the case. 
Mr S has provided text messages he exchanged with the person who sold him the tickets 
that suggest the ticket seller hasnt received the tickets he expected from a third party. In 
one message Mr S asked the seller what was going on and whether hed been bumped for 
me money and the seller responded to say that he was the one that had been bumped 
and hed make sure Mr S got a refund. Subsequent messages in February 2023 show this 
didnt happen, and the seller didnt respond to Mr S messages. 
The messages Mr S has provided werent the ones he exchanged at the time he bought the 
tickets. But they give the clear impression that the seller Mr S paid had good intentions but 
was himself let down by an unknown third party, for whatever reason. This reinforces my 
belief that its more likely than not the criminal intent I referred to in my provisional decision 
didnt exist at the time Mr S bought the tickets. 
Mr S has said he could report the matter to the police at any time, which I accept. The fact 
that something is reported to the police doesnt in itself mean that a crime has been 
committed though. My point in my provisional decision was that there is no police evidence 
to suggest that Mr S was the victim of a scam as opposed to not getting what he paid for. 
I have listened to Mr S calls with Santander but they dont add anything to the issue of 
whether Mr S is the victim of a scam, so I wont go into detail here. In the calls Mr S 
explained what happened and Santander asked questions to gain a greater understanding. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels very strongly about this matter, but Im not satisfied there is 
evidence of an intention to deceive him at the time he made the payments so I cant 
reasonably ask Santander to consider Mr S complaint under the CRM Code. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman