DRN-3555087
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland didnt treat him fairly when he fell behind with loan 
repayments. He asks that it removes adverse data from his credit file and buys the debt back 
from the third party it was sold to.
What happened
Mr M took out a loan in 2019. He experienced financial difficulties after losing his job in 2020. 
Bank of Scotland offered six months of payment deferrals. Unfortunately, when this ended in 
June 2021 Mr M was still unable to make loan repayments. Bank of Scotland put a hold on 
the account for 30 days, but says it didnt hear from Mr M after this. In October 2021 it 
defaulted the debt and transferred it to a third party.
Mr M disputes this. He says he kept in touch and told Bank of Scotland about his 
circumstances. He says Bank of Scotland failed to contact him. He says the impact on his 
credit file means borrowing is more expensive and he cant apply for a mortgage or take on a 
role with financial responsibility. 
Our investigator said Bank of Scotland had to report accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies. He said Bank of Scotland was willing to offer support but was unable to 
get in contact with Mr M after June 2021. 
Mr M said this was unfair, and many people had financial difficulties during the pandemic. He 
said hed kept in touch with Bank of Scotland prior to June 2021 and had told them to hold 
off action as he would soon be back in work. He said if Bank of Scotland had contacted him 
by phone they could have agreed a payment arrangement  something he said was never 
offered. Mr M said we should compare this with the way another lender had treated him, 
putting his best interests first and following good industry practice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out what happened with Mr Ms loan account in some detail, as well as 
setting out the relevant regulations and guidance in place in 2021. I dont intend to go into 
the same detail here. I will set out why I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Bank of 
Scotland to remove the default from Mr Ms credit file or to buy back his debt.
Mr M had financial difficulties as a result of losing his job during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Bank of Scotland agreed a payment deferral for January 2021 to June 2021. In accordance 
with the regulators guidance this didnt affect Mr Ms credit file. 
In early June 2021 Mr M asked Bank of Scotland to extend the payment deferral. It couldnt 
offer this as Mr M had already had payment deferrals for six months, the maximum period. 
Mr M told Bank of Scotland he couldnt resume payments at that time, but had job interviews 
lined up. Bank of Scotland put a 30 day hold on the account and suspended interest. Given 
that Mr M hoped his position would improve in the near future, I think this was fair. Bank of 
Scotland wrote to Mr M to confirm the 30 day hold on his account. 
I think Bank of Scotland made reasonable efforts to contact Mr M after this:
it sent a text message to Mr M in mid-July 2021, and about 10 further texts messages 
during July and August 2021 saying hed missed his payment and it could discuss a 
payment plan or other support. 
Mr M says he always dealt with Bank of Scotland by phone. He doesnt consider texts to 
be a proper way to communicate and questions whether hed agreed to this. But after 
receiving text messages Mr M could have contacted Bank of Scotland by phone if that 
was his preferred way to communicate.
Bank of Scotland also sent arrears letters to Mr M in July and August 2021. These asked 
him to get in touch to discuss a way forward. The letters said his credit file could be 
affected. 
Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr M at the end of August 2021. It asked him to get in touch 
by mid-September 2021 to put a payment plan in place or it might end the agreement. It 
sent a default notice at the end of August 2021 saying Mr M would need to agree a 
payment plan or clear the arrears of about £1,150. It said this could affect his credit file.
Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr M again on 25 September 2021 asking Mr M to get in 
touch within 14 days to remedy the default. Bank of Scotland said this could result in a 
default on Mr Ms credit file which could make it more difficult to borrow, and it could 
pass the account to a third party. 
Theres no evidence Mr M contacted Bank of Scotland or responded to its texts and letters 
before October 2021. Bank of Scotland didnt have to also try to contact Mr M by phone or 
email. If Mr M didnt receive its letters, I dont think that was due to an error by Bank of 
Scotland. Mr M hasnt said he didnt receive the texts, only that he doesnt consider text to 
be the proper way to communicate. Nonetheless, the texts would have alerted Mr M to the 
need to contact Bank of Scotland. Mr M said he expected the hold agreed in June 2021 to 
last for six months. If so, I dont think that misunderstanding was due to an error by Bank of 
Scotland.
Bank of Scotland applied a default in mid-October 2021. I dont think that was unfair, given it 
hadnt received a payment from Mr M and he hadnt been in contact about the account for 
several months. Bank of Scotland had by this time sent a number of letters and texts to Mr M 
asking him to get in touch and setting out the possible consequences of not doing so.
Lenders have to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference agencies. 
I dont think it was unfair or inaccurate for Bank of Scotland to record arrears and then a 
default on Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M said after being told Bank of Scotland had closed his account, he asked it to hold off 
taking action as his circumstances had improved and he wanted to resume loan repayments. 
Bank of Scotland said it had already applied a default and passed the account to a third 
party. This timing was unfortunate for Mr M. However, Bank of Scotland had made 
reasonable efforts to contact Mr M about the debt before this.
Mr M says another lender took a different approach, which he considers to be fairer and a 
better example of good industry practice. Im only looking into what Bank of Scotland did. 
The fact that another lender acted differently doesnt mean Bank of Scotland treated Mr M unfairly.
I dont think Bank of Scotland made an error or treated Mr M unfairly. It made reasonable 
efforts to contact Mr M and explain the potential consequences if he didnt get in touch 
before it defaulted the account. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it 
to buy back the debt or remove adverse data from Mr Ms credit file. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman