DRN-3805038
The complaint
Ms T complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include its 
approved repairer and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car made by a large carmaker and 
first registered in 2013.
In December 2021, Ms T had the car insured on a comprehensive policy under which UKI 
was responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, in early December 2021, the car was in a collision and suffered damage to its 
front nearside. In January 2022, UKI arranged repair.
UKI tried to give the car back to Ms T with its engine management light (EML) on.
UKI arranged a diagnostic check at a garage franchised by the carmaker. The garage 
recommended a carbon clean.
Ms T engaged a garage to do a carbon clean. That garage also replaced the fuel injectors. 
Ms T complained, through us, to UKI.
In late April 2022, a national chain said the car had loose wiring.
By a final response dated early May 2022, UKI turned down the complaint.
In about July 2022, Ms T consulted a mobile mechanic. He reconnected some cables that he 
said had become disconnected during the accident or subsequent work. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think 
that UKI was responsible for the issue with the engine. But she thought that UKI was 
responsible for delays and misinformation. She recommended that UKI should pay 
compensation of a further £100.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms T.
Miss T disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She has sent us an experts report.
UKI also disagreed with the investigators opinion in part. It asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
The customer was already awarded £100.00 for the previous issue with the engineer. 
It carried out a diagnostic check for the customer at a cost of over £500.00 as a 
gesture of goodwill, therefore a request for a further £100.00 does not seem justified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most motor policies, UKIs policy for Ms T didnt cover mechanical or electrical faults 
unless caused by accident damage.
UKI did some repairs. But the EML was still on. So I find it reasonable that UKI sent the car 
for a diagnostic check at the franchised dealer. From what Ms T has told us, I find that the 
car was transported rather than driven to the franchised dealer.
The franchised dealers recommendation of a carbon clean was in line with a bulletin from 
the car maker. So I dont find it unreasonable. I dont accept that the recommendation was a 
diagnosis or that UKI said that it would resolve the issue of the EML.
The policy didnt cover cleaning a carbon build-up. So it was up to Ms T to engage a garage 
to do it. 
Ms Ts garage found that  after the clean - the engine was misfiring. The garage replaced 
the fuel injectors. The garages invoice in early February 2022 included the following:
Injector numbers 2 and 3 are over fuelling and leaking fluid when closed, injectors 1 
and 4 are flowing correctly, however they are also leaking a small amount of fluid 
when closed. All 4 injectors require replacing.
Install new aftermarket injectors using new seals.
Carry out road test to verify the miss fire issue has been resolved. Road test 
complete without a re-occurrence of the issue.
There isnt any evidence that the accident or UKIs repair caused the fuel injectors to leak. I 
find it more likely that they had been leaking before the accident and that the engine needed 
a carbon clean. I find that the engine misfire was resolved in early February 2022.
Later, there was an issue with loose wiring, identified by the national chain. Ms Ts expert 
resolved that issue. But Ms Ts garage had worked on the car in early February 2022. And I 
dont hold UKI responsible for the acts or omissions of that garage. 
Overall, Ms T and her expert havent persuaded me that UKI was responsible to resolve the 
issues with the engine.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to compensate Ms T for the costs and 
inconvenience of getting work done by her garage and the expert.
However, Ive noted some times when UKI didnt communicate with Ms T as well as it 
shouldve done. These included in early January 2022 and also in late January and early 
February 2022.
Putting things right
I find that the impact on Ms T was that she had to chase up and clarify information. So I find 
it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay Ms T  in addition to the £100.00 it says it has 
already paid her - £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms T  in addition to the £100.00 it says it has already 
paid her -  £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman