DRN-4281595
The complaint
Mr T has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund a transaction he 
didnt make.
What happened
In April 2023 Mr T was out in a nightclub and had his phone stolen. The following morning he 
reported this to Halifax at 09:05. He noted money had been transferred from his ISA account 
with Halifax and then £5,000 sent to his account with another bank (who Ill call R). 
Halifax refused to refund £5,000 as this was sent to another account in Mr Ts name. They 
did refund four disputed transactions, using Mr Ts debit card details, which took place early 
in the morning. Mr T brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but as the money in dispute had gone to another 
account in Mr Ts name, he didnt believe it would be fair to ask Halifax to refund Mr T.
Mr T didnt agree with this outcome and has asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. He was also able to confirm the status of the police investigation into what had 
happened.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 September explaining that although I was upholding 
the complaint, I wasnt asking Halifax to do anything further.
Both Mr T and Halifax accepted this outcome. I now have all I need to complete my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking and reflects both Halifax and Mr T accepting the provisional 
outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ts complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing else specific in 
Mr Ts case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions as well 
as what Halifax and Mr T have confirmed to us. Specifically I can see:
Mr T has told us his phone went missing during the evening of 1 April 2023 (or early 
morning of 2 April) after a night out with friends. 
Mr Ts email address with R, along with his Apple ID were changed in the early hours 
of 2 April. His ability to use the find his phone feature was also disabled.
What followed was many transactions Mr T has said he didnt make. These were 
made using his phone and app with Apple Pay and included online transfers from 
within Mr Ts account with Halifax and then £5,000 to his account with R as well as a 
purchase for £7,141 in a shop in London.
Mr T was able to get refunds of Uber transactions direct from Halifax as they 
accepted these were not him. Halifax wouldnt refund £5,000 as this was transferred 
to Mr Ts own Revolut account.
Two small (£1) transactions were also refunded by Halifax in error as Mr T initially 
was unclear about whether he authorised these. Hes confirmed he did make these 
payments, but Halifax hasnt insisted on this small amount being returned.
Evidence from Halifax shows Mr T reported fraud with them just after 9am. So I see 
no reason to doubt Mr T when he says he tried to report what happened with his 
phone to R that morning and before the disputed transaction with them even took 
place.
Mr T reported what happened to the police. Theyve been able to confirm that 
transactions made at a garage and within the shop in London were not carried out by 
Mr T. Other evidence shows Mr T couldnt have been in London at the time of the 
disputed transaction.
I have considered whether Halifax can hold Mr T responsible because theres no simple 
explanation for how the payments were made without his involvement as our investigator 
has suggested. However the test under the PSRs isnt whether I can exactly pinpoint how 
the fraud happened but whether these transactions were authorised by Mr T. And I believe 
there are various scenarios which explain how his password could have been known  
particularly if Mr Ts phone had been targeted by fraudsters during the evening. I also note 
the details that were changed after the fraudsters initially accessed Mr Ts phone which 
shows they tried to limit Mr Ts ability to access his own accounts.
Ive also considered the nature of the disputed transactions. These clearly follow the type of 
transactions we see when fraud is being committed. Transfers were made in the early hours 
of the morning. I dont believe that these transfers were anything but out of character for 
Mr T, as were the rest of the transactions that followed. Whilst we need to be careful about 
saying certain payment patterns look like fraud, in this case Im in no doubt what happened 
here matches fraud-related activity.
When money was transferred from Mr Ts Halifax accounts, this was money Mr T had been 
saving for his future. I can see no reason why Mr T would spend this himself. 
I have considered whether Mr T may have authorised these transactions but if this were the 
case, hed have to have committed extensive and varied first party fraud  with the 
involvement of a third party  and I dont see any reasons for him doing this.Putting things right
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied Mr T didnt authorise the disputed transactions. 
However as the money was transferred to Mr Ts own account with another bank, Im not 
asking Halifax to do anything further. Mr Ts complaint with R is being dealt with as another 
complaint with the ombudsman service.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to uphold Mr Ts complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman