DRN-3042706
The complaint
Mr B and Miss F complain that GE Money Home Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr B and Miss F bought a timeshare membership from a business I will call C, in July 2005. 
The discounted cost of the timeshare was £17,891 and that was paid for by a loan of 
£17,891 from GE Money. The loan was in joint names and set to run for some 182 months. I 
gather the loan wasnt paid to C, but to a different business, CR, that was said to act as a 
stakeholder.
The representatives for Mr B and Miss F have made lengthy and wide ranging submissions 
and I will provide a brief summary of the key points of their complaint. They say they were 
pressurised into making the purchase. They say said that when they took out the timeshare 
they were told that they could use the points they purchased to fund holidays, but this proved 
not to be as easy as promised. They also say they were told they could sell the timeshare or 
it could be passed on. Details of maintenance costs were not made clear. 
So Mr B and Miss F said that C misrepresented to them at the time of sale the benefits of the 
timeshare and breached its agreement with them in not supplying what had been agreed. Mr 
B and Miss F said that had they known what C said wasnt right, they would not have taken 
out the membership in the first place.
In October 2017, Mr B and Miss F, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It 
responded to say Mr B and Miss F had given insufficient details of the alleged 
misrepresentations. It also said there was no debtor-creditor-supplier link. GE Money said 
that the acquisition had been made in 2005 and the loan had been paid off in 2006 and this 
meant the complaint had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in 
the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 had been made in time, but it had 
been brought too late as set out by the LA, so they didnt think GE Money needed to 
consider the substance of the claim. They also looked at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think 
that provision applied as the loan predated the enactment of that provision.
Mr B and Miss Fs representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint had 
been brought in time. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to tell GE 
Money to do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr B and Miss F, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr B and Miss F to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered 
under s.140A CCA. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this case, 
as the supplier of the timeshare was C, but the loan proceeds went to a different business, 
CR, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr B and Miss Fs 
claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of 
the service (C) and the business that took the payment CR). But Ive not gone on to make a 
finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right relationships in place for the 
claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr B and Miss F said that C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement and or breached its agreement with them, so they say GE Money is 
jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of 
the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr 
B and Miss F may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for 
the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in 
turning down Mr B and Miss Fs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr B and Miss F brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim 
was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr B and Miss 
F had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr B and Miss Fs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
July 2005. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of C. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they 
wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they 
took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in July 2005, so Mr B and Miss F 
had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their 
claim until October 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think GE 
Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The limitation period for a claim for breach of contract is six years from the date a cause of 
action accrued as set out in s.5 LA. Here Mr B and Miss F brought a like claim against GE 
Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 
LA. Again, it means Mr B and Miss F had six years from the date on which the case of action 
accrued to being a claim against GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in July 2005, so Mr B and Miss F 
had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their 
claim until October 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think GE 
Money acted fairly in turning down this breach of contract claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr B and Miss F could have made a claim under 
s.140A CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their credit 
agreement. 
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act sets 
out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement had 
completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of 
that credit agreement. GE Money has said that Mr B and Miss Fs agreement was paid off in 
2006, so I dont think they are able to make a claim under s.140A.
GE Money didnt consider any s.140A CCA claim and I think it should have done so, so I 
cant say it acted fairly in not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So, I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.
Mr B and Miss Fs arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mr B and Miss F may say they didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to 
above in the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the 
limitation period. Mr B and Miss Fs representatives made several arguments why they dont 
think our investigator is correct about limitation. I will deal with each in turn.
They argue that under s.11A LA, time didnt start to run for limitation purposes for Mr B and 
Miss F until they first had knowledge that they could start proceeding against GE Money. 
This provision is titled Actions in respect of defective products and applies to an action 
for damages by virtue of Part 1 of the Consumer Protection Act 1987. However, this applies to actions that arise out of products and not services such as timeshares, so I dont think it 
assists Mr B and Miss F. Neither in my view does s.14 LA, which simply defines what is 
meant by date of knowledge in other provisions that dont apply to Mr B and Miss Fs claim.
Im not persuaded that s14A LA applies to Mr B and Miss Fs claim. That provision provides 
for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what 
happened, when Mr B and Miss F purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think 
there was an obligation to give Mr B and Miss F sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not 
persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to 
which s.14A LA could apply.
Commission
I have also considered what Mr B and Miss F says about the amount of commission that 
might have been paid by GE Money to C for arranging the loan  they think GE Money 
should have told them about that. GE Money says it doesnt have details of what, if anything, 
was paid in Mr B and Miss Fs case due to the passage of time.
From what Ive seen across the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low 
and of less than 10%. Im satisfied GE Money didnt breach any duty in making such a 
payment  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in 
these circumstances. And I dont think the levels of commission that are normally paid in this 
situation were sufficiently high to mean that GE Money should have appreciated not 
disclosing commission to Mr B and Miss F risked the relationship being unfair under section 
140A.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr B 
and Miss F may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as 
far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr B and Miss F might have 
against the supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the 
LA . I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not 
persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mr B and Miss F say it was irresponsible of GE Money to provide this loan and proper credit 
checks were not carried out. I cant see that Mr B and Miss F has provided much by way of 
further evidence about this in response to the view. They have told us the level of their joint 
income and that of itself does not indicate the loan was unaffordable. I have noted this, but 
this service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider complaints about the affordability of this 
type of loan taken out prior to the change in regulation on 6 April 2007. As such I cannot 
comment on the issue of affordability.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr B and Miss Fs complaint against GE Money 
Home Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman