DRN-3478411
The complaint
Mr O complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car after it
was judged a total loss, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Os car was damaged in a fire in December 2020. He made a claim to Advantage. It
determined the car was a total loss and valued it at £1,850. Mr O thought it was worth more.
Mr O says his car is rare and its difficult to find the same specification of car in a similar
condition. He says from researching various online sites a similar car will sell for around
£4,000. Mr O says he cant replace the car for the payment Advantage is offering and
doesnt think this is fair.
Advantage says its usual approach is to base its valuation on values confirmed by the
industry guides. But because of the age of the car none of the guides were able to give a
figure. It says its engineer based its settlement offer on a valuation from a classic car guide,
using the engineers view that the car was in an average condition.
Advantage says it didnt think the for-sale information sent by Mr O gave an accurate
indication of the price of his car. It says the condition, mileage and age of these cars all differ
from his and that advertised examples are unreliable as they dont reflect achieved sale
prices, only what sellers hope to sell for.
Advantage didnt change its position, so Mr O referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld his complaint. She found that one of the established trade guides was
able to give a valuation, and this was for £2,778. She thought it fair that the settlement
payment should be based on this figure with reasonable deductions to reflect pre-existing
damage to the car.
Advantage didnt think the guide our investigator relied upon was accurate. It says it doesnt
reflect the condition of Mr Os car, which had several areas of pre-existing damage. It says
parts for cars of this age are expensive and difficult to obtain, which means condition has a
significant impact on its value. Advantage says the classics guide its engineer used, which 
includes an assessment of condition, is a more reliable way to value Mr Os car.
Advantage asked for an ombudsman to review Mr Os complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Os complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is to consider whether Advantage has applied a fair and reasonable approach
to valuing Mr Os car. The policy terms say:
Youre covered for fire, theft, attempted theft or lightning damage to your Car/s. If your Car
is damaged or lost because of theft, attempted theft, fire or lightning there are four ways your
Policy can help you get back on the road again. Your Insurer will do one of the following:
Pay for any necessary repairs Replace your Car Repair the damage Pay the Market
Value of your Car immediately before the loss.
Advantage determined the car to be a total loss. As a result, it offered what it thought the
market value would be immediately prior to the fire.
The policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you
bought it.
Advantage says the trade guides it uses couldnt value the car because of its age. Mr Os car
is over 30 years old. So, its engineer used a classic car trade guide. It says its engineer
assessed Mr Os car to be in an, average condition based on the definitions used by this
guide.
The definitions are:
Good condition  means well presented cars that have no obvious faults
Average condition  cars are capable of regular use They have a current MoT certificate but
will need work and/or original parts.
Poor condition  cars usually need a full rebuild but may be driveable and MoTd.
Advantages engineer highlights several areas of pre-existing wear and damage with Mr Os
car. This includes a soiled interior, damaged driver side seat, dented rear bumper, dented
right rear quarter panel and the left front wing which is a different colour to the rest of the car.
Because of this he thought the car fell within the definition of average condition.
I have looked at the photos included with the engineers report. I think the photos support the
condition of the car as described by the engineer.
We checked for valuations with the trade guides. Only one valuation was available due to
the age of Mr Os car. This gave a market value of £2,778. Advantage says this valuation
doesnt take into account the condition of the car. And points to several damaged areas its
engineer highlighted.
I have considered the information Mr O provided showing similar cars for sale. But
advertised sale prices are not generally a reliable indicator of market value. This is because
they are based on the sale price a seller hopes to achieve, not what a car actually sells for.
The examples Mr O has shown also differ widely from his car, in relation to condition,
mileage and specification. I accept his comments that the car is rare which makes it difficult
to provide comparisons. But I dont think this information reliably shows what the market
value of his car is, or that Advantages valuation was unreasonable.Advantage estimates that Mr Os car needs £2,308.85 worth of repairs to rectify the issues
identified by its engineer. I agree with its view that the condition of a car will have an impact
on its value. But I must also consider that Mr Os car is considered a classic and is over 30
years old. I think its likely that buyers will accept some wear and tear to be present.
If I take the higher valuation from the trade guide and take away Advantages estimated
repair costs the residual value of the car will be just over £400. I dont think this would be a
fair reflection of the market value for this type and condition of car. The approach taken in
the classic guide, used by Advantage, was to give an overall condition rating. I think this
approach is fairer when considering the impact the condition of the car will have on its
market value.
There is a significant difference between the trade guide valuation we found for £2,778 and
Advantages valuation at £1,850. Valuation is not an exact science particularly for older
classic cars such as Mr Os. The approach we expect to take is to compare several different
valuations from the established motor trade guides, along with consideration of the condition,
specification and any other relevant factors. This then gives a good indicator of whether the
insurer has arrived at a fair valuation.
In this case there is one valuation from the industry guides we generally refer to and the
valuation Advantage provided based on the classic car guide it used.
In the circumstances described I dont think Advantages approach to valuing Mr Os car was
unreasonable. Most of the usual trade guides didnt provide a value for the car due to its
age. Im also mindful that the trade guide valuation we obtained doesnt clearly acknowledge
the damage and issues the engineer inspection identified with Mr Os car.
Having considered all of this I think the fairest approach is to use the classic car guide, and
an overall assessment of the cars condition, to arrive at its market value. This is the
approach Advantage has taken, which on balance I think is reasonable. So, I cant fairly ask
Advantage to do anything differently.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr Os complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Advantage responded to say it had no further comments to make. 
Mr O responded to say that he has researched some auctions of the same model car he 
had. He says this shows what good examples cost in the real world, in order to dispute the 
valuation I referred to in my provisional decision. 
Mr O says the engineers report used by Advantage seems a bit unfair with reference to the 
interior of the car being soiled. He says he doesnt think it considered that the firemen 
flooded the car to put the fire out. He says this damage wasnt present at the time he took 
the insurance policy out, it happened during the event that led to his claim. He says this 
should be considered when determining the value of his car. 
Mr O doesnt think Advantage has been fair because it hasnt provided him with a payment 
that allows him to replace his car with one of a similar condition. He says the valuation our 
service obtained for £2,778 seems fair as this is similar to what he paid for the car originally. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about the information Mr O provided that shows several cars for sale. One is 
for sale for £13,000 but I dont think this is comparable to Mr Os car as its advertised to be 
in excellent condition throughout. Its also covered far fewer miles. The other cars are 
damaged. I understand Mr O has supplied these adverts as they include reference to the 
estimated retail values, which is stated to be between £3,600 and £4,000 for similar models 
to his. 
I understand that Mr O feels strongly that his car is worth more than the valuation Advantage 
arrived at using the classic car trade guide, with an assessment that it was in average 
condition. I explained in my provisional decision that I have looked at the information Mr O 
had supplied showing similar cars for sale. I said that advertised sale prices are not 
generally a reliable indicator of market value. This is because they are based on what a 
seller hopes to achieve not what a car actually sells for. Although I have considered the 
further information Mr O has supplied, I dont think this demonstrates that the approach 
Advantage used to value his car was unfair.
In my provisional decision I said that the classic car guide Advantage used considered the 
condition of the car, which I thought was reasonable. Whereas the valuation we obtained for 
£2,778 didnt consider condition. Advantage estimated £2,308.85 worth of repairs were 
needed. I didnt think deducting this from the valuation would be a fair representation of the 
market value. This would leave a residual value of around £400. In the circumstances I 
thought Advantages approach was fairer. 
Its clear from the engineers report a number of issues were found with Mr Os car that 
would likely impact on its value. I take his point that some of the soiling internally couldve 
been caused when the fire was put out. But the engineer found several issues with the 
condition of the car in addition to the soiled interior. Having considered this, Im not 
persuaded by Mr Os comments that the average condition rating used for his car was unfair. 
Im sorry Mr O has been unable to find a replacement car for the settlement payment he was 
offered. I highlighted in my provisional decision that his policy terms allow Advantage to use 
the trade guides to assess the market value of his car and to make allowances based on its 
condition. In the circumstances described I think Advantage behaved fairly in the approach it 
took to valuing Mr Os car. Im not persuaded to change my decision based on his further 
comments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman