DRN-3443319
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint concerns a guarantee charge applied to her Prudential Initial Charge 
Bond (the bond) with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). 
Mrs C is represented by Mr C. For ease of reference, all references to Mrs C (the 
complainant) will include submissions and evidence provided by her representative, Mr C, 
acting on her behalf. 
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat 
that again here. Instead Ill concentrate my decision on the findings of this case. 
Mrs C didnt respond to my provisional findings. Prudential responded saying it had nothing 
further to add. 
So, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence to my provisional findings, my decision 
remains that I dont uphold this complaint.
The reasons for this were set out in my provisional decision. The relevant extract from my 
provisional decision which now forms part of my final decision, is as follows: 
The bond was taken out a long time ago and Prudential has confirmed it does not hold point 
of sale documents from 1994. But Prudential has confirmed that this guarantee charge has 
always applied to the with-profit fund but wasnt reported to investors until 2018. At this point, 
following the Financial Conduct Authoritys review about the fair treatment of long-standing 
customers within the life assurance sector, Prudential reviewed its annual benefits 
statements. Some of the changes it made focused on being more transparent about the 
charges it applies. 
So, Prudential says the amounts now showing in Mrs Cs statements arent new charges. It 
also says the guarantee charges arent specific deductions to her plan. Rather this is a fund 
related charge and will be taken into account as part of regular and final bonus calculations. 
Prudential says the amount shown in Mrs Cs statement is indicative of the charge that will 
be applied to the fund. And only shown in more recent statements as part of the requirement 
to be more transparent to investors. 
Because the plan has certain guarantees such as there will be no market value reduction on 
the death of a bond holder, there is a charge for this and other guarantees. Nonetheless, 
I can understand why this has caused Mrs C concern. From what I can see Prudential hadnt 
provided any context as to why this charge started to appear on statements or in its KFD. 
I can see that a recent KFD from 2020 does refer to it where it says:
There is a charge to pay for all the guarantees the With-Profits Fund supports. We 
guarantee not to apply a Market Value Reduction (MVR) when payments are made because 
of death. Our current MVR practice, which is not guaranteed, may include additional 
circumstances when an MVR is not applied. Please see "Market Value Reduction" for more 
details.
The total deduction for guarantee charges over the lifetime of your bond is not currently 
more than 2% of any payment made from the fund. Our charges may vary in the future and 
may be higher than they are now. Charges may vary if, for example, the long term mix or 
type of assets held within the With-Profits Fund is changed.
We take this charge by making a small adjustment to regular and final bonuses.
An almost identical explanation appeared in Mrs Cs July 2019 and 2020 annual statements, 
which prompted her to complain. 
From what I can see, the guarantee charge explanation, doesnt appear in earlier documents 
provided by Prudential to this service. The earliest terms and conditions document 
Prudential could provide is dated 2001. I cant see any mention of the guarantee charge in 
this document. However, this doesnt mean it hasnt always been applicable to the with-
profits fund. I think its more likely than not, given the guarantees which apply to the plan, 
this charge has always been applicable in certain circumstances, but has only recently been 
made explicit following the regulators thematic review.
I appreciate this is far from ideal, but I dont think Prudential is incorrect to place a charge for 
the guarantees the plan comes with. And I dont think just because it wasnt explicitly set out 
in its earlier terms that it cannot now apply the charge. From what Ive seen, Prudential has 
carried out the management of the fund and applied charges in a way Id expect to see a 
financial business managing a with-profits fund to do. Im not persuaded that Prudential are 
being unfair in applying the indicative charges to the fund when calculating the final or 
regular bonuses. 
On this latter point, I should make clear to Mrs C that the charge hasnt been made to her 
specific investment. Rather the charges are made to the fund itself. The explanations in the 
recent KFD and Mrs Cs annual statements make this clear where it says: We take this 
charge by making a small adjustment to regular and final bonuses. 
As Prudential has said, the charges showing in her statements were indicative of the size of 
the charge that would be applied when the bonuses are calculated. So, as Prudential has 
also said, a refund cant be given to Mrs C as nothing was taken from her bond for this 
charge when she made the withdrawal. Instead, the level of bonuses, which arent 
guaranteed, will be reduced by this indicative amount. 
As I noted above, neither party has provided anything further in support of their case. So, my 
decision remains that I dont think Prudential has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman