DRN-1730336
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clarkewood Limited are chasing him for a fee when he didnt 
understand the agreement he was taking out.
What happened
In 2018, Mr B entered into an agreement with Clarkewood, a claims management company, 
to make a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). His claim was successful 
and Clarkewood sent Mr B an invoice for its fees.
Mr B didnt pay these fees and so Clarkewood issued reminders and debt collection notices 
in 2019. Mr Bs representative got in touch with Clarkewood to explain Mr Bs situation. Mr B 
is terminally ill with a condition that Clarkewood was made aware of. The illness has made 
him vulnerable to infections, and at the time he entered into the agreement for the claim he 
was confused. The agreement was entered into over the telephone and Mr B has said he 
thought he was speaking to his lender directly.
Mr Bs representative made a complaint as Mr B cannot pay the fee, hes terminally ill and 
lives with his daughter. He has no ability to work, and will never be in a position where he 
could get the money to pay this fee.
Our investigator felt that the fee, which should be lowered to the fee cap amount of 20% plus 
VAT, is justified as the claim had been submitted by Clarkewood. However, in Mr Bs 
circumstances it would be fair and reasonable to waive that fee. Clarkewood was aware that 
Mr B had a serious health condition, and that condition is terminal. His health has 
deteriorated such that he will not be in a position to work or earn the money to be able to pay 
the fee. And at this particular time in his life, it would not be fair to chase him for something 
he cannot pay, especially as his situation wont improve.
Clarkewood disagreed and said it should be paid for the work it had done. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has a remit to determine what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
each individual complaint we look at. Ive done that here. It isnt in dispute that Clarkewood 
submitted a successful claim to Mr Bs lenders. So, I understand why its chasing a fee. In 
normal circumstances, it would be reasonable to do that. However, in this particular situation 
I dont think its fair to continue to chase this debt. Ill explain why.
Mr B is terminally ill. This means his health isnt going to improve but rather deteriorate. And 
it has deteriorated whilst this complaint has been investigated. Mr B has been diagnosed 
with an additional life-threatening disease whilst suffering from this terminal illness and Clarkewood was made aware of this. He is being supported by his daughter currently and its 
clear that the chasing of the debt is adding stress during a very difficult time.
Mr Bs situation means he wont be able to pay the fee to Clarkewood. He is living on 
benefits with his daughter and his illness means he wont be able to work again in his life. 
Ive also been informed that Mr B is currently hospitalised with his condition. So, whilst I 
dont doubt that under ordinary circumstances Clarkewood could charge a fee for the work 
its done, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in these specific circumstances to 
continue to chase for a fee that its clear wont be paid. It would be reasonable in this 
situation for Clarkewood to waive the fee and stop chasing Mr B during the time he has left.
Mr Bs representative has said that he didnt understand the agreement he was taking out. 
But Ive not determined whether this was the case here because Ive already explained why 
it would be fair and reasonable for Clarkewood to waive the fee in these specific 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Clarkewood Limited must stop chasing Mr B and waive its success fee.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Clarkewood Limited should waive the 
fee that Mr B owes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman