DRN-4005676
The complaint
Mr M and Miss T complain about the decision by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to turn 
down their travel insurance claim for stolen items.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy doesnt cover the loss of valuables, cash or important documents left unattended 
unless deposited in a safe, safety deposit box or left in locked accommodation. 
The policy defines unattended as:
When you are not in full view of and not in a position to prevent unauthorised interference 
with your property or vehicle.
Mr M and Miss T had their bag (containing valuables, cash and important documents) stolen 
whilst they were on the beach. 
Ive read the police report that Mr M and Miss T filed soon after the theft. The report was 
completed by Mr M. He said they left the bag on their towel with the rest of their things, and 
then we went into the water and came back out and then we believe we saw someone 
prowling around our things. We came back out and came towards our things but the bag had 
been stolen.
I think its apparent from this that Mr M and Miss T were not in a position to prevent the bag 
from being stolen, and therefore the bag was unattended. 
Mr M later told IPA that there was a towel on the beach where all the belongings were kept, 
and he was there with the belongings. However, there were other people as well and he was 
talking to them. He said he then saw someone take the belongings. 
Miss T told this service that Mr M went into the sea, and she remained with the bag, and it 
was stolen from under her hand. 
Given the different recollections about what happened, I think it was reasonable for IPA to 
rely on the police report. This was completed soon after the theft, and therefore most likely 
contained an accurate description of what had happened. 
I note Mr M and Miss T say they found it hard to communicate with the police due to the 
language barrier. However, the police report was written in English by Mr M. So I dont think 
the language barrier had any impact on what was written in the report by Mr M.
Im therefore satisfied it was reasonable for IPA to conclude that the bag was left 
unattended, and turn down the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman