DRN-1632444
 
The complaint
Ms B and Mr N are unhappy with how Kindertons Ltd dealt with the repairs to their car 
following a road traffic accident. 
What happened
Ms B and Mr Ns car (the car) was involved in a road traffic accident in May 2019  while 
parked unattended next to a kerb, another vehicle rolled down a steep drive way and hit the 
passenger side of the car. Kindertons were instructed to deal with the repairs to the car.
After the repairs were done, Ms B and Mr N noticed a problem with the steering. Kindertons 
inspected the car and said this wasnt accident related. But Ms B and Mr N had the car 
inspected themselves and were told there was secondary damage which was accident 
related. Theyve paid to have this damage repaired.
Ms B and Mr N have complained that the problem with the steering wasnt there before the 
accident, and that Kindertons havent repaired all of the accident damage.
Our investigator found Kindertons couldve done better. She felt there was sufficient 
evidence to suggest that the secondary damage was accident related  the impact of the 
accident had shunted the car into the kerb, which had damaged the rear drivers side wheel 
and suspension. So she recommended Kindertons reimburse Ms B and Mr N for the cost of 
the secondary damage repairs.
Kindertons didnt agree with the investigator. They dont believe that the impact of the 
accident would be sufficient to cause the secondary damage. They also say that Ms B and 
Mr Ns repairer cant say how the dent to the damaged wheel occurred, because they 
werent present when the accident happened. 
They also dont believe the repairer is independent, because Ms B and Mr N have used 
them before; and they dont accept their opinion because theyre not an accredited 
inspecting engineer who identifies damages to relate to insurance claims. Because of this 
theyve asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Kindertons say Ms B and Mr Ns repairer wasnt present at the time of the accident, so they 
cant say how the dent to the damaged wheel was caused. But Kindertons, who also werent 
present at the time of the accident, feel that the force of the impact wasnt sufficient to cause 
the damage to the wheel. I find Kindertons logic to be contradictory  its either possible for someone well versed in 
dealing with accident damage, but who wasnt there at the time of the accident, to say whats 
likely to have caused damage or its not. And as Kindertons rely upon reports from engineers 
who werent present at accidents all the time, I accept that it is possible for someone well 
versed in dealing with accident damage to say how some particular damage likely occurred. 
And I dont think that, just because someone has dealt with a customer for some time, or just 
because they dont work for a company that produces reports for insurance companies, this 
makes their professional opinion less valid. So Ill consider the report from Kindertons 
engineer and the report from the repairers with equal weight.
The photos of the car after the accident show badly dented body panels on the passenger 
side. A report from Kindertons garage who did the original repairs refers to the severity of 
impact as being medium, and the direction of impact being diagonally across the car, from 
the passenger side towards the rear drivers side wheel.
Kindertons engineers report of 17 May 2019 says the report has been compiled from a 
desktop review of the information available. This information would include Ms B and Mr Ns 
statement, and photos of the damage. But theres nothing to show me that the engineer 
physically inspected the car. And in a letter dated 26 June 2019, sent in relation to the 
secondary damage, the engineer says we are unable to confirm the relation of this concern 
to the accident  our initial notification did not advise of any damage to the drivers side, nor 
was it reported that the vehicle had taken a secondary impact to the drivers side.
Based on what Ive seen, it would seem that everything was initially focussed on the damage 
to the passenger side of the car, and it looks as if no-one considered any secondary damage 
that couldve been caused by the impact. Even though there were pictures taken during the 
initial repair that show damage to the rear drivers side wheel. 
Theres also a Graphic Alignment Report, done on 31 May 2019. This shows the rear drivers 
side wheel is misaligned and at an angle, as if it had been struck inwards from the bottom. 
This would be consistent with wheel being pushed with force into a solid object, such as a 
kerb.
The repairers instructed by Ms B and Mr R have said that, after inspecting the car we 
discovered that the stub axle was bent in a downward direction. In our professional opinion 
this would of occurred with huge force being put on it, there was/is a dent on the outside of 
the OSR wheel rim which would indicate that the wheel had impacted a kerb during the 
collision the vehicle suffered. This would be a clear cause of the stub axle being bent.
While Im not an expert in accident damage, I can say with certainty that when a stationary 
vehicle is hit by a moving vehicle of a similar/greater size and weight etc., it will move in the 
direction of the impact. And in this case, this means the car wouldve moved towards the 
kerb, with the direction of travel being towards the rear drivers side wheel. So its highly 
likely that the rear drivers side wheel wouldve struck the kerb. And the evidence points to a 
secondary impact on the rear drivers side wheel as being highly likely.
Given this, its my conclusion that the car suffered secondary damage in the accident, 
damage that wasnt considered by anyone at the time. So it was missed in the initial 
inspection and not repaired when it shouldve been.
Ms B and Mr N have had the damage to the car repaired. Ive seen the invoice which says 
investigate wheel bearing failed offside rear, upon removing bearing find offside rear stub 
axle bent due to accident damage, brake disc touching rad carrier. But the invoice also says investigate knocking from nearside front, find nearside front shock shaft has excessive play 
in shock casing.
So, this invoice covers the cost of accident related and non-accident related damage. 
Kindertons cant be held responsible for the costs of repair to the front nearside shock 
absorber as this would be general wear and tear. So, of the £673.99 invoice costs, only 
£277.03 relates to the accident damage.
Putting things right
Kindertons should pay Ms B and Mr N £277.03, to reimburse them for the cost of the 
secondary accident damage which has now been repaired. They should also pay them 8% 
annual simple interest from the date Ms B and Mr N paid the invoice to the date of 
reimbursement. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Ms B and Mr Ns complaint. Kindertons Ltd must 
follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman