DRN-2942477
The complaint
Mr B complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt apply his no claims discount correctly to 
his car insurance policy, unfairly cancelled it and has left an outstanding balance on it. Mr B 
also complains UKI wouldnt let him pay by instalments on the car insurance policy he took 
out subsequently.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr B and UKI so Ill summarise what I 
think are the main points:
No claims discount
Mr B set up his policy online on 13 January 2019, saying he had eight years no 
claims discount. 
On 12 February 2019, UKI wrote to Mr B saying it was still waiting for evidence of his 
no claims discount. It o said if it didnt get in 10 days it would increase his premium. 
On 26 February 2019, UKI wrote to Mr B again saying it hadnt had his proof and his 
premium would be increased by just over £800 if it didnt get the proof within 14 days. 
When UKI didnt get the proof, it increased Mr Bs premium. 
A few days after this, UKIs internal records show a three-way call between UKI, Mr B 
and his previous insurer to get oral confirmation of Mr Bs no claims discount. These 
records show the call dropped before the previous insurer gave the confirmation. 
UKIs records show a further call in which Mr B says he will send in his proof. UKI got 
Mr Bs proof on 29 April 2019. His premium was reduced on the same day.
Mr B says he attached his proof twice and emailed it once before it was successfully 
acknowledged by UKI on 29 April. He says he made several phone calls to UKI to 
say his proof wasnt uploading. 
Cancellation
Mr B paid for his first policy by instalments. He missed paying a number of these. 
UKI wrote to Mr B saying if he didnt make a missed payment, it would cancel his 
policy. UKI says it didnt hear from Mr B and so cancelled his policy.
Outstanding balance
Mr B made a claim on his policy in May 2019. UKI says this means the full years 
premium on his policy was due, even though it was cancelled part-way through. It 
says thats why theres an outstanding balance.
Mr B is unhappy the outstanding balance is adversely affecting his credit rating.
Lump sum
Mr B is unhappy he hasnt been able to pay by instalments on his new insurance 
policy with UKI.
UKI says this is because its underwriting criteria doesnt allow payment by 
instalments when a previous policy has been cancelled for non-payment.
UKI has paid Mr B £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused 
when a call-back he was promised wasnt made within the timeframe UKI gave. But 
otherwise it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, saying it had done everything correctly. 
When Mr B brought his complaint to us, the investigator who looked at it didnt think we 
could look into Mr Bs complaint about the policy cancellation. And he didnt think UKI had 
done anything wrong in relation to Mr Bs other complaint points. Mr B doesnt agree and so 
hes asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered whether we are able to look at certain aspects of this complaint.
Ive decided I cant consider Mr Bs complaint about his policy cancellation. And Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr Bs other complaint points. Ill explain why looking at each separately.
Cancellation
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't free to look at every complaint that's brought to us. 
We're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. They set out 
the complaints that we can (and can't) investigate. 
The rule that is of relevance to this complaint is DISP 2.8.2 which sets out several time 
limits. It states that: The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers 
it to the Financial Ombudsman Service: (1) more than six months after the date on which the 
respondent sent the complainant its final response, redress determination or summary 
resolution communication.
UKI sent Mr B its final response to his complaint about the cancellation of the first policy on 
22 October 2019. It sent Mr B its final response to his other complaint points on 25 
November 2020. Mr B referred all his complaint points to us on 21 January 2021. So, Mr B 
referred his complaint about the policy cancellation to us more than six months after UKI 
sent him its final response on it. The only circumstances in which I could look at this part of 
Mr Bs complaint is if either UKI has given its consent or where there are exceptional 
circumstances. UKI hasnt given its consent and Ive seen no evidence there are exceptional 
circumstances for why this complaint was brought to us outside of the time. That means I 
cant look at Mr Bs complaint about his policy cancellation.
No claims discountAs Ive outlined already, UKI says Mr B didnt give it proof of his no claims discount until 
around two months after it first wrote to him saying he needed to send it within 10 days or his 
premium would increase.
Mr B says he tried repeatedly to upload his proof of no claims discount but UKIs system 
wasnt working properly and wouldnt allow him to.
Mr B hasnt been able to give us any evidence of his failed attempts to upload his proof. And, 
although he thinks there were calls between him and UKI before those Ive already referred 
to above, again, hes given us no evidence of these. 
UKI says the internal records its given us are all the dates a member of its staff entered     
Mr Bs file between February and April 2019. These show only the contacts with Mr B that 
Ive already referred to  theres nothing about earlier calls. And UKI says it was unaware of 
any issues with uploading documents at the time.
Its standard industry practice for an insurer to request proof of no claims discount from a 
policyholder before it applies any discounts. From what Ive seen, UKI wrote to Mr B twice 
asking him to send in proof within what I think was a reasonable timeframe. It also told him 
his premium would increase if he didnt which, again, I think is reasonable. And UKI 
participated in call with Mr B and his previous insurer to try to get oral confirmation of the 
discount. 
So I can see UKI extended its original deadline for Mr B to send in his proof of no claims 
discount before increasing his premium and it also tried to engage with his previous insurer 
to get the proof. And when UKI did get Mr Bs proof, it immediately applied the discount.
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think the actions UKI took here were unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Outstanding balance
Mr B is unhappy theres an outstanding balance on his account from his first car insurance 
policy. 
Mr Bs car insurance policy says if hes made a claim, or had one made against him, before 
the date UKI cancelled his policy, he must pay (1) all instalments that are due under his 
credit agreement and are unpaid, and (2) the total remaining balance under the credit 
agreement.
This is a standard term in car insurance policies and Ive seen nothing to make me think UKI 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on it in Mr Bs case.
I understand Mr B has recently queried the amount of the outstanding balance on his 
account, and how its reflected in a credit report he has. This is a query he should raise first 
with UKI. And, if hes unhappy with its response, he can bring any complaint he has about it 
to us.
Lump sum payment
When Mr B took out a new policy with UKI, following the cancellation of the first one, he had 
to pay for it in full, rather than in instalments  which he wouldve preferred.
UKI has shown us its underwriting criteria. This shows a policyholder can pay by 10 monthly 
instalments and a deposit if he or she hasnt missed more than one payment in the preceding 12 months. UKI has given us information to show Mr B had missed more than one 
payment on his first insurance policy.
So I dont think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in requiring Mr B to pay for the 
second policy in full at the outset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about how UKI has dealt with his 
no claims discount, his outstanding balance and his lump sum payment under his car 
insurance policies.
Also for the reasons Ive given, we cant look into Mr Bs complaint about the cancellation of 
his first car insurance policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman