DRN-4109402
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Cambrian Associates Limited 
(Cambrian) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 27 January 2023 in which I set out the
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits in the scheme, one of which was a transfer to 
the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. 
Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr C, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr C to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Cs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS were as follows:
He had accrued 14 years and 6 months qualifying service between September 2002 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his 
annual scheme pension was £8,892.06. The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount. 
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60. The reduction wasnt a penalty but applied to reflect the fact that the scheme 
would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the 
interests of scheme members generally;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at age 65 was 
£19,798 or a reduced pension of £13,121, plus tax-free cash of £87,473. And at age 
60 it was £14,367 or a reduced pension of £9,863, plus tax-free cash of £65,758;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £213,548.15. 
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and the prospect that the scheme might fall into the 
PPF. He contacted Cambrian for advice. He initially met one of its advisers in October 2017. 
A fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire were completed which recorded the 
following information about Mr C:
He was aged 32, in good health, married and had one financially dependent daughter 
aged 2. His wife was aged 34 and also in good health;
He was employed by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about £35,000. His 
wife was self-employed and her business generated net profit of about £6,000 per 
year;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £130,000. They didnt have any 
other savings or investments;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £109,000 on the marital home 
which was due to be repaid in about 20 years time and unsecured debts of about 
£11,000;
They had surplus monthly income of about £420 after paying for essential 
expenditure;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full State pension at age 68 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since March 2017. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary. This would 
increase in line with changes to his salary. He wanted to retire at age 60 and receive 
annual retirement income of £30,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms. His wife 
didnt have any private or workplace pension arrangements;
He had very limited knowledge and experience of investments. His capacity for loss 
was assessed as Adventurous/High. And his risk profile was determined to be 3/4 
on a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 was lowest risk and 5 was highest risk. The score of 3/4 
was described as Balanced/Growth.In the fact find document, it was noted:
[Mr C] is concerned about the future of the scheme [BSPS] and possibility of transfer 
values being reduced if the scheme goes to a new one [the BSPS2] or not being able 
to transfer out at all if it goes into the PPF. 
Also concerned about reduced death benefits for wife and daughter.
Happy to take some risk as a long time until retirement.
In November 2017, Cambrian issued a suitability report to Mr C in which it recommended 
that he transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP. The report 
confirmed Mr Cs needs and objectives in connection with his safeguarded benefits as 
follows:
1. To review the suitability of accepting the CETV and transferring out of the BSPS; 
and 
2. If suitable to invest the monies in appropriate manner which is compatible with 
your risk profile and your capacity for loss. 
3. To retire at your age 60 and achieve retirement income in your own right of 
£30,000 net per annum.
4. To have the facility to take a flexible income in retirement and to adjust your 
pension withdrawals when your state pension commences.
5. To review the suitability of your deferred benefits under the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (defined benefit scheme) in line with your objectives above.
6. To continue with your membership in your employers defined contribution scheme 
until you retire  you will then, in all likelihood, transfer this fund to the [PPP] I am 
recommending to consolidate your pension funds and take flexible pension income 
from this fund.
To align with Mr Cs Balanced/Growth risk profile, Cambrian recommended that the transfer 
value of £213,548.15 be invested in a portfolio managed on a discretionary basis. The costs 
associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report, as follows:
Initial charge
£6,000  initial adviser charge payable to Cambrian
Ongoing annual charges deducted from the PPP fund value 
The total ongoing cost was estimated to be 1.93%, as follows:
0.50% ongoing adviser charge payable to Cambrian
0.37% PPP product charge
0.74% annual management charge 
0.32% discretionary fund management charge Mr C accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed 
in February 2018. 
This complaint
In January 2021, Mr C complained to Cambrian about the suitability of the pension transfer 
advice it had given to him in November 2017. He said that the FCA had contacted him 
regarding its concerns about British Steel pension transfers and, after considering the 
information, was worried that the advice hed been given was unsuitable.
Cambrian didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that it had complied with and 
considered the FCAs rules and guidance when it advised him. It said that at the time there 
was limited information available about the proposed BSPS2 but, in any event, it was 
satisfied that maintaining safeguarded benefits wouldnt have enabled Mr C to achieve his 
objectives, particularly his flexibility and early retirement objectives. It considered that the 
pension transfer was the only viable option and was in his best interests taking into account 
his objectives and wider financial situation. In addition, it stated that the transfer removed the 
risk of his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which was another motivating 
factor for the pension transfer.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that Cambrians recommendation to transfer wasnt clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Cs best interests. He noted that the critical yield figures attached 
to the transaction indicated that it was likely Mr C would be financially worse off as a result of 
the pension transfer. He wasnt satisfied that Mr Cs objectives to retire early at age 60 and 
receive annual retirement income of £30,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms had been 
sufficiently scrutinised to justify the pension transfer. And he didnt think avoiding a transfer 
to the PPF was a justifiable reason to transfer to the PPP. Overall, he wasnt persuaded that 
it was suitable for Mr C, who was an inexperienced investor, to relinquish guaranteed 
income and instead take on the investment risks associated with the pension transfer. 
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Cambrian carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr C opted for the 
PPF (rather than the BSPS2) and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. 
Cambrian didnt accept our investigators assessment. It felt that the investigator hadnt 
addressed several points and provided additional comments, summarised as follows:
Mr Cs plans, needs and objectives centered around an intention to retire at age 60 
and to receive retirement income of £30,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms. Its 
analysis at the time showed that these objectives werent achievable through the 
BSPS, PPF or BSPS2;
Transferring to the PPP achieved his objective of providing a significant lump sum to 
his family in the event of his early death, which wouldnt have been available had he 
maintained his safeguarded benefits;
Had he opted for the PPF he wouldve been prevented from considering a pension 
transfer at a later date; 
His risk profile indicated that he was willing to accept investment risk. Had he opted 
for a completely risk-free solution it wouldve denied him opportunities for growth;A transfer to either the PPF or BSPS2 was unlikely to lead to an increase in benefits 
or meet his income need and so it considered a pension transfer to be a suitable 
option and in his best interests;
The investigators conclusion was illogical because it was based on Mr C maintaining 
his safeguarded benefits and accepting lower-risk income, contrary to his objectives 
and risk profile. It said that an outcome that fails to meet a clients needs, objectives 
or attitude to risk (where an alternative is available) is unsuitable; and
It maintained its view that the advice it had given to Mr C was suitable and so 
requested that this complaint be passed to an ombudsman for review.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked Mr C that in the event this 
complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred redress to be calculated on the current 
methodology or the updated guidance expected to be implemented in early 2023. The 
investigator told Mr C that if we didnt receive an answer that wed assume he preferred 
redress on the current methodology set out in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms 
on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. As at the date of this 
provisional decision, Mr C didnt confirm which option he preferred. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr C and Cambrian. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Cambrian was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it advised Mr C. This meant 
that when it advised him it was required to follow the rules and consider the guidance in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs Handbook.
Primarily, Cambrian was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr C. The 
suitability rules and guidance that applied when Cambrian provided its recommendation to 
Mr C were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that 
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment 
objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements 
in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Cs case  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of Cambrians recommendation, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance.
Mr Cs situation
The situation for Mr C wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr C. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr C had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Cambrian.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr C to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr C, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable, when needs 
could be determined with far greater accuracy than at age 32  the PPF didnt offer these 
additional features.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr C still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Cambrians advice was provided in November 2017, 
after the Time to Choose pack had been issued to members. I think that the risk of the 
BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been 
approved and the BSPS2 was being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in 
most situations that were higher than PPF benefits. Bearing this in mind together with Mr Cs 
age and circumstances, its my view he wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 
instead of the PPF. 
Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at that time, its my fair 
and reasonable opinion that Cambrian shouldve started its advice process by assuming the 
BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr C and to only recommend a transfer 
to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests.
Mr Cs objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr C had three broad objectives 
regarding his safeguarded benefits, summarised as follows:Flexibility and early retirement  He considered the ability to take flexible income 
and a tax-free lump sum from a PPP to be more beneficial than the rigid benefit 
structure of the alternative options. He wanted to retire at age 60 and receive annual 
retirement income of £30,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms. He was prepared to 
accept some investment risk to achieve this objective;
Death benefits  He was concerned about the level of death benefits payable to his 
wife and daughter if he maintained his safeguarded benefits. It was important to him 
to maximise the level of death benefits by ensuring that any unused benefits be 
passed on to his family; and
Control  He was concerned about the future of the BSPS and the level of his 
benefits being reduced further or the BSPS falling into the PPF which would result in 
a 10% reduction in his benefits. He had lost trust in Tata Steel. As a result, he 
wanted to sever ties and have control over his pension benefits by transferring to a 
PPP.
I recognise that Mr Cs safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on Cambrian to provide expert, balanced information and 
advice, taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could 
then make an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client 
seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, Cambrian was tasked with 
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options. 
In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take to achieve their objectives. Financial planning 
generally involves managing client expectations and a need for compromises. Mr C was 
relying on Cambrian to provide expert advice. If an advising business considers a course of 
action to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice 
not to facilitate the transaction.
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time Cambrian advised Mr C. This required it to carry out a 
transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The 
critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, 
after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension 
scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a 
lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less 
likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the 
revalued pension payable by the DB pension scheme.
In its suitability report issued in November 2017, Cambrian quoted the following critical yield 
figures to Mr C:
Scheme At age 60 based on 
taking reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-free At age 60 based on 
taking a full 
pensionAt age 65 based 
on taking 
reduced 
pension and At age 65 based 
on taking a full 
pensioncash maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 6.31% 7.12% 6.03% 6.72%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time that 
the BSPS2 would pay a lower level of benefits than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for 
the BSPS2 wouldve been marginally lower than those stated above.
Cambrians recommendation to Mr C was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in 
its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able
to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 4.7% based on
Mr C taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and 4.6% on the basis of 
taking benefits at age 60. Furthermore, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time 
was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the 
lower rate. These facts indicate that the critical yield figures attached to the proposed 
transfer could be regarded as high, implying significant investment growth was required by 
the PPP over the period to age 60 or 65 to match the relinquished benefits.
Given the critical yield figures applicable in this case and that Mr Cs PPP was invested to 
align with his Balanced/Growth risk profile, I think it was very unlikely that the PPP would 
provide benefits that matched the relinquished benefits, let alone exceed them. And it seems 
that Cambrian agrees because in its suitability report the adviser stated, The required 
critical yields detailed above at your age 60 and 65 are, in my opinion, unachievable. So, 
from an economic point of view, Cambrian agrees with me it was very likely Mr C would be 
financially worse off by transferring on a like-for-like basis when compared to the scheme 
pension.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Cs recorded 
objectives.
Flexibility and early retirement objective
It was recorded that Mr C wanted the flexibility to retire at age 60 and receive annual 
retirement income of £30,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms. This would require gross 
income of over £40,000 in 2017 terms. Cambrian portrayed the PPP option as allowing for 
early retirement earlier than age 65 without the penalties which would be applied to the 
PPF or BSPS2 options. The reality was of course that the PPP wouldve had less time to 
grow if accessed earlier than 65 and any resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot 
see that this was adequately explained to Mr C so that he could understand accessing any 
of the available options early would likely lead to reduced retirement income during his 
lifetime compared to taking benefits at age 65.
I think its clear that Mr C was attracted to a flexible arrangement. But he was then aged 32 
and couldnt access the money in the PPP until age 55 at the earliest. So I dont think there 
was any need to transfer at that time, especially given the high critical yield figures attached to the transaction. He wouldve retained the transfer option under the BSPS2. While I dont 
doubt he wouldve liked the flexibility to retire at age 60, plans can change over such a long 
period of time.
Many people might want to retire early and receive a certain level of income. But this can 
only happen if they have the financial means to support themselves in retirement. As noted 
above, financial planning generally involves managing client expectations and a need for 
compromises. Mr C may have wanted to retire at 60 and receive that level of income after 
tax but it was for Cambrian, as the expert, to establish if this was feasible and to manage his 
expectations and help him modify his objectives to reflect the reality of his circumstances. 
Im concerned about the way in which Cambrian determined Mr Cs early retirement 
objective and income need. I say this because its unclear how the target annual retirement 
income figure of £30,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms was determined or if it was 
realistic that he could retire at 60. In the suitability report, the adviser stated, We agreed to 
plan for a total income of £2,500 net per month or £30,000 per annum in retirement. You 
confirmed you have no fixed ideas of what you would like you to have in retirement and 
indeed this level of net income would certainly be more than your current spending. All being 
well, you will have no debt-related expenditure in retirement. So it seems that the figure was 
a notional figure put forward by Mr C rather than being a proper analysis carried out by 
Cambrian based on Mr Cs expected expenditure in retirement and the required income 
need to cover this. Theres no reference to the income need increasing in payment to 
counter the effects of inflation. Rather, it appears to be a fixed income requirement.
In response to this complaint Cambrian said that Mr Cs early retirement and income need 
couldnt be met by either the BSPS2 or PPF, meaning a transfer to a PPP was the only 
viable option. But this is contrary to its own analysis at the time. Its suitability report 
contained figures of the estimated benefits payable by the Tata Steel DC pension plan in 
conjunction with either the BSPS or alternative PPP. The projected income from all options 
fell substantially short of Mr Cs recorded income need. Cambrians analysis indicated that 
the PPP fund value would be exhausted by age 82, five years before his life expectancy of 
87. So it seemed likely that he would have a significant income shortfall in his lifetime by 
following Cambrians recommendation.
I think it was apparent that Mr Cs income target was unrealistic based on the pension 
benefits he had built up and would foreseeably continue to build up over the period to age 
60. And it seems Cambrian agrees because in the report the adviser stated, My analysis 
shows that you are currently short of achieving your retirement objective of £30,000 a year 
from age 60. You may therefore need to consider either deferring retirement, taking a 
phased retirement, adjusting your expectations of target retirement income or paying more 
into pension.
The further away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish their likely 
expenditure and therefore what their income need is. And in Mr Cs case, being aged 32 at 
the time of the advice, I think it wouldve been very difficult to predict with any degree of 
certainty what his expected expenditure during retirement would be  and therefore what 
realistic level of income he would need from 60 onwards to cover this and whether, if fact, he 
could retire early. With such a substantial time horizon until pension benefits could be 
accessed, it makes the case for a pension transfer  for the sake of achieving early 
retirement  more difficult to justify, particularly when Cambrians own analysis showed that 
transferring was unlikely to enable Mr C to achieve his early retirement and income need. 
This fact alone means that Cambrian didnt clearly demonstrate, on the evidence, that 
transferring was in Mr Cs best interests, as set out in COBS 19.1.6G. Mr Cs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 14 years and 6 months qualifying service, 
represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. I think its fair to 
say that when the time came to retire, he and his wife would be heavily reliant on the value 
of these benefits to support their standard of living in retirement, particularly given that his 
wife didnt have any private or workplace pension arrangements in her name.
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with 
providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr C for the 
following 28 year period but for no clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative 
option of transferring to the BSPS2. It was noted that Mr C was prepared to accept some 
investment risk to achieve this objective. Given the analysis, I think its clear that he took on 
a significant more than some risk to try and achieve an unrealistic income target. Cambrian 
categorised Mr C as having an Adventurous/High capacity for loss. That categorisation was 
at odds with Mr Cs financial situation. Given the importance of these benefits, I think he had 
limited capacity for loss because a reduction in their value would likely have a materially 
detrimental effect on his standard of living in retirement.
Its not in dispute that Mr C required his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of 
income in retirement. Where there is such a need its difficult to justify relinquishing 
guaranteed income in exchange for flexible income that doesnt have any guarantees. That 
is, unless the prospect of an alternatively secured guaranteed income, by way of a transfer 
and then annuity purchase, was likely to have produced a higher level of guaranteed 
income. But as illustrated above, and as also acknowledged by Cambrian at the time of the 
advice, this wasnt the case here.
In conclusion, the contemporaneous evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for 
Mr C to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time.
Death benefits objective
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are 
taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately 
following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr C withdrew benefits, the death 
benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to the simple 
fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value.
But Mr C was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
As noted above, the value of Mr Cs safeguarded benefits would represent the backbone of 
his retirement provision by the time he came to retire. Withdrawing money from the PPP to 
meet his income and lump sum needs from age 60 would likely mean that the size of the 
fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than 
expected. As noted above, Cambrians analysis indicated that the PPP fund value would be 
exhausted by age 82 before his life expectancy of 87. So its questionable what level of 
benefit his wife and daughter would ultimately receive from the PPP. 
If it was a genuine objective for Mr C to provide a lump sum to his family on his death, then
life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling himto maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mr C had disposable income
available every month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay for life cover to
achieve the death lump sum objective. In the suitability report reference was made to the
possibility of obtaining life cover, as follows:
As the option of a lump sum death benefit is important to you so that you can leave 
an inheritance for your wife and daughter, it is important to consider a Whole of Life 
assurance policy as this could provide a lump sum death benefit. I have therefore 
quoted a Whole of Life policy with a sum assured equal to your cash equivalent 
transfer value of £213,548.15 and the monthly guaranteed premium with [provider] is 
£110.43 per month. This is subject to underwriting.
Having said that you do not wish to consider this course of action as you do not want 
to go through any underwriting process, and you do not want to commit to having to 
pay a substantial monthly premium for the rest of your life for [Mr Cs wife] and your 
daughter to be able to benefit from a lump sum.
I cannot see evidence that Cambrian adequately quantified Mr Cs death lump sum need 
taking into account any existing cover, over what term or how this might change over time. 
Rather, it appears Cambrian assumed Mr C required life cover that matched the transfer 
value. That level of cover may have been inappropriate. Furthermore, it appears Cambrian 
assumed that Mr C required cover for the rest of his life. Again, this may have not been 
necessary. Using a whole of life policy may have led to Mr C being charged for benefits or 
longer-term life cover that he might not have needed, making the cover unnecessarily 
expensive. 
In my view, a level or decreasing term assurance policy may have been more appropriate for
comparative purposes. Pure life cover is generally cheaper than whole of life cover, so the 
cost was likely to be less than the quoted monthly figure of £110.43 for the whole of life plan 
and may have been more attractive to Mr C. I cannot see evidence that Cambrian 
considered and presented pure life cover quotes to Mr C to help him make an informed 
decision, regardless of his own views about the relevance of life cover.
But, in any case, I understand that through his employment Mr C had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £140,000 
would be paid in the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable 
regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. 
In addition, Mr Cs BSPS contributions of £22,586 plus interest at 3% compound would be 
returned to his wife and she would also receive the value of his Tata Steel DC pension plan 
as a lump sum. In addition, she would receive a 50% spouses pension had he opted for the 
BSPS2.
So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr C remained employed by 
Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £162,000 would be paid on his death. As noted 
above, it seems that Mr C intended to remain employed by Tata Steel, so I think its fair to 
say that there wasnt any expectation the death in service benefit would disappear in the 
foreseeable future.
This leads me to conclude that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits in a different format bearing in mind the cover already in place while 
Mr C remained employed by Tata Steel. 
Its my view that Mr C had no health issues at the time Cambrian advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was 
any real merit in Mr C transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit. 
Control objective
Its clear that Mr C was concerned about the BSPS and the risk that this might fall into the 
PPF. I accept that such concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and that it 
wouldve been a major motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand 
why Mr C wanted to have control over his benefits by transferring to a PPP. 
That being said, as noted above, I think that by November 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling 
into the PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved 
and the BSPS2 was being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most 
situations that were higher than PPF benefits. But, in any event, I dont consider a transfer to 
the PPF was an outcome for Mr C to avoid at all costs. Ill explain why.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr C could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of Cambrians recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained 
robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF 
to provide benefits in the future.
Had Cambrian advised Mr C to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable,
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income
and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 32. I think this is a key point.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr C had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP before any 
transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate concern about 
options disappearing for Mr C or that there was an urgency to transfer to a PPP at that time 
to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr C was reliant on Cambrian to provide a fair 
and balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his best interests in this 
regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mr C the features, risks and benefits of 
those alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr C was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Cambrian to 
provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. The suitability report doesnt 
deal with Mr Cs concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought that a transfer to the PPF was 
an outcome to avoid at all costs and probably reinforced his view a transfer to a PPP was 
the best course of action.In summary, I think that Cambrian failed to adequately allay Mr Cs misapprehensions and 
that he therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position 
regarding the BSPS2 and PPF options.
Conclusion
It was recorded that Mr C had limited understanding or knowledge of investing. That seems 
accurate based on the evidence. I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension 
transfer to the PPP served any reasonably achievable need, or that Mr C gained any clearly 
defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. And so 
Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was clearly in his best interests. As a result, I think 
its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was fair
compensation on the basis that Mr C had instead opted for the BSPS2. I asked both parties 
to this complaint to provide any further comments or evidence that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr C provided additional comments. In summary, he said that one of the main reasons he 
transferred was because many of his colleagues at Tata Steel were talking about it at the 
time and this influenced his decision it was the right thing to do. But, with hindsight, he didnt 
really understand what he was doing, and that Cambrian had led him to believe hed be 
better off if he transferred. But he had since realised it wasnt suitable for him to transfer at 
that time given his age and the significant timescale until he could access any benefits from 
the PPP.
Cambrian didnt provide any additional comments or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision.
On 22 May 2023, our investigator contacted Cambrian and Mr C to tell them that the FCA 
had developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress due under the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. And that the FCA was encouraging businesses to use that 
calculator for non-scheme cases, such as this complaint made by Mr C. Our investigator 
stated that in my final decision I may direct Cambrian to use the FCAs calculator. So she 
invited the parties to provide any additional comments they wanted me to consider before 
making my decision. Neither party provided any comments in response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Before going any further, Id like to apologise to the parties for the length of time it has taken 
me to issue this final decision after issuing my provisional decision on 27 January 2023. The 
reason for the delay was mainly because this Service was waiting for clarification from the 
FCA about whether businesses should be required to use its redress calculator non-BSPS 
consumer redress scheme cases. Clarification from the FCA has now been received and so 
Im now able to set out my final decision below.The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this
final decision. As at the date of this final decision, Cambrian hasnt provided any additional 
comments or evidence in response to my provisional decision of 27 January 2023 or to our 
investigators contact on 22 May 2023. I dont think its appropriate to have an open-ended 
situation waiting for Cambrians response. Im satisfied that this Service has given Cambrian 
sufficient time to respond. Since it hasnt responded, Ive assumed that it doesnt intend to 
provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider. So I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision of 27 January 2023 to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Cambrian to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF, as set out in the Time to Choose 
pack. These differences meant that the PPF was likely the better option for unmarried, 
deferred members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available 
even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the 
better option for married pensioners and deferred members who expected to draw benefits 
at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. 
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr C wouldve opted for the PPF on the 
basis that he retired at age 60. I disagree for the reasons explained in my provisional 
decision set out above. I acknowledge that Mr C wanted to retire at age 60. But he was then 
aged 32 and so about 28 years away from his preferred retirement age. In addition, he 
wanted to receive annual retirement income of £30,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms. 
But, given Mr Cs accumulated retirement provision at that time and the prospect for building 
up additional provision, I think it was sufficiently uncertain what his financial situation would 
look like so far into in the future and whether he could, in fact, retire at age 60.
With these factors in mind, Im not convinced that it could be determined with a reasonable 
degree of certainty in 2017 that the PPF was the better option for Mr C. And so I think, given 
the lack of clarity surrounding Mr Cs ability to retire early at age 60, the BSPS2 was likely 
the better option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 
would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF.
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. 
Cambrian must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Cambrian should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the Mr C and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr C hasnt yet retired. So, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Cambrian should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr C accepts Cambrians offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Cambrian may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint. I require Cambrian Associates 
Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would 
additionally require Cambrian Associates Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only 
require Cambrian Associates Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that
Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr C the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C. 
If Mr C accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Cambrian 
Associates Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C 
can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.To enable Cambrian Associates Limited to carry out the loss assessment, Mr C will need to 
agree to provide it such information as necessary to complete the calculation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman