DRN-3739175
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax blocked their 
account and treated them unfairly. They feel they were treated in a discriminatory way due to 
Mrs Ws race.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to highlight that Mr and Mrs W have raised a previous complaint about 
their accounts being blocked. However, these complaints have been addressed separately 
under a different case reference. As such, I wont be considering those issues in the 
decision.
I need to clarify that this service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal, free service, 
and an alternative to the Courts - only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out within the act. I know Mr and Mrs W will be frustrated by this.
However, I can consider whether Halifax has acted in a fair and reasonable manner. To do 
that I will take several things, including the Equality Act 2010, into consideration.
I have listened to the call which took place between Mrs W and the advisor who was carrying 
out the further verification checks, after Mrs W had attempted to transfer £5,000 to her son 
via an online transfer. When Mrs W was asked what the transaction was for (which was one 
of the questions they are required to ask), I could hear Mr W advising Mrs W on how to 
answer the questions she was asked. Mrs W responded personal. The advisor explained 
he would need more information about what the transaction was for as the transaction had 
been flagged as a potential security issue. Mrs W responded with further vague responses 
and discussions in the background of the call continued. As such the advisor put a block on 
the account and advised Mrs W to go to branch to get it lifted. 
Having reviewed Halifaxs internal correspondence provided and having listened to the call, I 
understand why it had concerns and why it felt it needed to follow its process of placing a 
temporary block on the account. As such I am satisfied Halifax was acting in the best 
interests of Mr and Mrs W and their obligations to keep their account safe. 
However, I dont think the advisor handled the issue particularly well. It left Mr and Mrs W 
confused and frustrated. Mr and Mrs W had further questions and the advisor clearly 
terminated the call (although he said he lost connection). This led to Mr W concluding the 
reason why the block had been placed was due to discrimination. While I can understand Mr 
W frustrations, and while I cant provide any further clarity on the issue (due to security 
purposes) from the evidence provided, I am satisfied the actions Halifax took were fair and 
reasonable and the same decision would have been made for any other consumer in the 
same circumstances.
Halifax has acknowledged the advisor could have handled the ending of the call better and 
accepted it was indeed terminated. It apologised for this in its final response letter and 
agreed to provide feedback to the advisor. So, while I acknowledge the advisor shouldnt 
have terminated the call, I think its unlikely that even if the call had continued, Mr and Mrs W 
would have received any further clarity, as Halifax were unable to provide the consumer with 
further information due to its security process. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the spelling error Halifax made in relation to 
Mrs Ws name. Given Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about how hey were treated and 
the fact they felt it was discriminatory, I understand why this error compounded how they felt. 
However, the business has assured me that this was a typographical error and apologised 
for its mistake. As such, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further regarding this.
Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy with the time it took for the business to respond to the 
complaint. Halifax has said, when it received Mr and Mrs Ws complaint letter dated 30 
March 2022 it had insufficient information on the complaint letter for it to proceed with 
investigating the complaint. It was missing their sort code, had an incorrect postcode and 
there was no contact number or email address. As such Halifax says it was unable to locate 
their account and investigate their concerns, and so it had to rely on sending letters to Mr 
and Mrs W. Having reviewed the complaint letter dated 30 March 2022 I can confirm this 
information was missing. As such I cant hold Halifax responsible for these delays. 
However, I can see that Mr and Mrs W sent a second complaint letter which Halifax did 
receive in May 2022, but it failed to re-open the complaint. This did cause delays until the 
complaint was referred to our service in June 2022. Halifax have acknowledged this and 
offered to pay Mr and Mrs W £75 for the delays they experienced. In the circumstances I am 
satisfised the compensation offered by Halifax acknowledges the inconvenience caused. I 
say this because, while there were some delays caused by Halifax, it wouldnt have changed 
the outcome of the complaint or delayed Mr and Mrs W referring it to our service. I wont be 
asking Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman