DRN-3588060
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) couldnt offer an appointment 
for porting their mortgage in the timescale they needed to complete for their new house. And 
it charged an early repayment charge (ERC) when they got a new YBS mortgage online. 
What happened
YBS has now said it shouldnt have charged Mr and Mrs L an ERC when they redeemed Mrs 
Ls existing mortgage and took out new joint lending for their new home. It said Mrs L was 
within 120 days of the end of the fixed rate period on her lending, and YBS waives the ERC 
in these circumstances. So the question here is whether YBS has offered sufficient 
compensation for what went wrong. 
Mr and Mrs L said it hadnt, and they set out for us what had happened. 
Mr and Mrs L had an offer accepted on a new home, and were aware from the outset that 
they had a very tight deadline. They needed to complete in less than five weeks. YBS 
couldnt offer them a mortgage appointment for two and a half weeks. It said the minimum 
timeframe, realistically, was six weeks to get a mortgage in place. So they had no option but 
to apply for a new mortgage online, as that was much faster. 
YBS wouldnt offer a faster appointment, and it said it couldnt allow them to port Mrs Ls 
existing mortgage if they were applying online. So they had to pay an ERC of £1,497.86. 
Mr and Mrs L complained about having to pay the ERC, and they received two complaint 
response letters which said YBS hadnt made a mistake. Mr and Mrs L said YBS employed 
delaying tactics, and passed them from person to person, but they persisted with their 
complaint, and YBS eventually changed its mind. Mr and Mrs L said they then even had to 
argue to get the ERC returned promptly, rather than in three to five days time. 
Mr and Mrs L said if they hadnt been so determined, then YBS would effectively have stolen 
from them. And they were concerned that other people were having to pay the ERC in these 
circumstances, so they wanted us to check what YBS was doing for other people.
Mr and Mrs L told us they were out of pocket by £1,497.86 for over a month. And they would 
never have got this money back if they hadnt persisted. They said they had been offered 
£290 compensation but they refused that. They didnt think it covered the many hours that 
they spent on this complaint, and the great stress and frustration it caused, at an already 
stressful time. 
In its last complaint response to Mr and Mrs L, YBS said it accepted the service it had 
provided to them wasnt up to the standard it expects to offer. It had twice told them it had 
followed the right process. But it said that it hadnt, after all. What it should have done was to 
offer to add a note to their account confirming that they could proceed with the new 
application online as normal, and then it would waive the ERC. But it didnt do that. 
YBS refunded the ERC, and it said it had agreed to pay this money quickly, given how long it 
had held it for. It wanted to pay Mr and Mrs L some compensation too. It offered £7.99 for 
having held their money for a month. And it offered £40 for phone calls theyd made chasing 
up the issue, £50 for the time they spent on the complaint, and £200 to apologise for the 
errors made.
YBS also addressed some questions that Mr and Mrs L had raised. It said its online system 
didnt recognise that Mr and Mrs L had an existing mortgage with it, but there was advice 
elsewhere on its website about this. It said porting applications do need to be done through 
an advisor, because they are more complicated, and it simply wasnt able to run two 
applications alongside each other. And it wouldnt be fair if it had let Mr and Mrs L jump the 
queue for a mortgage appointment. 
YBS set out the interest and ERC they had been charged, and clarified the term of Mrs Ls 
previous fixed rate lending. It didnt seek to justify the ERC, because it said they shouldnt 
have been asked to pay it. But it explained the overall purpose of an ERC, which is to cover 
YBS losses if someone ends a fixed interest rate agreement before the end of its term. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the ERC that Mr and 
Mrs L paid was in line with Mrs Ls mortgage offer from July 2019, and was confirmed in a 
more recent mortgage statement from 2021. Mrs L had been properly alerted to this. 
Our investigator said that porting a mortgage can be complicated. Thats why a lender might 
want this sort of customer to get advice. That was reasonable, although it wasnt helpful for 
Mr and Mrs L because of the very tight deadlines they were working to. So he said it was 
right that they were given another option, to apply for a new mortgage online. 
Our investigator appreciated that YBS didnt get things right at first, but then it provided a 
detailed response to their complaint, and later offered further information on how redress 
had been calculated. Our investigator realised Mr and Mrs L didnt feel this was enough and 
that they may have lost out had it not been for their persistence. But he said the mistake was 
identified, and steps were taken by YBS to put things right. He thought the amount offered 
was fair and reasonable for the issues that have been caused.
Mr and Mrs L thought our investigator had missed the main point, that they would have been 
£1,497.86 out of pocket if they hadnt persisted. They summarised again the key points of 
their complaint, stressed the unfairness of this, and reminded us that YBS twice said it hadnt 
made a mistake. They thought most customers would have given up. And they thought that 
even if theyd referred their complaint to us, YBS would just have said the same thing to us. 
It was only because they kept chasing, that they found out the ERC should have been 
waived as they were within 120 days of the old mortgage ending. They still didnt want to 
accept YBSs offer.
Mr and Mrs L said they still hadnt received a explanation of why YBSs porting process is so 
much more complicated than an online process for new applicants. And they said many of 
YBSs other customers have probably wrongly been charged an ERC in the same 
circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said he hadnt missed the point that Mr and Mrs 
L would be out of pocket if they hadnt persisted. But our service cant ask a business to pay 
compensation because of something that may have happened, but didn't. He thought the 
payment YBS had offered for distress and inconvenience was fair and reasonable.Our investigator thought YBS was right to suggest that Mr and Mrs L could access their new 
borrowing quicker by applying online. And he said that a customer porting a mortgage may 
be more complex than somebody arranging a new mortgage for a number of reasons, which 
he discussed briefly. 
Our investigator also noted that the role of our service is to resolve individual complaints. If 
Mr and Mrs L were concerned that this was an issue affecting a large number of YBS 
customers, they could raise this with the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Mr and Mrs L still didnt agree. They wanted an ombudsman to consider their complaint, so 
this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by setting out that, as our investigator said, Im not able to investigate YBS 
wider practices in redeeming mortgages. My remit here is only to consider Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs L felt it was so unfair that they should be asked to pay 
such a large ERC. They were almost at the end of the fixed rate period on Mrs Ls existing 
mortgage. And they said the outstanding repayments for the remainder of the fixed rate 
period were actually less than the ERC they were asked to pay. 
Mr And Mrs L had an offer accepted on a property with an exceptionally tight completion 
deadline. YBS couldnt offer them an appointment with a mortgage advisor in sufficient time 
to be confident that this deadline would be met. I understand that YBS was open about this 
with Mr and Mrs L. I dont think it was unfair that YBS was busy, and couldnt accommodate 
an appointment within Mr and Mrs Ls exceptionally tight timescales. 
Mr and Mrs L also complained that they had to have an appointment with an advisor, rather 
than just make a porting application online, in the same way that new applicants can apply 
online. YBS has confirmed that a porting application is complex, and it thinks customers who 
are porting should be given advice. 
I think thats a reasonable approach for YBS to take in these circumstances. Porting can be 
complicated. Existing lending has to be moved to a new property. New lending also has to 
be arranged, and as our investigator said, that means people are often left with two different 
lending products, potentially with different end dates. In addition, in this case, Mr L wasnt on 
the existing mortgage, and he wanted to be added. I do think it was reasonable for YBS to 
say that Mr and Mrs L would need to talk to an advisor, to meet all their goals.
Because they had to act quickly, Mr and Mrs L applied for a new mortgage online, redeemed 
their existing lending, and were charged an ERC. They complained about this, which is 
understandable. I can see that they had a number of conversations with YBS about this, and 
it took some time for YBS to realise that its own policy was to waive the ERC in these 
circumstances, so this ERC should not have been charged. 
YBS has now apologised. It has returned the money, and it has offered compensation 
totalling £297.99. (I understand Mr and Mrs L thought this was a fraction less, but I think this 
is YBSs offer.) Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is that they had to persist for YBS to change its mind. They said 
most people would give up, after having repeatedly been told YBS hadnt made a mistake. 
And they said even if theyd complained to us, YBS could just have said the same thing. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ls concerns, and the points that they have raised about how much 
time they spent on this. And I accept that this would have been stressful for them. But, like 
our investigator, I do have to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs L did get YBS to change its mind. 
He was right to say that we cannot base compensation on what might have happened.
I also have to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs L were told in YBS first complaint response 
letter, that they could bring their complaint to our service. It was then their choice to persist 
with their complaint to YBS, rather than ask our service to investigate. 
I have considered all the circumstances of this complaint carefully. I dont think it was helpful 
for YBS to refer to payments being made as per FOS guidelines. But I still think, like our 
investigator, that the total amount YBS has offered does provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. I understand that Mr and Mrs L have not accepted this amount, 
so I will award this now. But Ill allow YBS to count towards this award any monies it has 
paid, in case they have changed their mind about this more recently.
I know that Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed, but I dont think YBS has to do more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Yorkshire Building Society must pay Mr and Mrs L £297.99 in 
compensation. Yorkshire Building Society can count towards that amount any monies it has 
already paid to Mr L or Mrs L for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman