DRN-3430335
The complaint
Ms K complains Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) failed to collect her due monthly direct debit 
payment for her loan account following a Covid payment holiday resulting in arrears letters 
being sent, fees being charged and additionally she was unable to contact them by 
telephone. 
What happened
Ms K says towards the end of an agreed Covid payment holiday on her loan with Ikano, she 
contacted Ikano to check when her next direct debit was due to be collected for her loan 
payment as was told it would be automatically taken around the end of November 2020. Ms 
K says she then received an arrears letter and was charged £25 for a missed payment that 
should have been taken by Ikano in November 2020. Ms K says she tried to contact Ikano 
by telephone but was unable to get through as the number she called wasnt working. Ms K 
says she eventually spoke with Ikano to complain about the fees charged and the arrears 
letter she had received and Ikano informed her that the reason for this was her direct debit 
had been cancelled by her or her bank. 
Ms K says she never cancelled the direct debit for her loan payments and Ikano have 
provided poor customer service throughout this time and wants them to adequately 
compensate her for the trouble and upset this has caused her. 
Ikano says their records show the payer of the direct debit, either Ms K or her bank 
cancelled the direct debit and with that in mind it acted reasonably when issuing the arrears 
letter and charging her £25. Ikano says as a gesture of goodwill it has now refunded the £25 
charged to Ms K after the loan account was paid up to date. Ikano says due to the Covid 
pandemic some of its customer service lines were partly suspended but its payment support 
line remained opened and contact was still possible via email and social media. 
Ms K wasnt happy with Ikanos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says from the information she was provided with by Ikano it was evidenced that 
the direct debit was cancelled by either Ms K or her bank. With that in mind the investigator 
didnt feel Ikano were at fault for sending out an arrears letter or charging a fee for that, 
albeit that fee had since been refunded to Ms K. 
The investigator didnt feel Ikano could be held at fault for not having its customer service 
lines open given this was during the height of the Covid pandemic, but there were other 
ways for Ms K to contact them. The investigator felt Ikano had acted reasonably here.
Ms K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Ms K to receive letters from Ikano to inform her 
she was in arrears, when she was led to believe the direct debit for her monthly loan 
payments would be automatically reinstated following her Covid payment holiday. 
Ms K has also lodged another complaint against Ikano to this service, so to be clear when 
looking at this complaint I will only consider if Ikano acted unreasonably when it sent the 
arrears letter to Ms K and charged her £25 for this missed payment. Additionally, I will 
consider if it was at fault for Ms K not being able to contact them by telephone to discuss her 
loan account payments. 
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike. 
I understand Ms K feels strongly about the fact she didnt cancel her monthly direct debit for 
her contractual monthly loan payment, which is at the centre of this complaint. When coming 
to a full and impartial decision I rely on the evidence provided by both parties. Here, Ikano 
have produced a screen shot from their records which shows the direct debit being cancelled 
by the payer  which suggests in all probability this was either by Ms K or her bank. I cant 
see why, in all likelihood, Ikano would cancel a direct debit following the Covid payment 
holiday it had provided for the past six months, when it told Ms K previously it would be 
collecting it at the end of November 2020. 
So with that in mind, Ms K may wish to discuss this with her bank to see if it can provide any 
further clarity on this. It follows that being the case, Ikano would have been justified to issue 
an arrears or late payment demand to Ms K following the missed loan payment in November 
2020 and charged her for doing so. That said, I can see after further discussions with Ms K 
this fee was refunded to her as a gesture of goodwill following the loan being paid up to date, 
and I consider that to be a reasonable course of action for Ikano to have taken here. 
I do understand the point Ms K makes about not being able to contact Ikano by telephone 
but I also need to take into account this was during the Covid pandemic and this inevitably 
meant businesses like Ikano had to make difficult decisions about what services remained in 
place. Having said that, Ikano have told this service other telephony services remained 
open, including the payment support line, emails services and social media.  
What is important to say is despite all of this, Ms K remains responsible to ensure her 
monthly loan payments are made on time, and to check the payment had been made 
following the six-month Covid payment holiday. 
While Ms K will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
Ikano here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 Barry White
Ombudsman