DRN-1702592
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs S bought a MPPI policy 2000 to protect her mortgage repayments. The policy was sold 
during a meeting that took place in January 2000 in one of Barclays branches. Mrs S was 
covered against accident, sickness and unemployment. The policy and mortgage ended in 
February 2004.
Mrs S says Barclays mis-sold the policy. She says she does not remember taking the policy 
out. She says she wouldn't have been able to claim on the policy as her circumstances 
changed 3 months after the meeting that she had with Barclays.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs S doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided to not uphold Mrs Ss complaint because of the following reasons:
Ive looked at what Mrs S said about how the policy was sold  including that she 
does not remember taking the policy. But I think, after considering this and looking at 
the documentation provided, it is most likely that she was advised it was a good idea 
to have the insurance to protect her mortgage repayments, and she took it on that 
advice.
 
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation I have suggests to 
me that the policy was presented as optional and a recommendation was made. 
I can see from the application form that some discussion most likely would have been 
had around the suitability of having a policy. There are several options to choose 
from including the level of cover and also an option to not have the PPI policy. I can 
see that Mrs S has signed in a box to say that she wanted the PPI cover. Although I 
have regard for what Mrs S has said, her recollections are not detailed and so 
because of this, and because of what I have seen in the sales documentation 
provided, I am persuaded that she was given a choice to have the MPPI policy.
 Moving on, I think Barclays recommended the MPPI to Mrs S, but it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time the 
meeting took place in January 2000. Mrs S says she had a life policy but i don't think 
she had enough provisions that I can see at the time of sale that would have meant 
she wouldnt have had a need of the benefit offered by her having the cover. I can 
also see no other reasons such as a significant or restrictive term that would make 
the policy unsuitable for her.
 
I cant be sure what Barclays told Mrs S about the costs of the policy at the time of 
sale. But even if Mrs S given clear information about this, I dont think it would have 
changed her decision to buy it for the same reasons why I think the policy was 
suitable. It was reasonably priced compared to similar policies available at the time 
and to the monthly mortgage repayment. And Mrs S could have cancelled the PPI if it 
did become unaffordable.
 
Its possible Barclays didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs S wouldve been affected by any of these based on her circumstances at 
the time.
 
Finally, I acknowledge the point made by Mrs S about her change of circumstances 3 
months after the meeting where she arranged the mortgage and was sold the PPI policy. But 
I would agree with the adjudicator when they have said Barclays would have made its 
recommendation (for her to have PPI) based on her circumstances at that time (in January 
2000). So Mrs S's comments don't change my decision. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, but in conclusion I do not uphold 
her complaint for the reasons given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman