DRN-4315162
The complaint
Mr R presented (and represented) a collective complaint about a number of investment 
related accounts held with Henderson Rowe Ltd (HR). The complaint was then split and 
separated. 
This decision is only about his accounts and about the following  he says HR failed to 
execute his instructions on 10 and 11 March 2022 to liquidate his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP), a holding in his Individual Savings Account (ISA) and his jointly held 
General Investment Account (GIA) prior to an impending transfer; that it had done nothing 
when he issued a reminder on 14 March 2022; and that, on 15 March 2022, it eventually 
took action.
HR says there was no clear instruction to liquidate the SIPP; that it has conceded 
responsibility for the delay (between 11 and 15 March) in liquidating the GIA; and that its 
analysis for financial loss (arising from that delay) shows no such loss was incurred by Mr R.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed with HRs approach towards 
its compensation analysis for the GIA aspect of the complaint. She disagreed with Mr Rs 
claim that the SIPP should have been liquidated on 11 March, and concluded that no 
instruction to do so was clearly given by him on that date (and that the terms of his 
instruction on 10 March could not be evidenced). However, she found that his reminder to 
HR on 14 March ought to have led it to liquidate the SIPP on 15 March.
Mr R disagreed with this conclusion. In the main, he retained his claim that his instruction on 
11 March, alongside his instruction the day before, clearly included the SIPPs liquidation, he 
disputed the prices used by HR in considering financial loss in the GIA, he said they were 
non-market prices and he asserted that the use of market-based pricing shows financial loss 
that he should be compensated for. He also noted that the delayed liquidation of the ISA 
holding is missing from HRs calculations. The investigator addressed his rebuttals but 
retained her initial view. Overall, she made the following main findings:
Mr Rs instruction on 10 March was given over a WhatsApp call to the personal 
number of an HR official. It was an unrecorded call and it happened outside the 
requirement, which he was aware of, for instructions to be given on HRs recorded 
landline number. He alleges failings in HRs operations with regards to the landline 
number being inaccessible, forcing him to use the WhatsApp call, but the matter of 
HRs operations is outside the remit of the complaint.
As the call on 10 March was not recorded, there is no recording evidence of the 
instruction given on that date.
His instruction on 11 March was in an email. The liquidation reference is immediately 
followed by a specific list of accounts which a reasonably minded reader would 
conclude was the list of accounts to be liquidated. The list did not include the SIPP, 
so it was not unreasonable for HR to conclude that the instruction did not extend to 
the SIPP. 
[Mr R has explained that the email was sent to HR and to the firm to whom his 
accounts were being transferred, that it was drafted in a way designed to address 
both recipients and that the listed accounts stood in this context. He accepts that, in 
isolation, the email could be read in the way the investigator described but he says 
the email was not isolated, that it was sent to the same individual he spoke to on 10 
March, so it stands in the context of that conversation.]
However, his reminder of 14 March happened through another unrecorded call to HR 
and then an email. In the email he referred to that of 11 March and to an instruction 
to sell everything. HR had a two-stage instruction process  telephone and email  
for the purpose of checking and clarifying instructions. On this basis, the email should 
have been followed by a call to Mr R to clarify his liquidation instruction. HR did not 
do this. Had it done so, it would have realised the SIPP was to be liquidated and it 
would have done that at the next trading point on 15 March. For this reason, it should 
compensate him on this basis.
HR should also pay Mr R £200 for the upset and inconvenience the matter caused 
him. 
Mr R presented his calculations of financial loss from the liquidated GIA assets and ISA 
holding, based on closing mid prices on 11 March. He then drew comparisons between the 
prices used by HR in its calculations and the relevant market prices on 11 March, at 
11.30am (the price point used by HR). He highlighted that none of the former matched the 
latter. He acknowledged that, in terms of redress, a range of price time points on 11 March 
and price types (the days low, closing or average prices, for example) could be used  
which he said the Ombudsman can consider in determining the complaint  but he argues 
that it is unacceptable for HR to use prices that did not exist in the market on 11 March at 
11.30am. 
Mr R also made submissions about flaws he perceived in HRs position on the SIPP 
liquidation instruction. 
In the main, and in addition to his points about HRs operations (and access to the landline), 
he said the lack of a recording for the call on 10 March should not be used unfairly against 
him; HR could not reasonably say the email on 11 March was unclear because it (including 
the official he spoke to and wrote to) was very familiar with him, with the relevant accounts 
and with the need at the time to liquidate and transfer (out) all the accounts imminently, so it 
would have known that his reference to everything included the SIPP; furthermore, the list 
of accounts (in the email) that HR claims to have relied upon included some accounts that 
were already in cash, so this shows the list was not related to the liquidation instruction; and 
the claim that the email was unclear is also arguably irrelevant, because the facts show that 
it was not read by HR and that no liquidation was carried out by HR until after his reminder 
on 14th March.
The complaint was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues to determine are the effects of the telephone call instruction on 10 March, the 
email instruction on 11 March and Mr Rs reminder to HR on 14 March; whether (or not) there was a delay in executing the instruction(s); and, if so, redress for any resulting financial 
loss.
I do not consider it necessary to address the circumstances surrounding Mr Rs use of a 
WhatsApp call to HR on 10 March, as opposed to a call to its landline number. I have read 
and understood the points made by both parties in this respect and I appreciate that Mr R 
has presented his case on why he felt compelled to use the WhatsApp call in the face of 
what he viewed as an inaccessible, or non-functioning, landline number. He has made that 
case partly because, as he has also said, he objects to the absence of a recording for the 
WhatsApp call being used against him.
The absence of such a recording is not being used against him. The point the investigator 
made, and that I share, was simply that the absence of a recording means there is no 
independent evidence or verification of what exactly was said during the call. Mr R says his 
instruction included the SIPP. HR does not agree. The matter is therefore in dispute, and 
without a recording to resolve it, there is no basis to reach a fair conclusion on it. I have not 
found cause to consider one partys account more credible than the others, so without a 
recording I am not in a position to make a safe finding on whether (or not) the telephone 
instruction on 10 March made clear to HR that the SIPP was to be liquidated.
Helpfully, Mr R followed up the call on 10 March with the email on 11 March, so the matter 
can be addressed on the contents of the email. Unfortunately for him, for the reasons given 
in the paragraph above, his arguments that the email is not isolated and that it stands in the 
context of the call on 10 March are essentially unsupported arguments. Without recording 
evidence of what was said in that call, it remains disputed and there is no finding for the 
context he asserts. 
For the sake of completeness, and mindful of what I said earlier about not being drawn into 
the circumstances surrounding the WhatsApp call, I do not find any wrongdoing by HR with 
regards to the absence of a recording for the call. Calls to its landline number were set up for 
transaction instructions (amongst other business contact reasons) and set up to be 
recorded, that was reasonable. Its officials personal mobile phones were not to be used for 
the same purpose, so it was not unreasonable that Mr Rs call was not recorded.
Mr R has said that, in isolation, he can see how the email on 11 March could be read as 
falling short of an instruction to sell the SIPP. On balance, this is my finding, the instruction 
does not read as one that extends to instructing the sale of the SIPP. 
The email was addressed to HR and the firm Mr Rs accounts were being transferred to. It 
began with his references to having spoken to them (both) and to the email as a confirming 
email. The next paragraph (two sentences) spoke only to the new firm, about transferring an 
asset in specie. The paragraph (and sentence) after that spoke only to HR, and said as 
follows  
For everything else  please sell and transfer as it settles. 
This was immediately followed by  
There are 3 ISAs: 

There are also two GIAs 

On balance, I consider that the above instruction could, and would, reasonably have been read as one to liquidate the three ISAs and two GIAs only. The SIPP is not mentioned, so I 
do not accept that the instruction extended to liquidation of the SIPP too. This does not 
mean I doubt Mr Rs intention (as of 10 and/or 11 March) to liquidate the SIPP. I accept that 
he probably held that intention, especially given the background he has explained about 
transferring all the accounts and having to do so by a particular deadline. However, the issue 
to determine is much less about his intention. It is much more, and mainly, about what 
exactly HR was instructed to do. Hence this finding.
I disagree with Mr Rs suggestion that HRs interpretation of the email is irrelevant. 
I appreciate that his core arguments are that HR knew on 10 March what the instruction was; 
its inaction from then up to 14 March shows it had not read the email of 11 March and had 
done nothing towards complying with the instruction within it; so his claim about a breached 
instruction has been established. 
I have already explained that it is not possible to make a safe finding on what precisely was 
instructed on 10 March. 
It is true that HRs inaction up to 14 March calls into question whether (or not) it took any 
meaningful notice of the email of 11 March. However, the email and how its contents 
were/are to be interpreted remain relevant because they determine what HR ought 
reasonably to have done, but for its delay in actioning the instruction (inclusive of any delay 
in taking notice of the instruction). 
But for the delay, it ought to have executed the instruction on 11 March. I understand Mr Rs 
point that some liquidated accounts were within the aforementioned list, so no execution 
would have been necessary for them. It is probable that would have led to a need for further 
clarification between the parties, but I have not seen enough to conclude that such 
clarification would have included mention of the SIPP. It seems more likely (than not) that 
HR could have queried specifically why there was an instruction to liquidate a cash 
account(s) and that Mr R would have replied to agree it (or they) did not require liquidation. 
In other words, without the delay the instruction set out in the email of 11 March is what HR 
should have executed on 11 March. Therefore, interpretation of the instruction is relevant. 
On this basis, and for the reasons given above, I do not find that HR was instructed to 
liquidate the SIPP on 11 March. Without the delay, HR ought reasonably to have executed, 
on 11 March, liquidation of any assets yet to be liquidated in his ISA and jointly held GIA 
(both of which were in the list).
I echo and endorse the investigators findings about the events on 14 March. Due to Mr Rs 
reminder, HRs execution failure (or delay) was identified on this date. His email on the same 
date said  Im afraid I did give an instruction to sell everything except Ruffer, below. This 
too did not mention the SIPP, but HR was already in a position of having failed to execute 
the instruction on 11 March and the email of 14 March was differently presented. It did not 
specify a definitive list. It referred to liquidating everything except Ruffer. In addition, HR 
appears to have been aware of his need to transfer all relevant accounts by an imminent 
deadline. 
Overall, in these circumstances and mindful of HRs two-stage instruction process, it ought 
to have followed up its receipt of the 14 March email with a call to Mr R, on the same date, 
seeking to clarify his instruction. Had it done so, it is more likely (than not) that he would 
have made clear that the instruction included liquidation of the SIPP. With that confirmation, 
HR would have been obliged to execute liquidation of the SIPP at the next available 
opportunity, or dealing point. I agree with the investigators finding that this would have been 
on the following day, 15 March. Mr Rs email of 14 March was sent after normal business hours (it was sent at 6.30pm), so it is reasonable to conclude that execution would have 
happened on the next business day. 
HR already accepts that it caused a delay to liquidation of Mr Rs GIA, and that it ought to 
have done that on 11 March.  
It says no financial loss was incurred by Mr R from the delayed GIA liquidation (the 
liquidation on 15 March that should have happened on 11 March). It says Mr Rs email at 
10.37am on 11 March would have been executed by 11.30 on that date, so it calculated the 
total proceeds that would have been generated based on the bid prices at that time, 
compared that to the total proceeds generated on 15 March, and found no loss. Mr R 
challenges the price point of 11.30am (on 11 March) and the actual prices used in HRs 
calculations. He also invited us to review the price point and price type that should be used 
in the calculation, and submitted his alternative calculation of redress.
I agree with Mr R that a number of price points and price types could be considered for the 
calculation of redress. However, we must not lose sight of the specific purpose that redress 
should serve in his case. His instruction to HR at 10.37am on 11 March should have led HR 
to liquidate any investments in his ISA and jointly held GIA in a timely manner thereafter. 
That did not happen, instead execution happened on 15 March. Redress is therefore aimed 
at calculating whether (or not) the liquidations that should have happened on 11 March 
would have achieved higher proceeds than what was achieved on 15 March.
This exercise cannot be perfect or precise, because no-one can determine exactly when the 
investment sales on 11 March would have happened, or the associated sale prices. Mr Rs 
submissions are in favour of using day-closing prices and he questions why HR selected 
11.30am. I understand his concerns. He refers to price charts showing this particular time as 
being unfavourable for prices. I have not seen enough evidence to say this was/is HRs 
motivation for selecting the time. Instead, I find its explanation about this being when (just 
under an hour after the instruction) the sales would probably have been executed to be 
plausible. The same explanation refers to time being used to input and authorise the 
associated trades, and then time for execution by its custodian. These could have been 
done within an hour.
Investment transactions are inherently time sensitive and firms are commonly expected to 
provide timely order (or instruction) execution. In the absence of evidence that Mr R 
specifically asked for liquidations at closing  which he did not ask for  I am not persuaded 
to prefer a day-closing price/execution point (many hours after the instruction) over a 
price/execution point less than an hour after his instruction. 
On balance and for the above reasons, I agree with the price/execution point of 11.30am on 
11 March.
In terms of price type, the sale transactions that should have happened on 11 March would 
have been subjected to the relevant assets market bid prices, in the bid/offer price spreads 
applicable to them. HR says the bid prices are exactly what it used in its calculations. As I 
set out below, the bid prices are what I consider fair and reasonable in the calculation of 
redress for Mr R. They reflect the price type that sale of his assets would have been 
subjected to. 
I have considered his argument about HR using non-market prices. It does not appear that 
the price chart evidence he cites, in support, shows the relevant bid/offer price spreads that 
were applicable as of 11.30am on 11 March. In contrast, HR has confirmed that its 
calculations were based on relevant published bid prices from FactSet (the online financial 
data resource). This might explain the differences that Mr R refers to, given that a bid/offer spread usually exists around a single chart price. 
In any case, my task is to determine the complaint and any redress due in it. I do not need to 
verify the calculations behind HRs offer, instead I will be setting out below what it must do to 
calculate any redress due to Mr R. As the investigator explained, we would not usually go 
into the detailed financial assessment (or calculation) of loss in cases like his. It is enough to 
set out the redress methodology that HR must follow, which is what I do in the next section. I 
agree with the investigator that HR appears to have followed the methodology we would 
expect, in as far as what its analysis covered. Nevertheless, this decision provides an 
opportunity to fully set out that expectation. 
I understand Mr Rs concerns about accuracy. HR will be required to set out its calculations 
in a clear, informative and simple format, and to share with him the calculations and the 
source information about the prices used in the calculations. 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigators finding that HR should pay Mr R £200 for the upset and 
inconvenience he has been caused in the complaint matter. He should not have experienced 
HRs delayed executions of his instructions. I consider that £200 is a fair amount, in the 
circumstances of his case, to compensate for the upset and inconvenience that experience 
caused him. I order HR to pay him £200 for this purpose.
With regards to redress for financial loss, my aim is to put Mr R as close as possible into the 
position he would be in had any investments in his ISA and jointly held GIA been sold at 
11.30am on 11 March 2022, and had his SIPP been liquidated at the first available 
dealing/trading point on 15 March 2022. 
The basis for the provisions that follow is no different from that expressed by the 
investigator, so it will surprise neither party. Like her, I find that Mr Rs instruction to liquidate 
his non-SIPP accounts should have been executed on 11 March 2022, that his instruction to 
liquidate his SIPP account should have been executed on 15 March 2022, and that redress 
is defined by these conclusions. 
However, I have set out the provisions to ensure both parties know exactly what redress 
must look like. This is particularly necessary given the dispute about calculations and given 
that Mr Rs point about an omitted ISA holding (from HRs calculations) appears to be 
supported by the absence of an ISA related contract note in the contract notes (for the 
executions on 15 March 2022) that HR has shared. HR should therefore re-do the entire 
calculation afresh and as ordered below.
Mr R and HR must engage meaningfully and co-operatively with each other to share all 
information and documentation, relevant and necessary for the calculation (and any 
payment) of redress. HR must set out its calculations in a clear, informative and simple 
format, it must provide the calculations to Mr R and it must share with him all relevant source 
information about the prices used in the calculations.
The Non-SIPP Assets
HR must: 
Verify and confirm all the investments that existed in Mr Rs ISA and his investments 
in the jointly held GIA (the non-SIPP assets) as of 11.30am on 11 March 2022. 
Calculate the total value of sale proceeds that would have been achieved if the non-SIPP assets were sold at the applicable market sale/bid prices at 11.30am on 11 
March 2022. [A]
Calculate the total value of proceeds generated from the sale of the non-SIPP assets 
on 15 March 2022. [B]
If B is greater than A, no compensation is due to Mr R. 
If A is greater than B, the difference is the financial loss resulting from the delayed 
liquidation of Mr Rs non-SIPP assets, and is the redress due to him (and that must 
be paid to him) for this part of his complaint. [C]
Pay Mr R the value of C plus the value of any applicable lost performance using as 
the benchmark the performance of his non-SIPP assets from the point of transfer up 
to the settlement date. 
The SIPP Assets
The investigators proposed redress was reconstruction of the SIPP sale as of 15 March 
2022, plus a form of interest based on performance from the point of transfer. Then Mr R 
said this suggests HR had not liquidated his SIPP on this date when the other liquidations 
happened. He said he previously understood that it had. 
His redress calculations present differences between SIPP asset prices and values on 11 
March (when he says the SIPP should have been liquidated) and exact prices and values 
(which he describes as realised) on 15 March 2022. HRs contract notes for the 
transactions it executed on the latter date do not include transactions in the SIPP. This 
suggests HR did not liquidate the SIPP on this date. Both parties appear to have explained 
their positions to the extents that they can  HR has evidenced what it did on 15 March 2022 
and Mr R is unsure about whether (or not) the SIPPs sale was done by HR. 
Mr Rs calculation evidence supports the conclusion that the SIPP has been liquidated. My 
orders cover the two main possibilities  that the SIPP was fully liquidated on 15 March 
2022; or that it was fully liquidated thereafter  whilst maintaining the same finding reached 
by the investigator that it ought to have been liquidated on 15 March 2022. I do not address 
partial sale of the SIPP because that was neither intended nor instructed by Mr R. 
The following orders apply:
If Mr Rs SIPP was liquidated on 15 March 2022, no redress is due to him for this part 
of his complaint. For the reasons given in the previous section, HR was not obliged to 
sell the assets on 11 March 2022 and the earliest that it ought to have sold them was 
on 15 March 2022. If, as a matter of fact, they were sold on 15 March 2022 there is 
no ground for redress. 
If Mr Rs SIPP was liquidated on a date after 15 March 2022   
oHe must provide full and meaningful disclosure of information to HR with 
regards to the relevant asset sales, sale prices and sale proceeds;
oHR must then calculate the total sale proceeds generated by the actual 
liquidation [actual value];
oHR must also calculate the total value of sale proceeds that would have been 
achieved if the SIPPs assets were sold, at the applicable market sale prices, 
at the first available trading point on 15 March 2022 [fair value];oHRs contract notes show that all the GIA related sales were executed on this 
date between 8.00am and 8.25am. It is therefore reasonable to define the first 
available trading point for the SIPP as being the same period, unless a 
different trading point applied to the SIPP;
oIf the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is due to   
Mr R;
oIf the fair value is greater than the actual value, the difference is the financial 
loss resulting from the delayed liquidation of Mr Rs SIPP, and is the redress 
due to him (and that must be paid to him) for this part of his complaint;
oIn addition, he must be paid the value of any applicable lost performance 
using as the benchmark his SIPP from the point of transfer up to the 
settlement date.
oHR should pay the total redress amount into Mr Rs SIPP, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation; the payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief; the compensation should not be 
paid into his SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance; 
if the compensation cannot be paid into his SIPP, it must be paid directly to 
him; had it been possible to pay it into the SIPP, it would have provided a 
taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid; the notional 
allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age (for example, if he is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax and if he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation).
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000, £375,000 or £415,000 
(depending on when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to 
us) plus any interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the 
compensation limit the respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such 
balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and 
it is unlikely that a complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such 
balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in 
this respect before deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Rs case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened in March 2022) 
and the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2022, so the applicable compensation limit 
would be £375,000.
decision and award 
I uphold Mr Rs complaint on the specific basis stated above. I think that fair compensation 
should be calculated as I have also stated above. My decision is that HR should pay him the 
amount produced by that calculation, up to the compensation limit.
recommendation
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more than the 
compensation limit, I recommend that HR pays Mr R the balance. This recommendation is 
not part of my determination or award. HR does not have to do what I recommend. My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint on the specific grounds and reasons given above. I order 
Henderson Rowe Ltd to calculate and pay him any resulting compensation as set out above. 
Henderson Rowe Ltd must also pay him £200 for the upset and inconvenience caused to 
him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman