DRN-4414935
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited denied her request to reject a car she 
had acquired from it and harassed her with correspondence and phone calls about her 
arrears.
What happened
In April 2022 Mrs P entered into a regulated hire purchase agreement with Startline to buy a 
used car. The car was eight and a half years old, and had been driven nearly 65,200 miles. 
Its cash price was £5,190.
Shortly afterwards, she told the dealer that there was a small tear in the fabric on one of the 
seats, but the dealer refused to repair this as it described the damage as cosmetic. When, 
later, she reported this damage to Startline, she received a similar answer: due to the age of 
the car, this tear did not mean that the car was not of satisfactory quality, considering its age.
In October 2022 Mrs P complained to the dealer, and later to Startline, that the soft roof had 
a leak in it and the exhaust had blown. This time, Startline accepted that this was capable of 
meaning that the car had been of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. But it said that 
due to the time that had passed since then, it needed more evidence. It asked Mrs Ps son, 
who was acting on her behalf at the time, to arrange an independent inspection of the car. 
He replied to say this was not necessary, and that Startline should just take the car back.
Meanwhile, in September 2022 Mrs P had stopped her direct debit (which she said was an 
accident). Startline wrote to her about that and about a missed payment. Mrs P received 
further letters, emails and phone calls, and she complains that this was harassment. In 
December her son asked Startline to communicate with him instead of with his mother; there 
is a dispute about whether this request was made on 3 or 8 December. Mrs P complains that 
Startline did not comply with this request but continued to pester her. She has mental health 
issues which made this contact more onerous.
Mrs Ps son told Startline that she could no longer afford to make her monthly payments. In 
November 2022 Startline terminated the hire purchase agreement. But the car was not 
repossessed until February 2023. Mrs P complains about this delay, during which time she 
says the leak in the roof got worse and mould appeared inside the car. She says this may 
have reduced the value of the car by the time it was sold at auction. After the sale, there 
remained an outstanding balance of over £3,000.
In its final response to her complaint, Startline said that there had not been evidence that the 
car had been defective at the point of sale, since Mrs P had not agreed to have the car 
inspected. It said that the tear in the seat was within the BVRLAs standards, for a car of that 
age, and did not amount to a defect. It said it had been obliged to write to her about the 
arrears, and to send her a default notice and a termination letter. But it said it had complied 
with her sons request on 8 December to communicate with him instead of Mrs P.
Mrs P then brought this complaint to our service. But our investigator did not uphold it. She 
thought that there was not enough evidence that the car had been faulty when sold. She 
also thought that even if there had been an inspection, it was unlikely that it would have 
found that a leak which had appeared about six months after the point of sale had been 
present all along. So she decided that Startline was not liable for that. She said Startline had 
been entitled to terminate the agreement and default Mrs Ps account, because she had not 
kept up her monthly payments. She did not agree that Startline had been harassing Mrs P, 
because it had had to send her letters such as the default notice. She said Startline had 
written to Mrs Ps son when he had asked it to, but then when the car had been auctioned he 
had asked Startline to stop contacting him, so it had had to write to Mrs P again. So she 
concluded that Startline had done nothing wrong. 
Mrs P did not accept that opinion. She re-iterated that her mental health had made her 
vulnerable and that Startlines repeated contact had caused her stress. She emphasised that 
Startline had delayed repossessing the car. So this case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was sold?
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Startline is liable to Mrs P if it sold her a car which 
was not of satisfactory quality at the time it was sold or hired; that is, in April 2022. It is not 
liable for any faults which develop afterwards. And when deciding whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality or not, it is not reasonable to expect a used car to be of the same 
standard as a brand new one. Allowance has to be made for wear and tear over the years 
and miles. I think that a small tear in the fabric of a seat is not serious enough to mean that 
Mrs Ps car was not satisfactory. (This is what the dealer meant when it called the tear 
cosmetic.)
A leak in the roof is altogether different. That would certainly mean that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality, if the leak was present when the car was sold. But if the leak had been 
present in April, then I dont think it would have taken until October to make its present felt. 
So on the balance of probabilities, I think it is likely that the leak appeared some time after 
Mrs P acquired the car. I therefore think that Startline is not liable for that. And I think the 
same thing about the exhaust.
Did Startline harass Mrs P?
I have no doubt that Mrs P felt harassed and stressed. However, I can only hold Startline 
responsible for that if I decide that its communications with her were excessive or otherwise 
unwarranted. And I am not persuaded that they were.
Ive seen evidence that Startline sent ten letters to Mrs P in the period from September to 
November 2022. Five of these consisted of one letter about a missed payment, another 
about the cancelled direct debit, a third confirming the terms of a six-week payment plan to 
clear Mrs Ps arrears, the default notice, and the termination letter. Those were all letters 
which Startline had to send her. The other five were about late payments or payment 
reminders, which were arguably not essential but which were still legitimate to send, to try 
and avoid further arrears building up. I can see how receiving ten letters in thirteen weeks 
would be stressful (especially to someone with anxiety and the other issues Mrs P has), but 
I think that a certain amount of stress cant be avoided when somebody is in financial difficulty and is unable to make their payments. Startline had a duty to treat her 
sympathetically and positively, and I think it did that (by agreeing a repayment plan, for 
example).
All those letters were sent before her son asked Startline to contact him instead of Mrs P in 
December. Whether that request was first made on 3 December or five days later does not 
seem to me to be of paramount importance; I can see from emails and from Startlines 
contact notes that Startline was communicating with Mrs Ps son in most of December 2022 
and in early 2023, so Im satisfied that this request was complied with. (The exception is 
Startlines final response to Mrs Ps complaint, which was addressed to her; this might be 
because its complaint department sent that, while another department was pursuing her 
payments. That isnt ideal, but I dont think one letter is enough to merit financial 
compensation.)
Was there an unnecessary delay in repossessing the car?
The termination letter was sent on 24 November 2022, but the car was not repossessed until 
3 February 2023. Meanwhile, on 26 January, Startline sent Mrs P its final response. This 
included the following paragraph:
We placed a hold on any repossession actions to determine an outcome to your 
concerns over the faults with the vehicle however as we are unable to conclude this part 
of your complaint, repossession actions will now recommence. As such, contact will be 
made with [your son] to discuss vehicle collection soon.
I think that is a reasonable explanation.
I have considered the possible counter-argument that Mrs Ps son had told Startline on 15 
December 2022 that he did not agree to an independent inspection and that he just wanted 
Startline to collect the car instead, so Startline should have collected the car in December. 
However, I dont think that is persuasive, for the following reasons. Mr P wasnt asking for 
repossession (which does not end his mothers liability under the hire purchase agreement), 
but for rejection (which does). So before Startline could collect the car in accordance with his 
wishes, it had to ascertain whether Mrs P was entitled to exercise a statutory right to reject 
the car. It needed an inspection to do that. Startline subsequently emailed Mrs Ps son on 6 
and 16 January 2023 to try to get him to change his mind about not getting one. I dont think 
that was unreasonable, because the alternative  repossession  was a less favourable 
outcome for her, and not to be used as a first resort. So I dont think there was undue delay.
As for the continuing water ingress and mould inside the car during this period, I dont think 
Startline is responsible for that. Paragraph 6.1 of the terms and conditions of the hire 
purchase agreement required Mrs P to look after the car while it was in her possession. So it 
was her responsibility to protect it from further damage (for example, by putting a tarpaulin 
over it). If the increased damage resulted in the car being sold at auction for a lower price 
than it might otherwise have got, then that is not Startlines fault.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman