DRN-2797293
The complaint
Mr B complains about Harwood Claims Management Limited trading as Hidenda (HCM) and 
the settlement fee theyve charged him following a successful claim for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
On 28 August 2019, Mr B instructed HCM to complete what he thought as a free PPI check 
with lender L. He signed a letter of authority (LOA) and letter of engagement (LOE) 
electronically, in order to allow HCM to do this. 
Mr B says he received additional documentation to sign from HCM. But by this point, hed 
decided he didnt want to use their services. So, he ignored the documentation and dealt 
with lender L directly. 
In August 2020, lender L upheld Mr Bs claim for mis-sold PPI on two of his loans, and 
offered him a total gross refund of £1,811.95, which equated to £1584.98 after tax. HCM 
were notified of this refund by lender L in October 2020, and they invoiced Mr B for their 
settlement fee of £434.87 shortly after. Mr B was unhappy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr B thought HCM had acted unfairly by invoicing him for their settlement fee. He didnt think 
hed authorised them to pursue a claim on his behalf and hed dealt with lender L directly to 
secure a refund. And he didnt think the signature shown on the LOA or LOE was his. He 
was also unhappy with the wording of the invoice and following chaser letters, as he felt they 
were threatening and harassing. So, Mr B wanted HCM to waive the settlement fee they 
were chasing him for. 
HCM didnt agree. They thought Mr B had agreed to their terms and conditions when he 
signed the LOA and LOE electronically. And they thought it was made reasonably clear they 
would pursue a claim if PPI was identified. They thought theyd submitted the claim which 
had been successful, which was evidenced by lender L sending them a copy of the offer 
letter. So, they thought theyd acted reasonably when invoicing Mr B for their fee, in line with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. Mr B remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained we were unable 
to decide on whether the signature shown on the LOA and LOE was Mr Bs as we dont have 
the expertise to do so. But he explained hed thought about what he thought was most likely 
to have happened. And he thought it was most likely Mr B had signed the LOA and LOE 
electronically. And he thought by doing so, Mr B had authorised HCM to pursue a claim on 
his behalf, whether or not he returned further documents.
Our investigator thought BCM had submitted the claim to HCM, as lender L had HCM listed 
as Mr Bs representative and provided HCM with a copy of the offer letter. So, even though 
he acknowledged Mr B had spoke with lender L directly, he thought HCMs work had led to 
the successful PPI refund. And because of this, he thought they were fair to charge their 
settlement fee.
And as the fee was owed to them, he thought HCM were fair to chase Mr B for payment, so 
he didnt agree HCM had been threatening towards Mr B. So, he didnt think HCM needed to 
do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree. He maintained his opinion that he hadnt authorised HCM to pursue a full 
claim on his behalf. And even if they were authorised, he thought hed completed the work 
that led to the successful refund. So, he didnt think the fee should be payable. And he 
maintained his belief that HCMs invoice and payment letters were threatening and unfair. As 
Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr B. Ive no doubt Mr B 
believed hed disengaged from HCMs services when he didnt return documentation to 
them. And I recognise he also had conversations with lender L directly. So, when he 
received an invoice from HCM for their settlement fee, I can understand why Mr B would be 
left feeling both confused and upset. And as he disputed this fee, I can understand why hed 
be frustrated by HCMs decision to continue chasing him for payment.
But for me to say HCM should waive their fee, Id need be satisfied of one of two things. 
Either, Id need to be satisfied that HCM didnt hold valid authority to pursue Mr Bs claim. 
Or, that they completed no work of value on Mr Bs successful claims. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Im aware Mr B has questioned the signature on the LOA and LOE. But Im unable to decide 
on the validity of the signature as Im not a handwriting expert. That being said, Mr B 
contacted HCM online when instructing them to conduct a free PPI check. So, I wouldnt 
have expected the signature to be identical to his wet signature, as it wouldve been entered 
electronically. So, instead, Ive thought about what I think was most likely to have happened.
And Im aware Mr B doesnt dispute asking HCM to complete a free PPI check on his behalf. 
Hes acknowledged their involvement initially, as he recognised he received further 
documentation to complete which he decided not to return. Ive seen the webpages Mr B 
wouldve seen in order to instruct HCM to do this. And Ive seen that he needed to 
electronically sign a LOA and an LOE to do this. So, on the balance of probability, I think its 
reasonable for me to assume Mr B completed these electronic documents.
Ive also seen that Mr B was told to only sign the LOE if he had read, and was happy to 
agree to, the LOE and its accompanying terms and conditions. The LOE explained that 
HCM would complete a Subject Access Request, complete a thorough investigation of Mr 
Bs accounts, pursue a settlement with lender L and negotiate and settle any claim with 
lender L. And the terms and conditions explain HCM would pursue any claims were PPI had 
been identified and set out the fees HCM would charge if a claim was successful.As I think its most likely Mr B signed this LOE, I think he authorised HCM to pursue claims 
on his behalf and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of that agreement. So, 
even though Mr B thought hed disengaged HCM by not providing further documents, I dont 
think thats the case.
I can appreciate Mr Bs comments about being asked to sign further documentation, and 
why this led him to believe he could stop the claim at that point. But its standard practice for 
companies such as HCM to ask for a wet signature as well, as some lenders will request this 
at a later stage in the claim. In this situation, lender L didnt think this was necessary. But 
either way, I dont think this detracted from the authorisation Mr B provided HCM when 
electronically signing the LOA and the LOE. So, I think HCM had authority to pursue Mr Bs 
claim and didnt do anything wrong by doing so.
Im also aware Mr B disputes the work HCM completed on his claim, as he felt he liaised 
with lender L directly. And although Ive seen the handwritten PPI questionnaire he 
completed, Ive seen this was signed and dated in September 2020, a month after lender L 
issued their offer letter with his PPI refund. 
But I dont dispute Mr B is likely to have spoken to lender L directly. Its standard practice for 
lenders such as lender L to contact customers directly to discuss the circumstances of the 
initial PPI sale to aide their investigation. So, I can understand why Mr B disputes the fee 
and the work HCM completed.
But I dont think this means HCM have completed no work of value. Ive seen the offer letter 
lender L sent to Mr B. This was also sent to HCM. So, this satisfies me that lender L had 
HCM listed as Mr Bs representative and because of this, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume it was HCM who submitted Mr Bs initial claim. Without this, I dont think Mr Bs 
claim wouldve been successful as it wouldnt have been received by lender L within the PPI 
deadline, which was the day after Mr B signed up to HCMs services.
And HCMs fee isnt based on the amount of work they complete. The agreement Mr B 
entered into was a no win no fee agreement, where HCMs fee was based on the total 
refund Mr B received from lender L. And I think the PPI refund Mr B received directly 
resulted from the submission HCM made to lender L. So, I think theyve acted reasonably 
when invoicing Mr B for their settlement fee. The fee they have invoiced Mr B for is in line 
with the fee structure set out within the terms and conditions, so I think HCM have acted 
fairly and the fee remains payable.
I understand Mr B is unhappy with the way HCM chased him for payment of this fee. But, as 
I think the fee was payable, I think HCM were able to collect the fee in a way they saw fit. 
Ive read the letters Mr B has provided, which he thinks were threatening. But I dont think 
thats the case. While I understand HCM referenced that legal action may be taken, this falls 
in line with the terms and conditions Mr B agreed to when he signed the LOE. And at this 
point, I think Mr B owed HCM their settlement fee and Id expect HCM to make it reasonably 
clear to Mr B the actions they may take if the fee remained unpaid. So, I dont think I can say 
they way HCM attempted to collect their fee was unfair. And because of this, I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
But I am aware its been some time since Mr B received his PPI refund. And I can appreciate 
he may no longer have the funds available to pay HCMs fee in full. Id expect HCM to act 
positively and sympathetically to Mr Bs situation and work with Mr B to agree an affordable 
way of paying the fee is necessary.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. And I recognise this decision leaves 
Mr B with at outstanding fee to pay which will be upsetting. But I hope this decision goes some way to explaining why I think HCM have acted fairly in the situation and provides Mr B 
with some closure to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Harwood Claims 
Management Limited trading as Hidenda.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman