DRN-3970900
The complaint
Mr B complains Hub Financial Solutions Limiteds (Hub) poor service delayed its advice 
process regarding Mr Bs defined benefit (DB) pension scheme benefits. Mr B says this 
caused him a financial loss because it meant his transfer value expired, so this had to be 
recalculated and decreased by £28,737.48.
What happened
Mr B was interested in transferring his DB pension, so in October 2020 he contacted his DB 
pension provider and adviser, Hub. In the following months, Hub began gathering 
information about Mr Bs circumstances. Mr B told Hub he wasnt in the UK for the time 
being. Given this, on 8 December 2020 Hub told Mr B it wasnt sure it had the regulators 
relevant permissions to advise him while he was out of the UK, and needed to check this. 
The same day, Mr B emailed Hub further information about his residency situation. And on 
9 December 2020, Hub emailed Mr B to thank him for confirming he was a UK resident. 
Over the next few months, there was communication between Mr B, Hub and Mr Bs DB 
scheme provider. The original transfer value of Mr Bs DB pension was initially valid until 
24 February 2021, but Mr Bs DB pension provider extended this by three weeks, so it was 
valid until 17 March 2021. 
Mr B says that by April 2021, Hub had given him contradictory information about whether he 
needed to return to the UK before it could advise him  and he did briefly return to the UK 
but Hub didnt respond. And his original transfer value had expired so he had to get a new 
transfer value, which was £28,737.48 less than the original value. 
Mr B thought Hub had given him poor service and not progressed its advice process as it 
should have. So, Mr B consulted another financial adviser about transferring his DB scheme 
benefits. And he complained to Hub about its delays. 
Hub said it didnt hold regulatory permissions to advise members who werent UK residents, 
and it had explained this to Mr B in February 2021. And when Mr B said he was returning to 
the UK, it had obtained a new transfer value, and hadnt caused any unnecessary delays. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B came to our Service. He said hed told Hub he and his wife were 
resident in the UK. And Hub had bullied him, by wrongly insisting they return to the UK 
during the covid pandemic and wrongly telling Mr B he wouldnt be able to get another 
financial adviser to deal with the DB transfer. Mr B said his new adviser had been able to 
progress his DB transfer in about six weeks. And Mr B thought Hub and his DB scheme 
provider hadnt worked together as they should have.
One of our Investigators upheld Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think Hub had bullied Mr B, but 
thought Hub could have told Mr B sooner that it couldnt advise him due its concerns about 
his UK residency status. If Hub had done so, she thought Mr B wouldve been able to 
complete his transfer through another adviser using the original, higher, transfer value. To 
put things right, she said Hub should put Mr B into the position hed have been in but for its 
error and carry out a redress calculation on that basis. And that Hub should also pay Mr B 
£300 compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience it caused him. 
Mr B accepted our Investigators view. But Hub disagreed with our Investigator. It said the 
regulators guidance and permissions meant it couldnt advise people outside the UK, and it 
told Mr B this on 8 December 2020. So Mr B could then have sought advice elsewhere if 
hed wanted. But a transfer wouldnt have been completed before the original transfer value 
expired anyway, because Mr B took several weeks to return the initial paperwork. And 
Mr Bs circumstances - including not having clear or fixed retirement plans - meant it needed 
to ask him for more information, since the regulators starting point was that DB transfers 
werent suitable unless the adviser could clearly demonstrate a transfer was in the 
consumers best interest. 
Our Investigator shared Hubs comments with Mr B. Mr B said hed told Hub in December 
2020 that he was a UK resident, and was told face to face meetings werent necessary, so 
he saw no need to travel back to the UK just for this matter. Mr B said he planned to travel 
during his retirement but wasnt sure where to or when. And hed been unable to return the 
initial paperwork sooner because Hub hadnt properly responded to his queries. Mr B said 
hed already given Hub all the additional information it later asked for. And that Hub didnt 
say it couldnt advise him. But it did say he couldnt move to another adviser, which 
amounted to bullying because he felt intimidated and powerless. Mr B thought a high 
workload and lack of training meant Hubs adviser couldnt deal with their clients effectively. 
Our Investigator didnt change their view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
came to me to consider. I asked Mr B for some further information and evidence about what 
happened after he went to another financial adviser, and Mr B provided this.
On 2 February 2023, I issued my provisional decision. In summary, I thought Hub should 
have clearly told Mr B by 22 December 2020 that it wasnt going to take him any further 
through the advice process due to its residency concerns, and that £300 was fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that caused Mr B. But that even if Mr B 
had started over with a new adviser at the very start of January 2021, I wasnt persuaded he 
would have been able to complete the transfer process before his original transfer value 
expired. So, I didnt think Hub needed to compensate Mr B for the financial loss he 
experienced due to the change in the transfer value of his DB scheme.
Hub said it had nothing further to add. However, Mr B provided further comments. In 
summary, he said:
His residency is a diversion here, he still pays UK tax on his pension income anyway. 
Hub caused delays. Mr B first approached Hub in October 2020, but it then took two 
months to appoint an advisor and agree an initial meeting. And by March 2021, Hub was 
still trying to understand his financial situation and asking him for information hed 
already provided. 
Hub didnt need two weeks in December 2020 to confirm its position on his residency, a 
day or two wouldve been more reasonable. If Hub had confirmed its position on his 
residency within two days of 8 December 2020, Mr B could have met a different adviser 
the following week and transferred before the original CETV expired. 
Hub was the professional here and knew the timescales involved. Hub was directly 
responsible for Mr Bs financial loss by means of its continued delays. And I wasnt 
holding Hub accountable.Im now in a position to make my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the evidence and comments provided to me regarding Mr Bs 
complaint against Hub, Im still upholding it. But I still think Hub doesnt need to compensate 
Mr B for his loss in transfer value. I realise this will be very disappointing to Mr B, but Ill 
explain my reasons.  
Mr B says he first approached Hub in October 2020, but Hub then took two months to 
appoint an advisor and agree an initial meeting. The timeline Mr B provided to Hub as part of 
his complaint says Mr B called his DB pension provider on 1 October 2020 and was directed 
to call Hub. He contacted Hub that same day, and Hub sent him an information pack. Mr Bs 
timeline says Mr B thought that pack was asking for too much information about his wife. 
And that the next thing to happen was that Mr B contacted his DB pension provider on 
11 November 2020 to deal with it directly, and it told him it would send him illustrations. Mr B 
then chased his DB pension provider for these on 27 November 2020 and received them on 
7 December 2020. And Mr B then contacted Hub on 8 December 2020. So based on Mr Bs 
own timeline of events, Im not persuaded that Hub is responsible for any unnecessary 
delays Mr B thinks happened prior to 8 December 2020. 
At the time Mr B was in contact with Hub, it seems his living situation was somewhat fluid, 
given he was currently out of the UK and mindful of travel and health restrictions. Hub raised 
the issue of residency with Mr B on 8 December 2020  it told him it was sometimes unable 
to give advice if people were abroad and it would need to check what this meant for Mr B. In 
the email Mr B sent Hub the same day, Mr B provided more information about where and 
when hed been living. The next day, Hub thanked Mr B for confirming he was a UK resident. 
I understand Mr B thinks the question of his residency is a diversion. I should be clear that 
Im not making any findings about his residency. But its still the case that Mr Bs residency 
status is relevant context here, because Hub has explained it didnt have the permissions 
from the regulator to advise people outside the UK. Ultimately, Hub can choose not to 
provide advice if it thinks the circumstances mean it doesnt have the permissions to do so. 
But it still needed to treat Mr B fairly and reasonably by explaining to this him clearly and 
without unnecessary delay. So the key issue for me to decide is whether Hub should have 
told Mr B sooner and more clearly that it was not going to go any further through the advice 
process with him because of its ongoing concerns about his residency status. And I think 
Hub should have. Ill explain why.
As Mr B says, Hub was the professional here. Its clear Hub was aware on 8 December 2020 
that there was a potential issue with Mr Bs residency status. But despite Hub thanking Mr B 
the next day for confirming he was a UK resident, this matter resurfaced over the next few 
months  Hub later told Mr B it could only advise him if he was in the UK, and there were 
discussions about if and when Mr B might come back to the UK. So it seems to me that Hub 
never really satisfied itself that Mr B was a UK resident. And while it did tell Mr B it couldnt 
give him advice if he wasnt in the UK, Mr B was left with the impression he just needed to 
visit the UK. Hub didnt clearly and unambiguously explain to Mr B that it would go no further 
with this advice process because it wasnt satisfied about his UK residency. 
As I say, Hub knew about this potential residency problem on 8 December 2020. Mr B 
argues that a day or two was a fair and reasonable length of time for Hub to then have 
properly looked into this matter and resolved it with him. But I dont agree. On 8 December 2020, Mr B was speaking to Hub but this was at a very early stage in its advice process and 
Mr B was not yet speaking to one of its qualified advisers. So it reasonable to think Hub 
needed to properly review the information it had and consider it, likely by referring the matter 
to other parts of its business that had the relevant expertise. And Hub then needed to 
communicate its response to Mr B. Given all this, and bearing in mind that Mr B wouldnt 
have been Hubs only customer at that time, I remain of the opinion that two weeks is a fair 
and reasonable length of time to expect Hub to have taken to properly consider its position 
on Mr Bs residency and clearly and unambiguously resolve this with Mr B.
So Hub should have told Mr B by 22 December 2020 that it wasnt going to go any further 
with him due to its residency concerns. If it had done so, I think Mr B would have gone 
elsewhere for advice sooner, as hes shown thats what he eventually did anyway  Ill return 
to this. Mr B says that Hub caused further delays here, because by March 2021, it was still 
trying to understand his financial situation and asking him for information hed already 
provided. I agree Hub caused delays here. Im satisfied Hubs failure to tell Mr B by 
22 December 2020 that it wasnt going to go any further with him due to its residency 
concerns caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience. Because it left Mr B worried about 
whether and when it was going to give him advice, and caused him to have unnecessary 
ongoing contact with Hub for about two and a half months longer than was needed. I think 
compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable for that distress and inconvenience. 
Mr B says Hub essentially bullied him by telling him to return to the UK during a pandemic 
and saying he wouldnt be able to get another adviser to carry out his DB transfer. But I dont 
agree. Based on the evidence Ive been provided with, including recordings of the calls and 
online meetings Mr B had with Hub, Im satisfied that Hub instead explained to Mr B that it 
could only give him DB transfer advice if he returned to the UK, and the relative difficulty in 
transferring DB scheme benefits, given the regulators starting point that DB transfers arent 
suitable unless an adviser can clearly demonstrate a transfer is in the consumers best 
interest. I think Hub explained these things politely and professionally to Mr B. 
As I say, Hub should have told Mr B by 22 December 2020 that it wasnt going to take the 
advice process any further with him due to its residency concerns. That would only have 
been a few days before the Christmas and New Year break. So while I accept Mr B was 
committed to progressing things as quickly as he could, its reasonable to think that even if 
Mr B had tried to start the advice process with another adviser at that point, its more likely 
than not that he wouldnt have been able to make any meaningful progress until about 4 
January 2021. 
Mr B has provided me with correspondence and documents in relation to his new adviser 
and new SIPP. Mr B says he first contacted his new adviser on 9 March 2021, and I can see 
he met with them on 15 March 2021. By early June 2021, his new adviser had provided him 
with advice and on 2 June 2021 Mr B applied to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a new 
SIPP. On 15 June 2021, Mr Bs new SIPP provider confirmed it had received his signed 
transfer request and would proceed to liaise with his DB scheme provider to process the DB 
transfer. The DB scheme benefits were then transferred to Mr Bs new SIPP on 8 September 
2021. 
This means it took around 12 weeks between Mr B first contacting his new adviser on 
9 March 2021 and him applying to transfer his DB benefits on 2 June 2021. And it then took 
a further 14 weeks for Mr Bs DB scheme benefits to be transferred to his new SIPP. 
So even if Hub had clearly explained to Mr B on 22 December 2020 that it wasnt going to go 
any further with this advice process, and Mr B had started the process with a new adviser as 
early as possible in January 2021, I think its still the case that Mr B wouldnt have been able 
to benefit from the original and higher transfer value. I see no reason to think Mr Bs new adviser wouldve progressed things any faster overall 
just because Mr B had contacted them a couple of months earlier. So if Mr B contacted a 
new adviser as soon as he could in early January 2021, I think his new adviser would still 
have taken the 12 weeks it did in fact later take to get things to the point where Mr B 
received advice and applied to transfer his DB benefits. And that takes us to about 2 April 
2021. Mr Bs original transfer valuation had already expired around two weeks earlier than 
this point, even with the three-week extension. So even if Hub had told Mr B on 
22 December 2020 that it couldnt advise him further, Im satisfied that Mr B would still have 
needed to get a new transfer value, and this new value was unfortunately significantly lower 
than the original. 
Putting things right
In summary then, I still think that by 22 December 2020 Hub should have clearly told Mr B 
that it wasnt going to take him any further through the advice process due to its residency 
concerns. And I think £300 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience that 
caused Mr B. This is what Hub is responsible for. 
But I dont think Hub is responsible for Mr Bs financial loss. Because as Ive explained, even 
if Mr B had started over with a new adviser at the very start of January 2021, Im not 
persuaded he would have been able to complete the transfer process before his original 
transfer value expired. So while I understand Mr B feels very strongly that Hub is directly 
responsible for his financial loss, Im not asking Hub to compensate Mr B for the financial 
loss he experienced due to the change in the transfer value of his DB scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Hub Financial Solutions Limited should pay Mr B £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman