DRN-2886497
The complaint
Mr Ks complained that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declined the claim he made on his 
gadget insurance policy for a lost mobile phone.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr K bought a new mobile phone.  He had the option to return it within 
14 days of purchase.  Mr K says he returned the phone during this period.  But, when he 
was in the store, he changed his mind and immediately re-bought it.
In December 2019, Mr K lost his phone during a shopping trip.  He reported the loss and 
submitted a claim to Amtrust.
Amtrust investigated his claim.  This included asking Mr K to provide proofs of purchase and 
usage, as well as verifying personal information and the circumstances of the loss.  Having 
received all of this, Amtrust concluded there were some irregularities in the claim, as the 
information showed that Mr K had returned his phone to the supplier and received a refund.
Mr K explained that he had returned and re-purchased the phone.  Amtrust considered this 
alongside the other information theyd gathered.  They declined Mr Ks claim in April 2020 on 
the basis that the information hed sent them showed hed returned the phone and received 
a refund.  And Amtrust said that Mr K had fabricated the proof of usage document, because 
the document information post dated the letter Mr K had submitted from his network 
provider.
Mr K challenged Amtrusts decision.  Amtrust invited him to send any more evidence he had 
for them to review.  But they didnt change their previous decision.  Mr K complained.
Amtrust investigated Mr Ks complaint and rejected it.  They endorsed their previous reasons 
for declining the claim.  And they told Mr K they believed his claim was a deliberate attempt 
to defraud them.  So they cancelled his policy.
Mr K brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator considered it but concluded that Amtrust 
didnt need to do anything differently to resolve the matter.  He said he was satisfied that 
Amtrust had tried to get information from Mr K which supported his claim.  And he didnt 
think the conclusions theyd drawn about the evidence theyd received were unreasonable.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its not my role to say whether a claim should be settled. Rather, I consider whether an 
insurer has dealt with a claim fairly, and in line with the terms of their policy.   
Ive seen that Amtrust declined Mr Ks claim because they concluded the proof of usage he 
supplied had been fabricated.  And they said the phone had been returned to the supplier, 
whod refunded the purchase price to Mr K.
Ive looked at the policy document.  It says that proofs of purchase and usage must be 
provided in support of a claim.  And it includes a section headed Fraud which says:
We employ a dedicated team of fraud specialists. If any fraudulent or misleading claim is 
made or if any fraudulent or misleading means are used under this insurance, you will not 
be allowed to continue with your claim and your policy will be cancelled with immediate 
effect and no refund will be returned.
Its clear the proofs supplied by Mr K aroused suspicion with Amtrust.  They asked him more 
questions about these.  And they told him not only that they were declining his claim, but 
also the reasons why.
Ive seen the proof of usage document Mr K supplied.  The documents properties do show 
the proof of usage letter was created after the date on the letter, and of the email to which it 
was attached.  Im persuaded by this that Amtrusts decision about the veracity of the letter 
was reasonable.  
And Ive seen an email which shows me Mr K challenged Amtrusts decision.  The email 
invites Mr K to supply any further evidence he wanted Amtrust to look at.  Mr K provided 
evidence that hes purchased the phone a second time.  
But Ive not seen anything to show me he provided any evidence to Amtrust to challenge 
their conclusion that the proof of usage document was fraudulent.  And, having reached that 
conclusion, it was reasonable for Amtrust to reject Mr Ks claim in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman