DRN-4183127
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs R used to hold with Barclays UK Plc. It relates to 
how Barclays treated her when the mortgage was approaching the term end in 2019.
What happened
The broad circumstances of the dispute are known to Mrs R and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs R being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main events giving 
rise to the complaint and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs Rs mortgage was interest-only, and due for repayment in late 2019. Mrs Rs intended 
means of repaying the capital was by selling the mortgaged property, which was not her 
main residence. Mrs R wanted to carry out some refurbishment work before putting the 
house on the market, in order to maximise its value. However, she didnt have funds 
available for the refurbishment. 
In a meeting at her local branch, Mrs R asked for a term extension to allow her to complete 
the refurbishment; this was turned down, so Mrs R took out a lifetime mortgage on another 
property and repaid the Barclays mortgage. She subsequently complained after a member of 
Barclays staff apparently told her that it could have helped her with a term extension. Mrs R 
is seeking to be reimbursed the fees she paid for the lifetime mortgage, which are just under 
£5,000. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs R also told us that her ability to carry out the refurbishment was hindered by Barclays 
deliberately delaying paying her a compensation award for the mis-selling of PPI. Our 
investigator said he couldnt consider that aspect because Mrs R hadnt raised it in time. 
Mrs R remains unhappy so the case has come to me for review. In a decision dated 
28 June 2022, I determined that our jurisdiction to consider this complaint was confined to 
refusal to grant a term extension in 2019. The PPI element was time-barred under our rules 
and therefore outside our jurisdiction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive set out my conclusions and the reasons for them below.
My starting point here is that Mrs R borrowed money from Barclays, and under the terms of 
her agreement with Barclays, was due to repay the money in September 2019. No one is 
entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not automatically 
entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must treat 
customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means assessing 
it in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what mortgage 
regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made 
public.
Where someone cannot repay an interest-only mortgage when its due, then wed expect the 
lender to have a conversation with the borrower about their circumstances, and try to work 
out a plan for repaying the mortgage. If that means providing more time, then fairness 
requires a lender to consider doing so. But Mrs R wasnt someone who couldnt repay her 
interest-only mortgage. 
Mrs R had the means to repay the mortgage when it was due, by selling the mortgaged 
property; and doing so would not have deprived Mrs R of her home. Rather, the available 
evidence indicates that she didnt want to do sell, rather than that she couldnt. Mrs R has 
admitted she wanted to maximise the sale price by carrying out refurbishment work first. I 
understand why shed want to do that but I dont consider it a reason why Barclays should 
have been required to extend the mortgage term for an indeterminate amount (Mrs R has 
said she would have liked anything from one to three years). 
If Mrs R had wanted to refurbish the property before selling, then Barclays was reasonably 
entitled to expect her to have completed the works at an earlier date, thus allowing the 
property to be sold in time for the mortgage end date, or at least soon after provided it was 
being actively marketed. I say this not least because the expiry of the mortgage, and the 
need to repay it when due, should not have come as a surprise to Mrs R. Shed had the 
entire life of the mortgage to prepare for repaying the mortgage when it was actually due.
Mrs R told our investigator that shed been unable to fund the repairs before the mortgage 
ended. That may be so, but I dont think her desire to maximise the selling price was enough 
to justify not complying with the terms of the contract shed entered into when she borrowed 
the money.
I agree with the investigator to some degree, that it might have been helpful if thered been a 
more detailed discussion about the alternatives available to Mrs R other than a term 
extension, and what might be in her best interests. But I dont think anything different would 
have happened if such a discussion had taken place. Thats because the overriding point 
here is that Mrs R did have alternatives to a term extension. One of those was to sell the 
mortgaged property as it was. Another was to source funding elsewhere to repay the 
mortgage, and that was the option she chose. That came at a cost  approximately £5,000 
to set up the lifetime mortgage  but it was Mrs Rs choice to incur those costs. Mrs R has said Barclays could have taken her husbands financial resources into account 
when considering whether to grant the term extension. But I wouldnt expect Barclays to 
have factored the financial situation of Mrs Rs husband into the assessment it made.  
Mrs Rs husband wasnt a party to the mortgage, and hadnt given a personal covenant to 
pay the mortgage. So Barclays would have had no recourse against him in the event the 
mortgage wasnt repaid. Nor was it incumbent on Barclays to offer unsolicited advice that 
Mrs Rs husband apply to become a party to the mortgage as a means of extending it.
In summary, the decision not to extend the term was a commercial judgement for Barclays to 
make. Insofar as the decision wasnt inconsistent with the banks lending policy and current 
regulatory requirements, theres no reasonable grounds for me to second-guess Barclays 
judgement. I fully understand that Mrs R found the decision unwelcome, but it wasnt unfair, 
and that is the test I have to apply. 
Lastly, Ive considered Mrs Rs claim that, subsequent to her paying the mortgage off, a 
representative of Barclays told her that the bank would have been willing to extend the 
mortgage after all. Theres nothing in the available evidence to corroborate this. Ive seen 
examples of printed literature where its explained that term extensions can be granted in 
certain circumstances, and thats true in general terms. 
What Ive not found, in any of the material both sides have provided, is evidence to suggest 
someone working for Barclays specifically told Mrs R that her mortgage should have been 
extended, and that the decision not to do so was wrong. Even if someone did say that to her, 
all it would have done is raise her expectations to an unreasonable level after the fact. As 
Ive already found, the decision Barclays made in 2019 not to extend the mortgage wasnt 
unfair.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from her submissions how important this is to Mrs A. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as she is here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I dont find that Barclays has treated Mrs R unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman