DRN-2873838
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his application for a 
Bounce Back Loan.
 
Mr M is represented in bringing his complaint by Ms M.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr M applied for a Bounce Back Loan. Although hes always acted as sole 
trader for his business, he made this application on behalf of C  a limited company which 
hed recently registered. Mr M said he did so because he thought the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme was only available to limited companies.
 
While Mr M already held a personal account with HSBC, C was a new customer. The bank 
required C to open a feeder account before it would accept an application from it for a 
Bounce Back Loan. So, in July, Mr M applied for a feeder account on Cs behalf.
 
HSBC rejected Cs feeder account application. It said it had followed its usual account 
opening process and its decision was in line with current policy. But Mr M was unhappy with 
the banks decision, so he complained. Specifically, he felt that  given the Scheme was 
government-backed  it was unfair of HSBC to follow its usual process and apply credit 
scoring requirements to applications.
 
HSBC sent its final response to Mr M in August, reiterating that its decision had been 
reached in line with its standard account opening procedure. HSBC also explained that while 
the Bounce Back Loan itself wasnt subject to credit scoring requirements, the feeder 
account was. So, it confirmed its decision wouldnt change.
 
Mr M remained unhappy so, in September, he approached our service. In November, Mr M 
reapplied for a Bounce Back Loan as a sole trader. But the application was made in the 
wrong name. The details within it were all Ms Ms, not Mr Ms. And when the bank couldnt 
clarify the discrepancy, it didnt proceed with the application.
An investigator here considered all that had happened  but she didnt think HSBC had 
acted unfairly. In summary, she said:
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans to new 
customers. And it was reasonable to require C to open an account first, so that the 
bank could complete anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations and as required under the Scheme.
HSBC was entitled to assess applications for a new account against its own criteria 
and had explained the checks it would make within the account application form.
HSBC had fairly assessed the application. Its internal records showed that the 
application hadnt met the banks criteria. Those criteria hadnt been adjusted in light 
of the pandemic.
When Mr M applied as a sole trader, HSBC found the details given in the application 
form werent his. The bank was unable to clarify what had happened  so it decided 
not to proceed, which was reasonable in the circumstances.  
Responding on Mr Ms behalf, Ms M said the discrepancy in the sole trader application had 
been cleared up in a phone call with the bank. She said shed spoken with HSBC and 
provided a copy of her phone bill to show the call had been made.
The investigator reconsidered events in light of Ms Ms comments about the phone call. But 
she couldnt determine the discrepancy had been clarified. So, she still didnt think HSBC 
had acted unfairly by not progressing the Bounce Back Loan application.
 
Ms M asked that an ombudsman review Mr Ms complaint. She reiterated that the 
discrepancy in Mr Ms application had been clarified, and that the bank hadnt progressed 
things as it should have. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications. And from what Ive seen, I dont think HSBC unfairly 
declined Mr Ms applications for a Bounce Back Loan. 
The initial application was made by Mr M on behalf of C, a limited company, under the 
mistaken belief that only companies were eligible. And as our investigator has explained, C 
didnt meet HSBCs criteria for a feeder account. So, given C didnt meet the criteria, I dont 
think the bank was wrong to decline that application.
It was right for Mr M to apply as a sole trader, which he went on to attempt. But that 
application was actually made in Ms Ms name, not his. Ive seen a copy of the application 
form and the name, contact and account details given are all Ms Ms. So, in effect, the 
application HSBC had received was hers. On that basis, I can understand why the bank felt 
there was a discrepancy and that it couldnt proceed. And I dont think it was wrong not to do 
so. 
HSBCs contact notes show it attempted to clarify the discrepancy. It did so by trying to 
phone Ms M, and I dont think that was unreasonable. I wouldnt expect the bank to have 
called Mr M given the application hadnt been made in his name. HSBCs notes show it rang 
Ms M on 24 November 2020  around a week after the application was submitted  but it 
couldnt reach her to discuss the matter. So, the application couldnt proceed. 
I know Mr and Ms M feel very strongly that things were cleared up. And I dont doubt their 
recollection that a call was made to the bank. After all, the screenshot Ms M has provided of 
her phone bill shows it was. On the other hand, HSBC has shown that it carried out a search 
for the call recording which returned no results. And theres nothing to suggest any technical 
issues at the time that wouldve affected the banks ability to record incoming calls. 
HSBC has said the only way a call could be made but not recorded is if the caller had been 
on hold, and then hung up without speaking to a representative. So, because theres dispute over what happened with the call, and the evidence is limited, I must decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened. 
I think its reasonable to say that if Ms M had spoken with HSBC and cleared up the 
discrepancy, then she and Mr M wouldve been expecting some movement with the 
application  or at least a response from the bank. And given how significantly Mr M has 
stressed the importance of receiving a Bounce Back Loan, if no further contact was made 
after Ms M spoke with HSBC, or if the funds werent then available to draw down, I wouldve 
thought it likely that hed chase things up with the bank. But theres no record of him, or 
Ms M, doing so.
With that in mind, and while I cant know exactly what was said on the call, theres nothing to 
suggest anything was agreed or resolved during it based on the evidence I have available. 
And given the lack of any attempt from Mr or Ms M to chase the bank, I cant safely say that I 
think HSBC said it would progress the Bounce Back Loan application. If it had, I think its 
more likely Mr or Ms M wouldve taken some action to follow things up.   
Taking everything into account, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think that HSBC acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. So, I dont require the bank to do anything 
more  and it follows that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman