DRN-2329627
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Happy Customers Group Ltd (HCG) provided poor service when it 
supplied and fitted carpets to her on credit.
  
What happened
In March 2020, HCG agreed to sell, deliver, and fit carpets to Mrs E. The cost of the carpets 
was to be paid by monthly instalments of £60 a month over several months. HCG said fitting 
would be arranged once 20% of the cost had been paid.
On 26 June 2020, fitters arrived at Mrs Es house and fitted the carpet. Later the same day 
Mrs E contacted HCG to complain about the fitting. Specifically, she said:
the quality of the fitting was poor with frayed and uneven edges;
the fitters didnt use Personal Protective Equipment, (PPE) and wouldnt use the PPE 
that Mrs E offered them;
one of the fitters had cut his hand on a previous job, and when he left Mrs E found 
stains of blood and bloody rags that he had left;
a glue cannister that the fitters were using had exploded leaving glue on her walls 
and skirting board; and
the fitters emptied rubbish from the fitting into her recycling bin, and left sharp blades 
and other rubbish from the fitting on her driveway.
HCG offered to revisit and carry out corrective work. Mrs E declined this offer as she didnt 
want the fitter back in her house. She said she would deal with rectification herself. HCG 
acknowledged its poor service and offered to refund the full fitting fee of £65, and apply this 
to Mrs Es outstanding balance. Mrs E didnt accept this offer and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think HCGs 
offer to refund the £65 fitting fee fully recognised the effect HCGs poor service had on     
Mrs E, including that:
she had been charged for the incorrect disposal of rubbish left behind by the fitters, 
which they had put in her recycling bin;
the blades and bloody rags left behind posed a health and safety risk to Mrs E and 
her family; and
she had to spend time and money removing the glue from her walls and floors.
The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Mrs E to say she didnt want the same 
fitter to come back and rectify the work. In addition to refunding the £65 fitting fee, she 
thought HCG should pay Mrs E a further £150 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her.
Mrs E accepted the investigators recommendation. HCG responded to say, in summary, 
that:
Mrs E had signed off the work as satisfactory on the day in spite of the issues that 
had occurred;
she initially said she would accept the £65 refund offered;
it hadnt seen any evidence Mrs E had been charged in respect of the disposal of the 
rubbish;
it didnt accept Mrs E had suffered distress; and
it had offered corrective work. It didnt say this would be by the original fitter and 
would have offered an alternative fitter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether or not Mrs E signed an acceptance form at the time of the fitting, or was originally 
minded to accept the £65 offered, I think theres no doubt that the way the fitting was carried 
out was unacceptable, and left Mrs E understandably upset.
I think it was understandable that she wouldnt want HCG to come back to carry out remedial 
work, whether or not it was by the same fitter. Im satisfied she had to spend some time and 
money to deal with the damage caused by the spilt glue. I also accept Mrs Es statement that 
she was fined for the rubbish the fitter left in her recycling bin.
So I conclude its fair and reasonable that HCG should compensate Mrs E by refunding the 
£65 fitting fee, and paying her a further £150, as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
  
Putting things right
To put things right, I think HCG should pay Mrs E £150 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her, in addition to refunding the £65 fitting fee.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Happy Customers Group Ltd to refund 
the £65 fitting fee to Mrs E, and to pay her a further £150, as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman