DRN-3340456
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain that a car they acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd was misrepresented to them by the supplying dealer.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs J wanted to acquire a used car. They had certain criteria that 
they wanted any potential car to match and which was important to them. This included that 
it should have a low mileage and no more than two previous owners.
Mr J saw an advert for a suitable car, and he spoke with the dealership over the telephone 
as it was some distance from his home. The dealership said the car was around five years 
old, had had two previous registered keepers and a mileage of around 36,000. Mr J says he 
was very clear that if the car had had more than two previous registered keepers it wouldnt 
be suitable for them.
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs J entered into a hire purchase agreement for 24 months with 
Blue Motor for the car. The car cost £13,800 and Mr and Mrs J paid a deposit of £3,800 
leaving the remaining £10,000 to be paid via the credit agreement. The monthly payments 
under the agreement were £467.41.
Mr and Mrs J arranged for the car to be collected and delivered to them by a third-party 
company. The fee for this was £316 and paid for by them.
The car was delivered with its paperwork. A couple of days later Mr and Mrs J received the 
V5 (logbook). This document showed there had been three previous registered keepers and 
not two. Mr J verified this information with DVLA who confirmed with him that he was the 
fourth registered keeper for the car.
Mr J complained to the supplying dealer, but they didnt accept there had been a 
misrepresentation. Mr J then complained to Blue Motor and asked to return the car and 
cancel the agreement because it had been misrepresented to him.
Blue Motor didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. It said the information provided to Mr and 
Mrs J had been correct as to the number of previous registered keepers. Blue Motor said 
there had been two previous registered keepers because the current keeper wouldnt show 
on the V5. And that it was only after the car had been sold to a new owner that the current 
keeper would then be recorded as a previous keeper on the V5. 
Blue Motor said that the registered keepers would include the current owner of the vehicle 
but as only the previous keepers had been advertised by the dealership, it wasnt obliged to 
include the current registered keeper when it showed there had been two previous keepers.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the view taken by Blue Motor and complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that their complaint should be upheld. He said that the way 
the previous registered keepers had been counted was unfair and misleading. Our 
investigator said he was satisfied that the car had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs J and 
that this false statement had induced them to purchase the car.
Our investigator said it would be fair for the agreement with Mr and Mrs J to be cancelled 
and the car collected. He also said that Blue Motor should refund all the monthly payments 
made under the agreement since the car had hardly been used together with the deposit 
paid by Mr and Mrs J. Finally, our investigator said the delivery cost of £316 should be 
reimbursed to Mr and Mrs J.
Mr and Mrs J agreed with our investigators view, but Blue Motor disagreed. It said that the 
way the previous registered keepers had been counted was correct. Blue Motor also said 
that refunding the delivery cost would be unfair since the supplying dealer had always been 
clear it wouldnt undertake any distance deliveries. It had been Mr and Mrs Js decision to 
employ a third-party company to undertake this role.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975 a credit provider, here thats Blue Motor, 
can be held responsible for representations made about the car and credit agreement in pre-
contract negotiations. For me to be satisfied that a misrepresentation has taken place I 
would need evidence that a false statement of fact had been made about the car and that 
this statement induced Mr and Mrs J to enter into the contract.
It isnt disputed that Mr and Mrs J were informed the car had two previous registered 
keepers by the dealership. Ive also seen this is the information supplied in the advert for the 
car. Blue Motor says this information is correct because at the time Mr and Mrs J were 
making their enquiries there were two previous registered keepers and one current 
registered keeper for the car. It said Mr and Mrs J had asked about previous registered 
keepers and had been provided with accurate information.
While I appreciate the point Blue Motor is making is technically correct if accepting there is a 
difference between previous registered keepers and previous owners, I think the purpose of 
Mr and Mrs Js question was clear. It was important to them that any car they acquired 
hadnt had more than two previous owners. And I think its reasonable to consider that when 
a dealership is being asked about previous registered keepers, they are being asked how 
many owners a vehicle has had including any current owner. I dont think consumers would 
expect to have add one to any number provided to them in order to work out the total 
number of registered keepers any car had. 
Looking at any guidance that has been produced, Ive seen that in 2010 The Office of Fair 
Trading issued Guidance for second hand car dealers, Compliance with the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 and the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (as 
amended). This sets out that it would be an unfair practice, and breach of the CPRs to 
create a misleading impression about the previous usage of a vehicle. Im satisfied on the 
evidence Ive seen that this is what has happened here. Mr and Mrs J were given the 
impression this car had two previous owners when it was actually three. This was 
misleading. 
Having decided that a false statement had been made I also need to be satisfied that it was 
this statement that induced Mr and Mrs J to enter into a contract to purchase the car. Ive 
seen that the number of prior owners was an important consideration for them. And how important a factor is will be a subjective matter, it therefore doesnt matter if someone else 
wouldnt have given much weight to the number of owners a car may have had when 
deciding whether it suited their needs.
Ive seen that as soon as Mr and Mrs J were aware of the number of previous owners, they 
raised their complaint and asked about returning the car and cancelling the agreement. Ive 
also seen that they have taken the decision not to use the car which has caused them some 
inconvenience. 
I think Mr and Mrs J have been consistent about explaining the importance of the number of 
previous owners and that had they known the truth they wouldnt have taken this car. They 
have explained that they had located an alternative car but decided to take this one instead 
based on the information that was given to them about it. I think their decision would have 
been different had their question about previous registered keepers been answered in a way 
that hadnt been a misrepresentation of the facts.
So, taking this all into account Im satisfied that the misleading statement about the number 
of owners the car had induced Mr and Mrs J to agree to enter into the credit agreement in 
order to purchase it. Blue Motor are therefore liable under section 56 for this 
misrepresentation and for putting this right.
Blue Motor has queried reimbursing the delivery cost to Mr and Mrs J as this was their 
choice to arrange. I accept the dealership didnt provide delivery due to the distance involved 
but I think its fair to consider this as a consequential loss. Mr and Mrs J had to make 
arrangements to get the car they thought they had wanted to their home, they made 
arrangements for this to be undertaken that incurred a fee. However, it subsequently turned 
out that the car had been misrepresented to them and wasnt what they wanted. If they had 
known about the number of previous owners before entering into the credit agreement and 
agreeing to buy it  then they wouldnt have needed to arrange for its delivery and incurred  
that cost. I think that its fair they are repaid this sum.
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Blue Motor to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr J and Mrs J.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse all payments made by Mr J and Mrs J under the agreement as the car 
has only been used to drive around 50 miles. Yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple 
to be added to that figure from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse to Mr J and Mrs J their deposit of £3,800 together with yearly interest at 
the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse to Mr J and Mrs J the delivery cost of £316 together with yearly interest at 
the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any information about this hire purchase agreement from Mr Js and Mrs Js 
credit file. My final decision
As set out above Im upholding Mr Js and Mrs Js complaint. Im asking Blue Motor Finance 
Ltd to do the following:
 Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr J and Mrs J.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse all payments made by Mr J and Mrs J under the agreement as the car 
has only been used to drive around 50 miles. Yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple 
to be added to that figure from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse to Mr J and Mrs J their deposit of £3,800 together with yearly interest at 
the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse to Mr J and Mrs J the delivery cost of £316 together with yearly interest at 
the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any information about this hire purchase agreement from Mr Js and Mrs Js 
credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman