DRN-2631119
The complaint
A business, that Ill refer to as M, complain that American International Group UK Limited 
trading as AIG UK  declined their claim for business interruption. Mr H brings the complaint 
on Ms behalf. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on M as it was required to close.
M held a business insurance policy with AIG. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But AIG declined it. It said the policy covered M for business interruption 
arising from damage to trade contents. And that Ms claim didnt meet the definition of 
damage under the policy, but even if it did the policy contained an exclusion in relation to 
damage caused by gradual deterioration of stock which applied here.  
AIG also said there was no cover for the expiry of Ms stock in the absence of certain issues 
with the refrigeration unit. 
Mr H felt Ms economic losses arising out of the deterioration of Ms stock met the definition 
of damage set out within the policy and didnt fall within the exclusions quoted by AIG. In 
particular, Mr H said the stock became unusable due to the passage of time and that it had 
to be disposed of because it couldnt be used by its use by date. He also felt the cause of the 
stock expiring was the Government imposed closure of M and not general deterioration.  
Our investigator thought that overall, the policy terms had been applied fairly. Mr H didnt 
agree, so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Its evident the Government restrictions imposed on M had a considerable financial impact.
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether AIG
should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the 
elements of cover most relevant to Ms circumstances below. The burden of proof initially 
rests with M to show, on balance, theyve suffered a loss their policy covers.
Trade Contents 
Ms policy indemnifies M against Damage to Trade Contents at the Premises. 
Trade Contents include stock in trade being the property of M or for which M is responsible. 
This includes the items M is claiming for. 
Damage is defined as Loss of, Destruction of or Damage to. And the policy contains the 
following exclusion which AIG have relied on when rejecting Ms claim:
The Insurer will not be liable under (the Trade Contents) Section for Damage caused 
by inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear
AIG have said that regardless of the cause, the food and wet stock that M is claiming for 
cant be said to have been damaged, as defined by the policy, because it wasnt sold by its 
sell by date or because M was closed due to Government imposed lockdown. And even if 
the claim did meet the definition of Damage it would be excluded due the stock being 
damaged as a result of gradual deterioration.
I dont need to determine whether the claim M is making amounts to Damage as defined by 
the policy. If it doesnt then the claim wouldnt be one that was covered because, simply put, 
the policy wouldnt provide cover for it. The only issue I need to determine is whether the 
exclusion AIG has relied upon is fair in the circumstances. 
When considering this issue, Ive looked carefully at relevant case law. In particular Ive 
considered the judgment in TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710. 
The claimants in that case made an argument that the deterioration of their stock constituted 
damage to property, and that this resulted in the interruption of their business. One of the 
Judges conclusions was that what was alleged to have happened to the stock wasnt 
accidental, as the natural process of decay or deterioration isnt accidental. Rather, it was 
caused by inherent vice and / or gradual deterioration, both of which were excluded under 
the relevant section of the policy in question.
Ms policy also contains an exclusion for gradual deterioration and inherent vice. As in the 
case Ive described, I think what is alleged to have happened to the stock is something that 
was caused by gradual deterioration or in the alternative, inherent vice. In that case inherent 
vice was taken to mean the items had inherent characteristics that would affect them 
negatively. I think that applies to Ms stock as its properties meant it would become 
perishable without outside influence, purely by the expiry of its use by date. 
I note that Mr H says M would have used the food and wet stock before their expiry dates in 
the usual course of business, if it hadnt been for its Government-imposed closure. I dont 
doubt that, but the reason M couldnt use the stock when the restrictions were lifted was 
because it had passed its expiry date. This was due to gradual deterioration and/or inherent 
vice during the closure period so I dont think this makes any difference to Ms complaint. I 
also dont agree with Mr H that the stock becoming unusable due to the passage of time 
means it has not in itself gradually deteriorated or that it stopped being usable due to 
inherent vice. Overall and for these reasons I think that any claim that might be successful 
under the Trade Contents section of the policy would be excluded in any event. 
When reaching this conclusion, I can assure Mr H Ive taken into account what hes said 
about Ms complaint being different from TKC London Ltds claim. Whilst that might be the 
case, the exclusion referred to by the Judge is relevant and leads me to the same conclusion 
on this issue.
Refrigerated Stock
I understand that some of the claim made by M relates to refrigerated stock. Because of that 
Ive also given thought to the policy terms in relation to that.
The policy covers:Damage to all Refrigerated Stock contained in any Appliance caused by
1.0.1 change in temperature resulting from
mechanical or electrical breakdown of the Appliance
accidental failure of the public electricity supply to the point of transfer to the Premises
1.0.2accidental leakage of refrigerant or refrigerant fumes.
Nothing in the circumstances of Ms claim fall within these terms. The refrigerated stock 
deteriorated because it went past its use by date and not due to some problem with the 
physical refrigeration of it set out more specifically in the terms above. Because of this, I 
cant fairly say AIG were wrong to turn down Ms claim under this section of cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms claim against American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG 
UK.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H on behalf of 
M to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman