DRN-4226766
The complaint
Mr F complains that when he contacted National Westminster Bank Plc for short term 
support with his mortgage, the only options NatWest would offer him, would involve a 
negative mark on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr F said he contacted NatWest in early 2023, when he was returning to work after a period 
of sickness absence. Mr F said he was able to return to work, and he didnt anticipate any 
longer term problems with paying his mortgage, but he said that in the short term, his return 
to work had been unfortunately timed, because hed missed that months salary payment 
date. Mr F said hed used up his savings keeping up his mortgage payments during his 
absence, and he would struggle to make that months payment. He wanted NatWest to help.
Mr F was very upset to find out that the only help NatWest would offer, would impact his 
credit file. He said he spent nearly an hour on the phone, but NatWest wouldnt help. And it 
put him through to the team dealing with arrears, although Mr F said quite specifically he 
didnt want that. 
NatWest said it sympathised with the situation Mr F was in, and appreciated that hed 
contacted it in advance of the payment, but it said theres no facility for payment holidays on 
Mr Fs mortgage. The mortgage he has requires payments to be made every month. 
NatWest wasnt able to just agree to Mr F skipping or deferring a monthly mortgage 
payment. 
NatWest said it was sorry Mr F had been on the phone for around 40 minutes, and had been 
transferred around different departments. It paid £50 to apologise for that. 
NatWest confirmed Mr F did then make his monthly payment, so no negative information 
had been reported to credit reference agencies.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said hed checked, and 
there wasnt a payment holiday feature on Mr Fs mortgage. The payment holiday hed taken 
during the pandemic was a one-off arrangement that NatWest was required to provide by the 
regulator. If Mr F missed a payment, NatWest had to tell credit reference agencies that, and 
if he entered into a payment plan, that would still be visible on his credit file. 
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong, in telling Mr F that the 
options it could offer would have an impact on his credit file. And he thought the payment 
NatWest made, to make up for the length of time that Mr F spent on the phone, was fair.
Mr F didnt agree. He said he didnt feel his side of the story had been taken into 
consideration by the investigator. And he said wed got some things wrong, because he 
didnt want his monthly payment deferred until the next month, he wanted it deferred until the 
end of the mortgage. Mr F said that in the circumstances he was in, of trying to return to 
work, NatWest should have helped. But all it would offer him was options which would have 
shown on his credit file, and he didnt want that. 
Mr F wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. Im sorry to 
have to tell Mr F that I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
I understand Mr F was returning to work after a period of absence, as fortunately, he has 
now recovered. Mr F said hed used up his savings covering his mortgage and he wasnt 
going to be paid until the next month. He complains that when he contacted NatWest to ask 
for support, it wouldnt help.
I understand theres been some confusion about the sort of help Mr F wanted. He contacted 
our service after our investigator completed his view, to say that he hadnt asked NatWest to 
defer his payment to the next month, hed asked it instead to defer the payment to the end of 
the mortgage. But I have listened to a call recording from the time, and I can hear that the 
first option Mr F suggested was that NatWest should defer that months payment until 
halfway through the next month, when he expected to be paid. He then also suggested 
NatWest could change his payment date, or it could defer the payment, as a one month 
payment holiday, until the end of the mortgage itself. 
I understand NatWest said it couldnt simply offer Mr F these options. The only options it 
could offer him, would mean going through an income and expenditure assessment, and 
would have some impact on his credit file. 
Mr F didnt want to take up those options. He said his credit file has always been clear, and 
he didnt want to do anything that would damage his credit rating.
Ive seen the terms of Mr Fs mortgage, and I havent been able to see that he has any 
flexibility in that mortgage. I know that Mr F had previously made overpayments, and hed 
previously taken a payment holiday during the pandemic period (under arrangements that 
our investigator has explained NatWest was required to provide at the time). But NatWest 
still didnt have a way under the agreement it had made with Mr F, to waive one of his 
monthly payments. 
If theres nothing in Mr Fs mortgage agreement which allows Mr F to miss a payment, then I 
would expect any option to skip or defer a monthly payment which NatWest could offer Mr F, 
would be reported onto his credit file. Mr F has explained why he wanted to avoid that, and I 
do understand why he wouldnt want this, but if hes missed all of a contractual monthly 
payment, other than under a provision of his mortgage contract or the special arrangements 
that were put in place for the pandemic, then I would expect that to be reported to the credit 
reference agencies. 
NatWest is, as it said, under an obligation to tell credit reference agencies how its customers 
are managing their accounts. Thats the agreement it has with those agencies, that it will 
provide honest and accurate information, and it means that in turn NatWest can rely on the 
information that other lenders provide, as an accurate assessment of how other lending is being managed. So if a payment is missed, NatWest will record that. It can also record on a 
credit file when its customers have contacted it to enter into a payment arrangement (so 
have been proactive, and are addressing the issue) but the underlying information, that the 
full payment wasnt made, would still be visible to future lenders. 
Mr F did then manage to make his payment for the relevant month. I understand that would 
have been difficult for him. But unfortunately, I dont think there was an alternative informal 
solution to his problem, with no impact at all on his credit file, which I could fairly and 
reasonably have expected NatWest to offer, at the time. 
I also appreciate that Mr F was also on the phone to NatWest for some time, but I think the 
payment it has made of £50 does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to that part of Mr 
Fs complaint.
I know that Mr F will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman