DRN-2665862
The complaint
Mr R is complaining Extracover Limited wouldnt downgrade his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy, despite previously saying it would do so.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr R took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy through Extracover  a 
broker  to enable him to work as a taxi driver. Due to the impact of Covid-19 Mr R was 
unable to work and in June 2020 he contacted Extracover to ask for assistance and to see if 
he could reduce his payments. Extracover responded by email and said he could downgrade 
his insurance policy to a social, domestic and pleasure policy and he would receive a refund 
of his premium.
In July 2020 Mr R contacted Extracover again to take up the offer but it said the offer was no 
longer available. Mr R didnt think that was fair and he said he hadnt worked since 
March 2020. And he thinks Extracover should have honoured the offer. Extracover said it 
accepted it should have told Mr R the offer was time limited. So it offered to refund £250. 
Mr R didnt accept this and thought it should refund £1,200.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said the offer came from the insurer  not 
Extracover. She said the downgrade offers were being offered during the lockdown period in 
line with regulator guidelines. She said Extracover could have given Mr R a deadline to 
respond, but it ultimately took him nearly a month to accept the offer at which point lockdown 
restrictions had been removed and the policy downgrades were no longer available.
The investigator said Extracover werent liable for the actions of the insurer. And she said 
Mr R may want to refer his complaint to the insurer if he was unhappy the downgrade offer 
was withdrawn.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said Extracover made him the refund offer, 
so it should be bound by it. 
As Mr R didnt accept the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Extracovers offer to refund £250 is more than fair and Ill now explain why. 
I should first explain I can only consider the actions of Extracover in this case. Extracover 
were acting as a broker. As a broker, Extracover was responsible for the administration of 
the insurance policy. It wasnt the insurer and it was the insurer who was responsible for the 
performance of the policy  including setting the annual premium and agreeing any 
amendments to it (e.g. downgrading it).
Mr R contacted Extracover to ask for assistance and it responded to explain the offer to 
downgrade the policy. As I said, this offer was being made by the insurer, not Extracover. I 
think it treated Mr R fairly in making this offer. Extracover wouldnt have known when this 
offer would be withdrawn. So I dont think it treated Mr R unfairly in not setting a deadline. 
Ultimately Mr R took nearly a month to respond to accept the offer.
I dont dispute Mr R says he was taking the time to consider the offer. But ultimately, as 
lockdown restrictions had been removed, the insurer had made the decision to not offer 
downgrades to the insurance policies anymore. This isnt something Extracover was 
responsible for and Mr R will need to raise this with his insurer.
Mr R has also said he didnt work from the start of the policy so doesnt think he should be 
required to pay anything for the policy. But this is also something he would need to raise with 
the insurer as its not Extracovers responsibility to refund any of the annual premium.
I appreciate Mr R feels the situation is unfair and Extracover should be bound by its offer. 
But, as I said, it wasnt Extracovers offer. But, irrespective of this, I dont think it was a 
binding offer. It was simply something that was available to Mr R at the time. Ultimately, I 
dont think Extracover has treated Mr R unfairly. So I think it was more that fair for it to offer 
to refund £250 of the annual premium.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think Extracover Limiteds offer to refund £250 of the 
annual premium was fair in all the circumstances. Mr R should contact Extracover Limited if 
he wishes to accept that offer. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman