DRN-2292565
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Zurich Assurance Limited mis-sold them a whole of life policy. 
They say they didnt need the policy because they werent financially dependent on each 
other and had pensions. Mr and Mrs B also said the fact they surrendered the policy shows 
they didnt want whole of life cover. They also say the policy wasnt properly explained to 
them, nor were they told it was reviewable. 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint has been brought to us by their representative. But for ease of 
reference, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs B throughout this decision. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. He felt the policy was suitable for the couples needs at the time, and that theyd 
agreed to the advisers recommendation. Our investigator also didnt accept that Mr and 
Mrs Bs decision to surrender the policy was evidence the policy was mis-sold. And that the 
couple had been provided with documentation about how the policy worked, including the 
review process. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept what our investigator said and have asked for an Ombudsmans 
review.  They felt more products shouldve been discussed with them so they could make an 
informed decision. And that it wasnt reasonable just to provide documentation about the 
reviews  saying this shouldve been properly explained to them. Mr and Mrs B also said 
there wasnt enough evidence to show the advisers recommendation was suitable for their 
needs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mr B feel strongly about this complaint, so Im sure my 
decision will come as a disappointment to them. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
A recommendation a business makes to a customer about a policy must be suitable for their 
needs and circumstances at that time. Its often the case that with the benefit of hindsight, a 
product sold some time ago might not appear to have been suitable. But when looking at 
cases like this, I must decide from the evidence available at the point of sale, together with 
anything else provided by either party, about the suitability of the product sold. 
The whole of life policy was sold to Mr and Mrs B in 1993. Whilst I dont know exactly what 
was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and the adviser, I do have documents from the point 
of sale, including the fact find. 
I can see from the fact find that different investment options were discussed during a 
meeting in April 1993. It was also noted that Mr and Mrs B wanted to provide protection for 
their family. They have two children. During a follow up meeting in July 1993 its recorded 
that Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances were the same. But its specifically noted that the couple 
felt their current life cover was insufficient and they wanted a policy that had a surrender 
value. After discussing various products, including term assurance, the whole of life policy 
was recommended. Mr and Mrs B agreed to the advisers recommendation and completed 
the necessary application form.  So, I think the evidence we have does show Mr and Mrs Bs 
needs were reviewed and other products were considered before the whole of life policy was 
recommended and agreed to. 
Mr and Mrs B were also concerned about how much the adviser told them about the policy. I 
agree that the specifics of the policy shouldve been explained to Mr and Mrs B and any 
questions they had answered. But I cant say for certain exactly what was discussed or how 
much detail the adviser went into. What I can see is that the documentation provided to 
Mr and Mrs B clearly explained how the policy worked and how it was reviewable. If Mr and 
Mrs B werent happy with the policy terms, they didnt have to go ahead with the sale. 
Based on the available documentary evidence, the advisers recommendation for a whole of 
life policy doesnt seem unreasonable to me. It met Mr and Mrs Bs identified needs in terms 
of protection for their children, whilst having an investment element which generated a 
surrender value. Im also satisfied Mr and Mrs B were provided with enough information 
about the policy to make an informed decision as to whether to proceed with the sale. 
So, I dont think Zurich has acted unreasonably here, and wont be asking it to take any 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman