DRN-3970118
The complaint
Ms H complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited  trading as Argos Card 
(Argos) defaulted her credit card.
What happened
Ms H had a credit card from Argos with a limit of £1,200. The statement dated 22 July 2022 
showed a balance of £1,307.72. The account was in arrears and the statement said to pay 
£151.15 immediately. 
The last payment Ms H made was on 8 May 2022 (£26.11  the minimum payment). The 
next payment made was on 1 October 2022  when a direct debit commenced and took the 
minimum payment of £112.65.
Ms H called Argos on 4 August 2022 to discuss her account. A direct debit was set up to 
take minimum payments with effect from 1 October 2022. A letter was sent to Ms H dated 4 
August 2022.
On 4 September 2022, Argos sent Ms H a Notice of Default. The balance was £1,316.22 
and the arrears were then £201.30  this needed to be paid by 27 September 2022. The 
default was registered on 30 September 2022.
Ms H complained. She said she was confused by the call on 4 August 2022. She didnt 
realise she needed to make a manual payment before the direct debit came into operation. 
She said the default therefore wasnt fair and should be removed. She would like to settle 
the account and use the card again.
Argos said that when Ms H called Argos on 4 August 2022, she said she was not in financial 
difficulty and could make a payment of £151.15 at the end of August and would continue to 
pay in until the direct debit started. Argos said they explained that Ms H should contact them 
if she could not afford the payment.
Argos said Ms H didnt make the payment, nor did she contact Argos. A default notice was 
issued on 2 September 2022 (sic). That asked for payment of £201.30 by 27 September 
2022. Ms H didnt make any payment or contact Argos again, and so the default was 
registered. 
Ms H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said that if £151.15 
had been paid in by the end of August 2022, the default wouldve been avoided. He said it 
was made clear to Ms H what needed to happen, and she had been given clear 
communications about her account. Argos could accept payments to the account in several 
ways and Ms H had received the Notice of Default, which set things out.
Ms H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. So  it has come to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Hs complaint is that she didnt understand what was said when she called 
Argos on 4 August 2022. 
I asked Argos for a recording of the call, but unfortunately, they couldnt provide it. But I 
reviewed the notes made on Ms Hs account which show what was discussed and agreed. 
The notes are quite detailed. They say Ms H advised she wasnt in financial difficulty and 
was up to date with priority bills. This is important as if Ms H had been in financial difficulty, 
then Argos wouldve have been expected to treat her as such.
Because she wasnt going to get paid until the end of the month, Argos agreed to change 
her payment date to 1st monthly. Ms H said she could afford to pay off the arrears. Argos 
refunded a late payment fee of £12 and interest of £41.48. A direct debit was set up for 
minimum payments. So  the actions Argos took seem to me to have been reasonable 
things to do; and the notes of the call appear to show Ms H was told clearly about what was 
to happen. 
I then reviewed what Ms H was told about the direct debit  as I wondered if she thought it 
would cover the total payments needed, including the arrears. Argos sent to me the direct 
debit script which was read out to Ms H. This included Your direct debit will collect the 
minimum payment amount shown on your statement each month.So, feel free to repay as 
much as you want in addition to your minimum payment Direct Debit. So  I think it was 
clear that the direct debit would only take the minimum amount needed from Ms Hs bank 
account, and not the arrears.
Ms H was sent a letter when the direct debit was set up. I reviewed this. It said we need 
you to continue making any required monthly payments through other means until your first 
Direct Debit payment is collected. Your monthly Argos Card statement will tell you when this 
will be. So  the letter said Ms H needed to pay in manually until the direct debit started. I 
can see on Ms Hs statement dated 3 September 2022  the next minimum payment was 
due on 1 October 2022 - £112.65, and this was then taken by direct debit on that date.
I can see that Ms H was sent a Notice of Default on 4 September 2022. I reviewed this. It 
said the arrears were then £201.30 and it said you must pay the total arrears of £201.30 
before 27 SEPTEMBER 2022. You can make a payment by calling us on XXXX. It went on 
to say Argos may Register a default with credit reference agencies.
The cover letter with the Notice also explained A Default Notice applies to debts regulated 
by the Consumer Credit Act. It is a notice from us setting out that if you don't bring your 
account up to date within a certain time, we may terminate our agreement with you. Please 
read this notice very carefully. It will tell you the amount you need to pay and the date this 
payment must be made by. It will also tell you about the further action we may take.
The default goes on your credit file and stays there for six years. This affects your ability to 
get things like mortgages, loans, credit cards and mobile phone contracts. Any applications 
for these are likely to be declined.
Therefore, I think the Notice of Default was sufficiently clear.
Unfortunately, Ms H didnt make the payment, nor did she contact Argos about the letter  I 
think its reasonable for me to say she couldve done so to discuss her account. I can also see that Argos tried to call her on 5 September 2022, but there was no reply. The notes on 
Ms Hs account show a voice mail was left on Ms Hs phone.
The next contact from Ms H was on 23 November 2022  when she called about the default 
on her account. So, unfortunately, Ms H didnt get in touch with Argos between the Notice of 
Default on 4 September 2022 and 23 November 2022.
I was sorry to hear of the default thats been registered on Ms Hs credit file. But, looking at 
the overall communications between Argos and Ms H, Im satisfied that Ms H was given 
sufficient information about her account, what she needed to do to make payments and how 
to bring her account up to date. 
Therefore, Im not asking Argos to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman