DRN-2019525
The complaint
Ms W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was sold on the 
phone. It gave Ms W protection against accident, sickness and unemployment and some life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms W said - that she wasnt told PPI was being added 
to her account. There is no call recording available, but this isnt surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. Capital One has however provided the 
call script its adviser would have followed. This instructs the adviser to gain consent 
from the customer before proceeding to add PPI. And Ive found no evidence to suggest 
the standard sales process wasnt followed here. 
So, overall, I think its most likely Capital One made Ms W aware she had a choice 
about PPI and she agreed to take it out. I can understand she might not remember this 
given how long ago the sale was. 
Ms Ws representative says as the PPI was sold on the phone it must have been 
discussed, but that doesnt mean Capital One recommended the cover to Ms W. Ive 
found no evidence it considered her circumstances at the point of sale and gave advice. 
So I dont think the bank recommended the PPI to Ms W - this means it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. It was up to Ms W to decide if she wanted PPI bearing in 
mind the other ways she had to make her repayments if she wasnt working. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, it seems she wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. Ms W says she was entitled to three months sick pay but the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. So based on her 
circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Ms W wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she would 
still have taken out the policy.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms W about that. Because Capital One didnt tell
Ms W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One 
(Europe) plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Ms W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman