DRN-4005692
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc blocked and closed his account. He complains that he 
has been discriminated against by TSB
What happened
Mr M opened a current account with TSB in 2020, although it wasnt used until it received a 
payment in July 2021. Two more payments were subsequently received, which Mr M says 
were from his mother.
In August 2021 TSB started a review of Mr Ms account after he attempted to make a 
payment out. The bank asked Mr M to provide some identification. He attempted to resolve 
this over the phone but had to go into branch. However, the funds still werent released and 
instead TSB fully blocked the account.
Mr M raised a complaint with TSB, saying he felt he had been racially profiled, as his 
account had not been blocked fully until he went into branch. He said nobody had been able 
to tell him why his accounts had been blocked and was unhappy with the service provided.
TSB accepted there were some areas theyd made mistakes, but said they were entitled to 
carry out security checks. TSB said Mr Ms race had not played a part in their decision to 
block his account. But they apologised for how a call which had discussed this issue had 
been handled, saying it could have been more professional. They said their fraud team 
would consider any further information Mr M wanted to provide in relation to his entitlement 
to the funds in the account.
TSB later released the funds from Mr Ms account. They initially sent a cheque for an 
amount, but in an incorrect name. They later sent the balance as a faster payment.
Mr M was unhappy with this response, so complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and asked further questions of TSB. The bank 
offered to pay Mr M 8% simple interest on the balance returned to Mr M because of the 
delay caused by the incorrect name. They also offered Mr M £100 to reflect the delay in 
returning the funds.
The investigator felt that TSB should go further. They said TSB have legal and regulatory 
obligations to meet, which means that they can review customers accounts and block any 
transaction while they do so. They said they werent obligated to explain their reasoning for
doing this, and that TSB had been reasonable in doing so. TSB had delayed returning 
£4,999 to Mr M, and so agreed they should pay 8% simple interest on this amount.
The investigator agreed that TSBs customer service hadnt been acceptable for Mr M. But 
they said based on the evidence theyd seen the blocks on Mr Ms account werent a result 
of his race, or another discriminatory reason. They couldnt listen to the call with TSB but 
based on the investigation notes at the time they felt it had been handled inappropriately.
Overall, they felt TSB should pay Mr M £150 compensation for the upset caused. TSB 
accepted this as an outcome. Mr M disagreed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. On reviewing 
the evidence, I issued a provisional decision, which said:
Mr M feels very strongly that he has been discriminated against by TSB. The key piece of 
legislation that deals with discrimination in the UK is the Equality Act 2010. But only the 
courts can decide whether the Equality Act has been breached. So, this isnt a finding I will 
be making for Mr M. My role here is to decide this complaint based on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable. This will take in to account any relevant legislation and regulations, 
industry standard and what I consider to be good practice.
The investigator has already outlined that financial businesses, like TSB, have certain legal 
and regulatory obligations to meet when managing accounts. This is an ongoing 
commitment for both new and existing accounts. And this can mean that they need to restrict 
an account while its under review.
Having reviewed the information supplied by TSB, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
TSB to review Mr Ms account, and to restrict access to the account while they did so. They 
can block the account while its under review and can ask Mr M to supply further information 
as to the source of his funds. This is outlined in the account terms.
I appreciate Mr M would like to know more about the reasoning behind the review and blocks 
placed on his account. TSB are under no obligation to tell Mr M why his account was under 
review and have declined to do so. I cant say this in unreasonable. But I would like to 
assure Mr M that after reviewing the evidence supplied, Im satisfied his account wasnt 
placed under review, or blocked, because of any discriminatory reasons. Im satisfied the 
decision to review Mr Ms account was reasonable.
Mr M provided information to TSB when requested  hes sent us the response he received 
by email confirming this. I can see TSB carried out their review within a reasonable time. 
They took the decision to close the account, which Im satisfied they did so in line with the 
terms of the account. And after receiving the relevant information TSB released the blocked 
funds to Mr M. I cant say theyve done anything unreasonable in this.
However, there was a delay in returning a portion of Mr Ms funds to him  £4,999 was taken 
from the account on 2 September 2021, but not returned to Mr M until 11 November 2021. 
Its reasonable for TSB to pay 8% simple interest on this amount between these dates, to 
reflect that Mr M would not have had use of the funds he was entitled to. 
In terms of the service Mr M received, my understanding is that Mr M was referred to branch 
as the initial call with TSB did not go well, and he couldnt be identified over the phone. I 
cant know for certain what happened in the branch. I accept what Mr M has said about how 
he felt he was treated, especially as from his perspective the situation had changed from an 
issue with a payment to finding out his account had been blocked.
This is where I can see how he felt his appearance or race had played a factor in the 
decision to block his accounts  although on considering the information available, Im 
satisfied with TSBs reasoning for blocking the account. Im also mindful there is often limited 
information bank staff can give when accounts are under review. But I accept it would be 
frustrating for him not to get any answers, and for him to have no new information provided.
TSB havent been able to provide a copy of the call Mr M had with their fraud department. 
But they have accepted the call was not handled well. I have been provided with the banks 
investigation notes which were taken at the time of the phone call. These largely match 
Mr Ms description of what was said, so Im inclined to accept these as accurate. These 
notes make it very clear the call was not handled well and was embarrassing for the bank, and the call handler argues with Mr M without offering any clear explanation of what 
happened.
In the notes of the call its noted Mr M asked the call handler if the blocking of his account 
was a colour thing, and the response from TSB was noted as using his terminology how 
would I know what colour you are when Im speaking on the phone. I think this is an attempt 
to explain that TSB havent blocked his account for this reason. But given the context of not 
being given any reason for his account being blocked Im satisfied this isnt the most 
appropriate response. Its dismissive of a genuine concern. TSB have acknowledged this 
was unprofessional, and I think Mr M can feel let down by the way it was handled. 
Ive also noted the delay to returning the funds to Mr M, based on the cheque being issued 
with incorrect details. This will have only increased the frustration to him.
Overall, Im minded that TSB should pay Mr M some compensation for the way they handled 
his account. Ive taken into account that the underlying issue of TSB blocking then closing 
the account was reasonable. But there were failings of TSBs customer service in not 
responding to Mr Ms concerns about discrimination appropriately and delaying the return of 
his funds.
Considering all this carefully, Im not satisfied that the £100 offered by TSB is a fair reflection 
of the impact on Mr M. Currently, Im minded that £250 would be an appropriate amount of 
compensation.
TSB accepted the provisional decision. Mr M said he had nothing further to add. It turns to 
me now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new evidence being submitted, Im satisfied with the 
conclusions reached in the provisional decision. Im still minded that TSB should resolve the 
complaint as directed in the provisional decision.
Mr M has asked for all the information TSB hold on him  this is a query hell have to direct 
towards TSB directly. They will be able to assist him making a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and TSB Bank plc must:
Pay Mr M 8% simple interest on the balance of £4,999 between 2 September 2021 
and 11 November 2021. If TSB feels they were required by HM Revenue & 
Customers to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it 
taken off and provide him a tax deduction certificate if he requests it.
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
customer service.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman