DRN-2349935
The complaint
Mr P complains that a hire purchase agreement for a car via MotoNovo Finance Limited was 
mishandled, leading to him suffering financial loss and inconvenience.     
What happened
In November 2019, Mr P arranged to purchase a car via a three-year hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. The supplying dealer said it would arrange for the car to be taxed 
and would sort the V5 formalities for Mr P. Mr P took the car after the supplying dealer 
confirmed it had been taxed.
However, in December 2019, Mr P was informed that the car had not been taxed, and that 
the car was liable to be clamped because of this. As Mr P didnt yet have the log-book he 
arranged for the car to be taken off the road and stored until the road tax could be arranged.
Mr P complained to the supplying dealer. The supplying dealer says it confirmed there had 
been an administrative error and the car wasnt taxed. It says that it offered to rectify the 
situation, but Mr P declined as he wanted to reject the car. Mr P says he was concerned that 
without being properly taxed it would have an impact on his insurance cover, and so made a 
complaint to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo upheld Mr Ps complaint as it agreed there had been an error made by the 
supplying dealer over the taxing of the car. It sorted out the issue and so the car was 
properly taxed in February 2020. MotoNovo paid Mr P £500 as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience that had been caused, but it declined to pay the storage charges incurred 
by Mr P keeping the car off the road. MotoNovo said it wasnt able to accept the invoice from 
the garage that had been keeping the car as it wasnt VAT registered.
Mr P was unhappy at the decision made by MotoNovo and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She said that she was 
satisfied the supplying dealer had made an error over the taxing of the car, having agreed to 
do so before Mr P took it. And, under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, 
MotoNovo was liable for things that the supplying dealer had said during the sale of the car 
to Mr P.
Our investigator said she thought it was unreasonable for MotoNovo to decline to reimburse 
Mr P the cost of transporting the car to be stored and the storage fees. She said, although 
the garage wasnt VAT registered, this was only due to the size of its turnover and didnt 
mean it wasnt a legitimate business. The storage fee had been reasonable, and even 
though Mr P and the garage owner may have been friends, this didnt mean the charges 
werent legitimate. An invoice had been provided. The investigator also said that MotoNovo 
hadnt at any point told Mr P that the car could only be stored on VAT registered business 
premises.
MotoNovo had reimbursed Mr P for two months car insurance, which our investigator said 
she thought was fair. But the car had been in storage for a total of 56 days, meaning Mr P 
had been unable to use it throughout that period and the investigator said she thought a fair 
settlement would be for MotoNovo to do the following:
Reimburse Mr P the cost of the transporting the car to the garage and the storage fee 
of £1,445, together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Provide Mr P with a pro-rata refund of the monthly instalments under the agreement 
to reflect the period during which he was unable to use the car. 
Pay Mr P £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
having the car taxed and not being able to use it.
Deduct the £500 already paid to Mr P from the total balance of the above matters 
when providing the settlement amount to Mr P.
Mr P agreed with the view of our investigator, but MotoNovo disagreed. It said it thought its 
settlement had been fair and had allowed for one month of Mr P not being able to use the 
car. MotoNovo said that Mr P hadnt made payment under the agreement until February 
2020, and so hadnt paid for the car when he hadnt been able to use it. It also said it didnt 
think Mr P had been consistent about where he had stored the car, that it was policy not to 
reimburse costs from non-VAT registered businesses and that Mr P had already made the 
storage arrangements for the car before hed made contact with it.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that the supplying dealer had agreed to have the car taxed for Mr P and that 
it told him this had been done. The supplying dealer says that it inadvertently placed the tax 
on a car with a similar registration. Mr P says he doesnt accept the explanation as he thinks 
he would still have received a V5 document, albeit with the wrong details. While I appreciate 
Mr Ps concerns over the actions of the supplying dealer, I dont have enough evidence to 
say what happened other than an error occurred and the car, which should have been taxed, 
was not. This error was not due to any actions of Mr P and he was entitled to rely on what he 
had been told would be done by the dealership regarding the road tax.
Mr P drove the car for around a month believing it to be taxed correctly. Shortly before 
Christmas Mr P was informed the car had no tax and was liable to be clamped. Mr P has 
explained that he wasnt able to keep an untaxed car on the road and didnt have anywhere 
off-road that he could safely keep the car. He therefore made arrangements to have the car 
moved and stored.  
MotoNovo says that Mr P had originally said the car had been stored on the private land of a 
friend, but then had produced the storage invoice. It also said the car had been in storage for 
11 days before Mr P made contact with it.
Ive seen that it was Mr P who had made the first contact with the supplying dealership on 
learning the car was untaxed. MotoNovo says the dealership offered to rectify the situation 
but Mr P refused. I think its fair to say there was a breakdown in the relationship between 
the dealership and Mr P and Im not surprised by this. Mr P was very aggrieved at 
discovering that the car hed been using may not have been properly insured due to no fault 
of his own. I also dont think Mr P has unduly delayed in bringing his complaint to MotoNovo. In the circumstances I think Mr P acted reasonably in quickly making arrangements for the 
storage of the car. He has explained that he wasnt able to keep the car at his home and 
couldnt keep it on the road as it was untaxed. I think by acting as he did, Mr P has kept the 
car safe and limited the legal consequences of it not being properly taxed.
I appreciate Mr P said he taken the car to a friends property, but I dont think that means the 
charges for transporting it there, or for storage were unreasonable. These are also business 
premises so, even if Mr P knew the owner, it doesnt mean that the storage of the car 
wouldnt have incurred a cost for Mr P. MotoNovo has objected to reimbursing the storage 
costs because the business is not VAT registered, as it says this is its policy. But I dont 
agree that the view taken by MotoNovo in these circumstances is fair. The charges were 
reasonably and properly incurred by Mr P, and arose only because there was an error over 
the taxing of the car. I havent seen any evidence that Mr P was advised at any time that, if 
the car to be stored off-road, it could only be at a VAT registered business premises.
So, I agree with the view taken by our investigator that the storage costs were properly 
incurred by Mr P and that MotoNovo should reimburse him the full amount.
MotoNovo says that any pro-rata refund of the monthly instalments for the period Mr P was 
unable to drive the car was unfair. It raises that Mr P didnt start to make payments under the 
agreement until February 2020. Looking at the hire purchase agreement Ive seen that 
payments dont fall due until the agreement has been live for two months, after which Mr P 
must make 36 monthly instalments. So, the cost of the car is spread out over those 36 
months, though the car is in his possession for 38 months. I dont think its fair that Mr P 
pays for a car that he hasnt been able to have full use of throughout the whole life of the 
agreement as this would mean that he would be treated differently to other consumers with 
the same agreement. I think its fair that a pro-rata refund is calculated of the monthly 
payments to reflect that for 56 days Mr P was unable to use the car. 
Mr P was unable to use the car over the Christmas period and into February 2020. Ive seen 
that this led to him cancelling a holiday, although he has been able to reschedule that. He 
also arranged another form of transport. MotoNovo says that if Mr P had transport issues it 
would have arranged something for him, but he didnt raise that as a need with it. However, I 
havent seen that MotoNovo raised this issue with Mr P either. I think its reasonable to say 
that Mr P suffered distress and inconvenience by not being able to use the car, due to the 
error over the road tax. I think an amount of compensation is fair to reflect the impact dealing 
with the untaxed car caused. I agree that £350 is a fair and reasonable amount.
So, for the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Putting things right
 Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Reimburse Mr P the £1,445 cost incurred for transporting and storing the car at the 
garage together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of the monthly instalments under the agreement to reflect 
the 56 days Mr P was unable to use the car.
Pay Mr P £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience cause by having to 
deal with the untaxed car.
Deduct the £500 already paid to Mr P from the overall settlement amount.My final decision
So, for the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and Im asking MotoNovo 
Finance Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mr P the £1,445 cost incurred for transporting and storing the car at the 
garage together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of the monthly instalments under the agreement to reflect 
the 56 days Mr P was unable to use the car.
Pay Mr P £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience cause by having to 
deal with the untaxed car.
Deduct the £500 already paid to Mr P from the overall settlement amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman