DRN-3849519
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) automatically 
renewed his pet insurance policy without notification  which deprived him of the chance to 
cancel it and meant his pet was insured for a year by two insurers.
What happened
In autumn 2020, Mr B bought a pet insurance policy from LV to provide cover for his new 
dog.  He paid the premium by monthly direct debit.  A year later, the policy was automatically 
renewed, with Mr Bs premiums again collected by monthly direct debit.
In autumn 2022, LV wrote to Mr B to let him know that, from renewal, his policy would be 
administered by a different business.  A few days later, they sent him renewal documents.
Mr B contacted LV to decline the renewal.  A few days later, he called LV again to complain 
he hadnt known the policy hed bought in 2020 had been automatically renewed in 2021.  
Mr B said hed never received any renewal documentation or been notified of a change in 
premium.  And hed bought alternative cover in autumn 2021  so hed had two policies for a 
year.
LV investigated Mr Bs complaint and wrote to him with their findings.  They said a renewal 
invitation was sent to Mr B three weeks before his policy ended, which confirmed it would 
automatically renew and payments would continue, unless he instructed them otherwise.  
LV said as they didnt hear from Mr B, the policy renewed automatically.  They confirmed 
theyd searched their records for any contact from Mr B asking for the policy to be cancelled 
but hadnt found any. 
And, although LV said theyd not upheld Mr Bs complaint about the policy renewal, theyd 
not logged his complaint when he made it  only when hed called to ask about progress.  LV 
paid Mr B £20 compensation for that error.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with LVs response and brought his complaint to our service.  He told 
us he wanted the premiums hed paid LV to be refunded.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded LV didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  He was satisfied Mr Bs policy documents make it clear the policy would 
automatically renew unless Mr B told LV he didnt want that.  And he was satisfied LVs 
investigations had confirmed there was no record of Mr B doing this.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view.  He repeated that hed not been given 
information about the renewal premium in 2021.  And he said it was unfair for LV to rely on 
sending information by email without checking that had been received, opened, and read.  
Ive now been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Bs unhappy at having paid for two policies for a year, and wants his 
premiums refunded.  But I can only say LV should do this  or something else to resolve his 
complaint  if Im satisfied that they were responsible for what went wrong in this case.
Ive looked at the documentation Mr B received when he first bought a policy in 2020.  This 
included the policy document itself and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID).  
The aim of the IPID is to provide a short summary of the most important and relevant policy 
information.
Theres a section in the IPID headed When does the cover start and end?.  This includes 
the following:
If you pay your premium by Direct Debit your policy will automatically continue at the end of 
the 12 month period unless we advise otherwise or you tell us not to.
Im satisfied this makes it clear that the policies of customers who pay by direct debit  as Mr 
B did  will be automatically renewed.
Even though Im satisfied on this point, LV still had to advise Mr B of renewal, and key 
information, such as an amended premium.  I can see they emailed Mr B five weeks before 
renewal, explaining theyd send him renewal documents three weeks before the renewal 
date.  And they emailed those as scheduled.  The renewal documents included information 
about the new premium and confirmed renewal would be automatic.
Ive seen those documents were sent to the correct email address for Mr B.  So, while I 
accept Mr B says he didnt see them, I cant agree he wasnt provided with the information 
they contain.  
Nor can I agree that LV should have checked Mr B had read what theyd sent him.  He says 
LV told him they could see hed not opened the renewal email and should have checked with 
him.  
I dont think thats reasonable.  Im satisfied LV gave Mr B all the information to decide 
whether to renew his policy.  And they made clear what would happen if they heard nothing 
from him.  I dont think they need to do any more.  And, for that reason, Im not upholding Mr 
Bs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman