DRN-3347792
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Js complaint is about a secured loan, arranged in 2005, they hold with 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. They are unhappy about the sale of the loan, how it 
has been administered while they have been in financial difficulties (in that charges and fees 
have been applied) and theyre unhappy about the interest applied to the debt.
What happened
In 2005 Mrs and Mr J borrowed just over £29,000 over 25 years. The loan is secured on 
their home. 
The loan was originally granted by a lender other than Kensington. However, shortly after 
the loan started, it was transferred to Kensington. Kensington has confirmed that the loan 
was sold by an independent financial adviser, details of which it has already provided to 
Mrs and Mr J.
Mrs and Mr J have experienced financial difficulties over a long period, and this has meant 
they missed payments to the mortgage. Arrears built on the loan and charges were applied 
at times, as well as the missed payments meaning more interest was payable.
In 2014 Mrs and Mr J complained about the interest and charges that had been applied to 
the loan. Kensington responded to the complaint. Mrs and Mr J were unhappy with the 
response and asked this service to consider the complaint. We did, but we didnt uphold the 
complaint.
In 2017 Mrs and Mr J complained again about the charges that had been applied to the 
mortgage. Kensington responded and told them that if they werent satisfied, they could refer 
the complaint to this service within the following six months  by 27 November 2017.
In 2019 Mrs and Mr J complained about the advice theyd been given to take out the loan. 
Kensington explained that the advice they were complaining about had been given by an 
independent financial adviser, so it wasnt responsible for the complaint. However, it gave 
Mrs and Mr J referral rights to this service, if they wanted us to look into the complaint. 
Kensington confirmed any referral needed to be made within six months of the date of the 
letter  by 17 April 2020.
Mrs and Mr J contacted us in March 2020, complaining about the interest and charges 
applied to the mortgage. As they didnt appear to have raised their complaints with 
Kensington, we forwarded the complaint for Kensington to respond to it. 
Kensington responded to the complaint in April 2021 and explained that it had made a 
mistake with the mortgage in 2016. This had resulted in what was meant to have been a 
temporary change to the interest rate not being removed when it should have been. The 
consequence of this was that it hadnt charged any interest on the loan since January 2016. 
Kensington confirmed that it would leave the interest rate at 0% until it was repaid. In 
addition, it confirmed that although the charges applied to the mortgage since November 
2017 had been applied correctly, as a gesture of good will, it had refunded them all. 
Mrs and Mr J werent happy about Kensingtons response to their complaint and again asked 
us to look into it.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that we could only 
consider a small part of it. He explained that we couldnt consider Mrs and Mr Js concerns 
about the advice to take out the loan against Kensington, because it hadnt given that 
advice. In addition, he confirmed that we could only consider the concerns about the charges 
and fees since 27 July 2017. This was because those applied up to July 2014 had already 
been considered by this service and those from that date to July 2017 had been complained 
about in 2017, and Mrs and Mr J hadnt referred their complaint to us in time. 
In relation to the charges and fees applied to the account from July 2017, he considered 
those applied for July, August and October 2017 had been reasonably applied as the 
monthly payments had been missed, which caused Kensington additional administration. He 
also explained that, on the same basis, he didnt think that Kensington had incorrectly 
applied the charges after that date, but he endorsed its goodwill gesture of having refunded 
all of those fees. As such, he didnt think any compensation was due to Mrs and Mr J, as 
theyd requested. The investigator also highlighted that Kensington wasnt charging any 
interest on the account and had confirmed it wouldnt do so going forward. 
Mrs and Mr J didnt accept the investigators conclusions, in particular those relating to us 
not being able to consider some parts of the complaint. As such, they asked that the 
complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
I looked into what parts of the complaint we could consider. Like out investigator, I concluded 
that we could only investigate the complaint about the application of interest, charges and 
fees from July 2017. The parties didnt add any further information or evidence to the 
complaint following that, and so the complaint has been passed back to me for consideration 
of the merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont generally consider it is reasonable for a lender to add charges and fees to a 
mortgage or secured loan just because there are arrears on the account. However, where an 
account is not being maintained and this causes the lender additional cost to administer it, 
we wouldnt consider it unreasonable for charges to be applied. 
In this case, Kensington has already refunded all of the charges it applied to the mortgage 
from November 2017, which is what we would ask it to do if we considered the charges had 
been applied unreasonably. As such, I wont be commenting on those charges further. 
This leaves three charges for me to consider: those from July, August and October 2017. I 
have examined the transaction history for the loan and in none of those months did Mrs and 
Mr J make a payment to the loan. As such, I dont consider it was unreasonable of 
Kensington to apply those charges.
In relation to the interest charged on the loan, it is normal that where money has been 
borrowed that interest is charged until its paid back. As such, Kensington would have been 
entitled to charge the interest the loan contract said it could. That said, no interest has been 
charged on the account since January 2016. While Kensington has admitted that this was an 
error on its part, in light of Mrs and Mr Js circumstances, it has decided to allow the mistake to stand. In addition, it has said that it wont apply interest going forward. I consider this an 
entirely reasonable approach on Kensingtons part.
Overall, I dont consider Kensington acted unreasonably or unfairly in relation to the issues 
that this service is able to consider.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr J to accept or reject my decision 
before 31 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman