DRN-3462765
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice he received in 1998 to invest in a Personal Equity Plan and 
Unit Trust by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He says the investment was too risky.
What happened
In February 1998, Mr A took investment advice from Barclays. It was recommended that he 
invest £12,000 split equally between a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) and Unit Trust, both 
which were invested in the Barclays Managed Growth fund. The money came from Mr Hs 
savings and was to be held for a period no less than five years.
The following year, Mr A transferred his Unit Trust into his PEP and in October 2000, having 
received more advice, Mr A made a further investment in addition to transferring his PEP - 
valued a little over £13k - to a Barclays Portfolio.
In August 2020, with help of his representative, Mr A complained to Barclays. He said he felt 
the investment advice received in 1999 and 2000 had been unsuitable for the following 
reasons:
He was advised to invest too much money 
He was advised to take too much risk for a first-time investor
Barclays considered the concerns. It investigated the advice it had provided between 1998 
and 2000 but thought the recommendations were suitable. It said Mr A was in a position to 
invest; he had no plans for this portion of his money and was left with large savings which he 
could add to monthly. Barclays also said its categorisation of Mr As risk appetite (medium) 
was in line with his investment objective. He wanted the potential for favourable longer term 
returns without his capital being exposed to day to day volatility, so it didnt uphold his 
complaint. However, Barclays did pay Mr A £200 for delays in dealing with the complaint.
Mr A disagreed with Barclays. He thought hed been financially disadvantaged and that the 
advice concerning the sale of the PEP in 1998 alone wasnt suitable at the time because he 
was looking to purchase a property. Unhappy with Barclays response, he asked for our 
help. One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt feel it should be upheld. 
She said she didnt think the level of risk was too much for Mr A simply because he was a 
first-time investor. She also didnt think the spread of his investment was unsuitable for his 
circumstances given his financial circumstances at the time and his objectives.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
maintained he was advised to take too much risk  over 72% of his funds were in UK 
equities and 26% in overseas shares. He said regardless of what was left to him on deposit, 
it, he should have been told to take a lower risk than advised. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
At the time the adviser noted Mr A, aged 32, was co-habiting and had dependents. He was 
self-employed and owned his own business. He held around £58,000 in savings. £20,000 of 
this was planned expenditure to grow his business, but he planned to add a further £300 to 
his savings every month after his expenses were accounted for. He also had no liabilities 
other than a mortgage, which already had a repayment method in place. 
Following Mr As responses in the personal review, the adviser concluded that he had a 
medium attitude to investment risk. Whilst theres nothing in the review that details what was 
discussed around this, it was recorded Mr A wanted to achieve capital growth over the 
medium to long term that could exceed the return he might otherwise have received by 
leaving his capital on deposit. 
Mr A agreed to commit approximately 31% of his total savings. Although his capital would be 
in use for the duration, Mr A didnt appear to have required an income from this investment 
as he held more than £26,000 across other accessible savings accounts. To my mind, 
Barclays recommendation to invest £12,000, although appears somewhat sizeable when 
considered against the backdrop of Mr As savings, wasnt an unreasonable sum to invest 
taking into account his wider financial circumstances.
Mr A says the UK Growth fund was too risky for him. His reason for this comes down to him 
being a first-time investor. There is some strength to the argument that someone who hasnt 
invested before might not have understood the risks of being invested in primarily UK 
equities, 26% in overseas funds, and less than 0.4% in cash/cash equivalents. I 
acknowledge these products can be complex, but I think it is wrong to say that it isnt 
possible for someone who is a first-time investor to be properly identified as a medium risk 
investor. The fact find showed Mr A wanted to do something else with some of his money. 
So, it seems more likely than not he wanted to take a risk with some of his capital.
Im mindful that there were limited ways in which to achieve better returns without risking his 
capital. There was a chance he could lose money, but Im satisfied he was made aware of 
this possibility. I think Mr A understood and accepted that that the higher the risk, the greater 
the potential scope for reward. So, Im satisfied that this was a risk he was willing and able to 
take with this portion of his overall wealth in the hope of that return.
Taking into account Mr As wider financial situation, Im believe the recommendation was 
suitable and in line with the level of risk he was prepared and could afford to take, as it 
offered the potential to outperform the returns on a deposit account over the same period. It 
follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
On a final note, I understand Barclays has paid £200 for the delays it caused in dealing with 
Mr As complaint. This issue has not been raised with our service, so I havent made a 
finding on this element of the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman