DRN-3715858
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCF) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension 
plan. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
At the time the BSPS scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr E had 6 years and 
3 months of pensionable service with his employer which gave him a total (index linked) 
pension of £2,574.95 per year (forecast to be £4,303 per year at age 65 or £2,353 at age 
55). After the DB scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr E joined his employers 
Defined Contribution (DC) scheme. 
In September 2017 Mr E had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the 
DB scheme of £52,062.52 valid for 3 months until 11 December 2017. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr E was unsure about what to do so he contacted DCF. DCF completed a fact-find in 
November 2017 to gather information about Mr Es circumstances and objectives. Mr Es 
circumstances at the time were noted as follows:
He was aged 44, married with three children, two of which were no longer dependent 
on him and one which was.
He was employed as a team member earning £32,300 per year excluding bonuses. 
Mrs E was employed earning £12,500 per year. 
Mr and Mrs E had a combined monthly income of £2,700 and their monthly combined 
expenditure on their mortgage, loans and credit cards was £760. Their other 
outgoings were undocumented. 
Mr and Mrs Es house was valued at £110,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£51,500 with 17 years to run.
He had no savings, investments or assets. 
He was recorded as being a member of his employers DC scheme, making 
contributions of 6% of his salary per year along with employer contributions of 10% 
per year; the fund was valued at approximately £2,000-£3,000. 
Mrs E was documented as being a member of her employers DB scheme since 
2011.
Mr and Mrs E had a joint mortgage protection policy  the amount of cover was 
undocumented  along with death in service cover from Mr Es employer of four 
times his salary.
His preferred retirement age was 57 but he was unsure what percentage of his 
current income he would need in retirement. It was documented that he would 
consider this at the time he retired. 
That he was uncertain about the new BSPS2 and didnt want to risk his benefits 
being reduced in the future by either the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or the 
BSPS2. 
He wanted to take control of his pension away from his employer, to have flexible 
income in retirement, to retire early without penalty, and liked the idea of flexible 
death benefits and being able to leave his remaining pension fund to his wife.
DCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Es attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be 
cautious to moderate or a risk level of 4 on a scale of 1 to 10. It also thought he had the 
capacity for loss as determined by his ATR. 
A transfer value analysis report (TVAS) was produced on 2 November 2017 which set out 
the amount of investment growth (known as the critical yield) required by the transferred 
funds to be able to match the benefits being given up in the BSPS. It said Mr Es pension 
would need to achieve growth of 8.31% each year to match his full scheme income at age 
65 or 12.59% to match his full scheme income at age 55. It also stated that Mr Es pension 
would need to grow by 6.3% to match the benefits he could receive from the PPF at age 65. 
On 14 November 2017 DCF provided Mr E with its suitability report and advised him to 
transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider 
(L) in 19 different funds to be actively managed by DCF. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation to Mr E were, in summary: 
Flexibility of income in retirement 
To have the flexibility to take early retirement before the scheme NRD of 65 without 
being financially penalised.
To be able to access 25% of the fund as tax-free cash (TFC).
The uncertainty surrounding the BSPS, fear of benefits being cut further in the future, 
concern that the fund would fall into the PPF and the new BSPS2.
Transferring his benefits would remove them from the control of his employer who he 
didnt trust.
Flexible death benefits.
Mr E accepted the recommendation and signed the transfer forms on 8 November 2017. The 
forms were submitted to L and Mr E signed a declaration on 30 November 2017 to say that 
he had received and read the suitability report. DCF were remunerated with an initial advice 
fee of £1,301.56 and an annual ongoing adviser fee of 1% of the fund value. L also charged 
an annual fee of 0.25% and the 19 different funds that the pension was invested in each 
attracted their own annual charges ranging between 0.46% and 1.38% which proportionately 
equated to a further annual fund charge of 1.06%. The transfer took effect in mid-March 
2018. 
In October 2021 Mr E raised a complaint with this service. We told Mr E that before we were 
able to look into his complaint he first needed to raise a complaint with DCF which would 
then have 8 weeks to issue him with its final response letter.DCF looked into Mr Es complaint and issued him with its final response letter in late 
November 2021. DCF said it didnt think it had done anything wrong so it wasnt upholding 
Mr Es complaint. It said it had concluded that the advice it gave Mr E in November 2017 had 
been suitable. 
As Mr E was unhappy with the outcome of DCFs investigation into his complaint one of our 
Investigators looked into it for him and recommended that the complaint was upheld. He said 
that whilst Mr E may well have had concerns about the future viability of his employer, DCF 
should have explained that the options it was providing would continue to provide some form 
of protection for him which would have given him reassurance and eased his concerns about 
the fund. And he said any concerns Mr E had about his employer would still have existed 
regardless of where his pension fund was. So our Investigator didnt think this was a 
sufficient enough reason to justify the transfer. 
Our Investigator went on to say that Mr E was some way off of retirement with unknown 
wants and needs so it would have been advisable to have advised Mr E to wait until he was 
closer to retiring before deciding if he wanted to transfer his fund or not. Our Investigator 
also said that it was also incorrect to say that early retirement under the scheme attracted a 
penalty when any reduction in benefits paid merely reflected the fact that the pension would 
need to be paid for longer. He thought the same could be said for using a personal pension 
to take early retirement  as demonstrated by the larger critical yields that applied in such 
situations. 
Our Investigator didnt think flexible death benefits justified the transfer nor did he think, 
given the critical yields, that the transfer was financially viable; he thought the opportunity to 
match, let alone exceed, the benefits of his scheme was unlikely. 
Our Investigator recommended that DCF should compensate Mr E for the losses he incurred 
by transferring his DB pension and that compensation should be based on him having opted 
to join the BSPS2. He also thought DCF should pay Mr E compensation of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience he had been caused by having to live with the worry that the 
advice hed received had caused him financial detriment. 
Mr E replied to say he accepted our Investigators findings.
DCF responded to say it disagreed with our Investigators findings which, it said, were unfair 
and unreasonable. It made the following comments: 
BSPS2 was far from certain at the time so it plainly could not have recommended a 
transfer. 
It didnt accept that the critical yield should be the focal point for assessing the 
suitability of its advice. The only critical yield that should be used for comparison 
purposes was the one for the PPF so any focus on the critical yields associated with 
BSPS was wrong because it wasnt going to continue.
The advice it gave Mr E was suitable and in his best interests. The critical yield is just 
one consideration and of limited relevance to a client with no intention of purchasing 
an annuity at retirement. If the critical yield was the most important factor to take into 
account then the regulators COBS rules would have said as much.
The critical yield doesnt determine the overall suitability of the advice.
For the period of time it had managed Mr Es personal pension his fund achieved 
annualised growth of 5.61%.
It questioned the focus on discount rates. The regulator didnt require firms to 
consider or apply discount rates when advising consumers. When comparing the critical yield for the PPF against the applicable discount rate it was apparent that the 
critical yield would be achievable. 
Mr E had a number of compelling reasons for transferring his pension. He would not 
have been able to achieve his objectives without transferring. 
That even if it hadnt advised Mr E to transfer he would have proceeded anyway as 
an insistent client. 
That our Investigators findings were unfair and unreasonable; were overly focussed 
on critical yields and discount rates without considering the overall suitability of the 
advice; placed no weight on Mr Es actual objectives; that even if the critical yield for 
matching benefits under the PPF was unlikely to be achieved the transfer was a 
suitable one given Mr Es objectives.
That the flexibility to draw income in the way he wanted was more important to Mr E 
that having a rigid set income for life. 
Mr E had four compelling reasons for accessing his pension: to retire early without 
actuarial reduction; to access TFC without drawing an income from his pension; to 
take control of his pension; to allow any unused pension to be left to his wife and any 
potential children in the event of his death. Mr E would not have been able to achieve 
his objectives without transferring. 
Mr E didnt value the death benefits offered by the BSPS or the PPF rather he 
preferred the notion of his dependents receiving the remaining balance of his fund. 
That our Investigators view diminished the importance of Mr Es objectives and 
instructions he gave at the time of the advice which didnt reflect the COBS rules and 
guidance or the FCAs guidance for assessing the suitability of the transfer. This 
made it unfair and unreasonable. 
Our Investigator considered what DCF had said in response to his view but wasnt 
persuaded to change his mind about Mr Es complaint. He said his findings had addressed 
all the objectives for the transfer and that thered not been an over emphasis on the critical 
yield. He said the annualised return of 5.61% that DCF had quoted was still significantly 
below the critical yield for the benefits given up. Our Investigator also said hed seen no 
evidence that Mr E would have pursued the transfer as an insistent client. He said that he 
was still of the view that it hadnt been shown that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests or 
that Mr E had any particularly valid reason for the transfer. So he thought DCF should have 
recommended that Mr E move to BSPS2. 
DCF also sent some further comments to our Investigator. It said any compensation 
calculation needed to be based on the PPF, not BSPS2 because BSPS2 didnt exist at the 
time the advice was given. 
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCF should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
DCF carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Es pension fund would need to grow by each year (the critical yield) in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme. This analysis was based on his existing BSPS 
scheme benefits, but Mr E didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS; he either needed to 
opt into BSPS2 or move with the existing BSPS scheme to the PPF. 
DCF has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it 
could provide was with the benefits available to Mr E through the PPF. But I think DCF 
overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr E had received his Time to Choose 
pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been provided; the 
BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been 
lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think the proposed 
benefits available to Mr E through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice so 
that he was able to make an informed decision. 
The TVAS dated 2 November 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 8.31% 
if he took a full pension and at age 55 it was 12.59%. Given that one of the advantages of 
the transfer DCF cited, was to take 25% TFC flexibly it is notable that DCF didnt calculate 
the critical yield required for such a scenario at either age. The critical yields required to 
match the benefits provided through the PPF were 6.3% if Mr E took a full pension at age 65 
or 5.98% if he took a reduced pension and a pension commencement tax free lump sum 
(PCLS). At age 55 the critical yields were 10.12% and 9.69% respectively.
According to the fact-find and the suitability report Mr E wanted to retire from British Steel 
early, possibly at age 57 however, that doesnt appear to have been anything more than a 
best guess, given he was only 44 at the time of the advice and would likely continue 
working for around another 20+ years. Nevertheless, given Mr E had expressed a desire to retire at that age, I think DCF shouldve provided him with the relevant critical yields for 
BSPS2 at the time it was advising him so that he was able to make an informed decision.
As Ive said above, Mr E remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been provided by DCF. The 
lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF 
benefits, particularly at age 65. And that way Mr E would have been in possession of all the 
information he needed to make an informed choice. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.5% per year for 21 years to retirement (age 
65) and 4.1% for 13 years to retirement (age 57). For further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Es 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. DCF says that at the time of the advice it 
assessed that Mr E as having being a cautious to moderate risk investor. Having reviewed 
the ATR questionnaire completed at the time of the advice I think that DCFs assessment in 
this respect was reasonable. 
Ive thought about Mr Es capacity for loss but I dont think that the length of time he had to 
go to retirement meant his capacity for loss was significant. I can see that at the time of the 
advice Mr E had no savings to speak of and that he had 17 years left to run on his mortgage. 
It cant be assumed that just because Mr E had 20+ years to go until he retired that he could 
afford to gamble by transferring his DB scheme. The income he was forecast to receive at 
retirement from the scheme (if he remained) is, I think, one he didnt have the capacity to 
lose.
There would be little point in Mr E giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was 5.98%, which was based on Mr E taking a reduced pension and a 
PCLS through the PPF at age 65. The critical yield if Mr E took a full pension (no critical yield 
having been produced for a reduced pension and TFC) through his existing scheme at age 
65 was 8.31%. So, if Mr E were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 65 
the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 
8.31%.
Given the discount rate of 4.5% the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, and a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Es ATR, I think Mr E was most likely to receive benefits of a 
lower overall value than those provided by the PPF and the BSPS2 if he transferred to a 
personal pension, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And I am confident 
had DCF informed Mr E of the true value and benefits of BSPS2 and the PPF, and then 
advised him to remain in the BSPS, he would have accepted this and when the availability of 
BSPS2 arose, he would have opted to be transferred into it.DCF says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this alone, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Es attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
Furthermore, DCF said in its suitability letter: The critical yield required is high and it would 
be very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are 
giving up. So it is clear to me that DCF realised that by transferring, Mr E would be unable 
to match the benefits he was giving up. 
DCF provided analysis in the TVAS of the critical yields Mr Es pension would need to attain 
for retirement at ages 55 and 65 and along with analysis of how long his pension last if he 
drew the same income (indexed linked) as provided by his DB scheme (without taking any 
TFC). If he retired at age 65 his pension would run out by the time he was 88 and if he 
retired at 55 it would run out by the time he was 87. If Mr E been advised to remain in BSPS 
however and transfer to the PPF or BSPS2, his pension would never have run out, 
regardless of how long he lived.
I note too that the TVAS analyses the hurdle rate (the rate of return required to purchase an 
annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing 
scheme assuming no spouses pension and no index linking). The hurdle rate to age 65 was 
4.52% and to age 55 was 3.99%. So only the hurdle rate at 55 was below the discount rate I 
have referred to above. But only by using a method of comparison that didnt match the 
guaranteed benefits in Mr Es BSPS, could it be argued that the DB scheme transfer was 
financially viable. But of course, both the index linking and spouses pension are very 
valuable benefits so I dont accept the hurdle rate to age 55 demonstrates that the transfer 
was suitable and in Mr Es best interests. 
I think that its misleading for DCF to refer to any income thats been reduced as a result of 
taking retirement earlier than the schemes NRD as being subject to a penalty. What 
actually occurs is an actuarial adjustment to reflect a situation where the scheme is being 
asked to pay a pension for a longer period of time. This isnt done to penalise individuals 
and I think DCFs focus should have been on explaining this to Mr E. That by taking early 
retirement from the scheme his pension would be reduced accordingly to reflect that. DCF 
should also have explained that a similar situation applied when using a personal pension to 
fund early retirement  as illustrated by the larger critical yields that applied in such 
situations. In Mr Es best interests, DCF should have said that rather than transferring he 
may want to wait to nearer retirement age to see if he did really want or need to retire at 57. 
He may well be content to work past 57 and the more years he does so, the smaller any 
actuarial reduction his scheme benefits would have been. 
While DCF has referred to the past performance of the funds it recommended to him, as 
DCF will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider 
the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard 
in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long 
period of time.In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Es benefits were reduced as a 
result, if he retired early I think he would have still been very unlikely to match, let alone 
exceed, those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. By transferring his pension 
I think it was highly likely that Mr E would be financially worse off in retirement. 
Given Mr E was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as DCF has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Es best interests, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason that DCF recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr E. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr E needed to transfer 
his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement. Nor do I think 
he needed to access his DB scheme before his NRD such that it was at risk of actuarial 
reduction.
Mr E was only age 44 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he didnt have 
concrete retirement plans. As Mr E had 11 years before he could think about accessing his 
pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr E to give up his 
guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr E 
later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme they could have done so closer to 
retirement.
It's evident that Mr E could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr E had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr E had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more 
of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. An advisers job isnt to simply facilitate a 
customers wants. Any objectives should be thoroughly interrogated to determine if they are 
realistic or not or achievable through other means. And ultimately the adviser had to 
determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits of available through the BSPS 
(and then the PPF) was in Mr Es best interests. 
But Ive seen no evidence that DCF meaningfully explored Mr Es retirement objectives with 
him. Most people, if asked, say that they would want to retire as early as possible. But if DCF 
had had full regard to Mr Es information and communication needs I think it should have 
explored his actual retirement plans and what was important to him. I cant see that DCF 
determined what income Mr E would require in retirement, or for that matter, what his 
existing outgoings were and whether there was any disposable income that he could put 
towards building a savings pot which could provide him with the flexibility he said he needed 
in retirement. All I can see is that Mr Es mortgage was due to be paid off by the time he was 
57 so its reasonable to assume that his disposable income would increase as this point 
thereby allowing him to build a savings pot to access flexibly to top up his retirement income. 
Furthermore, DCFs advice largely ignores the retirement funds that Mr E would be building 
up over the next 20+ years, through his employers DC scheme. The fact-find says that Mr E 
and his employer were making combined contributions of 16% of his salary into his DC 
scheme. So it is reasonable to assume that even with modest investment growth over the 
next 20+ years, Mr E will have access to a significant fund by the time he retires. And Mr E 
could use his DC scheme if he wanted to retire early, without needing to access his DB scheme before his NRD (thereby avoiding any actuarial reduction). I think that DCF should 
have placed more emphasis on the fund Mr E would be building up in his DC scheme and 
how they could be accessed flexibly should he want to do so. 
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr E had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr E 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £2,826.43 per year (along with a PCLS of £18,842.88) 
from the PPF. This was lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I 
dont think it wouldve been substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to 
the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr E wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until 
his state pension became payable, or until he reached his DB scheme NRD if he wanted to 
retire earlier. So, I still think Mr E couldve most likely met his needs in retirement even if the 
BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with it to the PPF.
I cant see that there was any known need for TFC without having to simultaneously draw an 
income (Mr Es mortgage would be repaid some years before retirement). But if, by the time 
Mr E retired some 20+ years hence, he needed a lump sum without wanting to start drawing 
his pension at the same time there were, as Ive previously explained, other means available 
to him. And I think Mr E couldve met his income needs until his state pension became 
payable at age 68. Mr E would have likely had a significant pension to draw on flexibly (from 
his DC scheme), as and when he needed, to top up his income or take additional lump 
sums. So, I dont think Mr E would have had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into 
the BSPS2.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr E could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65 and taking 
additional funds from his DC scheme until his state pension became payable. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Es best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that 
he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr E. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr E might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr E about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCF explored to what extent 
Mr E was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr E 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr E predeceased her. There was also provision for a childrens pension (at the 
time of the advice Mr Es daughter was aged 9) up to age 23 if they remained in full-time 
education. I dont think DCF made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr E. These 
benefits were guaranteed and escalated  the spouses pension would also be calculated as 
if no TFC had been taken  so it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And, as the TVAS shows, Mr Es 
pension fund would be depleted by age 88 if he achieved an annual investment return of 
8.31%, so there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when he died. In any event, DCF should not have encouraged Mr E to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
DCF says that Mr E wanted to improve on his scheme death benefits. It also said that Mr E 
was concerned about the scheme death benefits, that he wanted to pass any unused 
pension on to his wife and children and that he preferred the notion of any unused benefits 
being transferred to his dependents on his death. DCF says that the transfer meant these 
objectives were achieved for Mr E; Im unable to agree. Transferring his pension was clearly 
not the only way for Mr E to achieve this objective. If Mr E genuinely wanted to leave a 
legacy for his wife and child, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think DCF couldve explored the option of life 
insurance. If he wanted an extra sum specifically for his wife (and later his child), or if he 
wanted to improve on his death benefits then he couldve taken extra cover out on a whole 
of life basis and written it in trust for the benefit of any children. 
And Mr E already had a significant death in service benefit through his employer (by virtue of 
his membership of the DC scheme) of four times his annual salary. So, arguably, Mr E 
already had sufficient life cover in place. So, Mr E already made provisions to ensure that 
part of his pension didnt die with him. But Ive seen no evidence of any discussion with Mr E 
about using his DC scheme in this way should he so wish. So a degree of legacy planning 
was available in any event without the need to transfer.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumer, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr E, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFs obligation to give Mr E an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice DCF gave Mr E shouldve properly taken the benefits available 
to him through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Es concerns 
about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCF shouldve 
reassured Mr E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr E through the PPF wouldve still provided a portion of the income he 
thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to DCF recommending Mr E transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.I also think Mr Es desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr E was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr E  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme. 
It seems to me that Mr Es stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment. 
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Es employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not one and the same. And in any event, Mr E was not intending to leave his 
employment and his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out 
of the scheme didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had DCF explained that Mr Es 
belief regarding the control Mr Es employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he 
would have been reassured by this.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr E. But DCF 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr E might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr E needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to was Mr E suitable or in his best interests. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr E was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr E had a vague objective to retire 
at age 57 but I dont think this was a fully formed plan; it was some 13 years away.  And I 
dont think DCF interrogated this objective in any meaningful way  it didnt establish how 
much TFC or income Mr E would need, so it couldnt offer any real insight into whether Mr E 
couldve met this objective by moving with the scheme to the PPF or the new BSPS2, or by 
using the savings already available to him. So, I dont think Mr Es plans or ambitions were 
concrete enough for DCF to say it was in his best interests to give up his guaranteed 
benefits and transfer out of the scheme.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr E was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr E. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above, I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS. 
Mr E was being advised by DCF after having received the Time to Choose document and 
was at the point where he had to select which option to he wanted to take. I carefully 
considered what Mr E likely would have done  had he been suitably advised by DCF  and 
on balance I think he would have opted to join the BSPS2. I say this because I dont think 
Mr Es retirement plans were fully formed. So, I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr E wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme if 
he needed to at some point in the future. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think DCF shouldve advised 
Mr E to opt into the BSPS2.DCF says the BSPS2 had not been confirmed at the time it was advising Mr E and that it is 
unreasonable for us to say Mr E shouldve been advised to join this scheme as it wasnt a 
genuine option. I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was 
given. But DCF was advising Mr E only a month or so before the Time to Choose form had 
to be returned to Mr Es employer (and even sent him a reminder letter in early December 
2017). I think it was clear to all parties at this point that talks were progressing well and that 
BSPS2 was very likely to be going ahead. So, contrary to what DCF has said, I do think this 
was an option that it couldve recommended at the time. And I dont think DCF could be said 
to be acting in Mr Es best interests by ignoring the progress of the new scheme and failing 
to consider whether opting into this scheme was suitable for him.
 
So, I think DCF shouldve advised Mr E to join the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr E would've gone ahead anyway, against DCF's 
advice. DCF says Mr Es needs and objectives were only met by transferring to the personal 
pension and considering he was fully aware of the benefits he was sacrificing, and bearing in 
mind the objectives he was keen to achieve, it says he would have continued with the 
transfer regardless. Put simply, DCF says that Mr E was as good as an insistent client who 
wouldve chosen to transfer even if it had advised him against it.
Im not persuaded that Mr Es concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if DCF had 
explained that Mr E was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him 
by transferring, that he shouldnt be prioritising death benefits over retirement benefits, that 
the flexibility he sought could be met by other means, that the uncertainty over his 
requirements meant transferring at that time was not in interests and that the other things 
hed expressed worry about were not things he needed to be as concerned about as he was, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr E would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
For this reason, I think DCF should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
offered by the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes. This is 
because I know that Mr E is a very long way from retirement and has no firmly formed plans 
around when he will retire. 
I agree with our Investigator that Mr E has been caused some distress and inconvenience 
since becoming aware that the advice hed received from DCF to transfer was unsuitable. So 
I think that DCF should pay him compensation of £300 in recognition of any trouble and 
upset it has caused him.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. Mr E has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr E.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would have 
most likely opted into the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
DCF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Mr E is a long way from retirement. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.
DCF may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Es 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date DCF receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCF to pay Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCF to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
DCF should also pay Mr E compensation of £300 in recognition of any trouble and upset it 
has caused him. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman