DRN-1979860
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the repairs carried out by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) under her home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Miss S made a claim under her home insurance policy following a water leak.  Miss S was 
unhappy about a range of issues related to how the claim was handled, including how the 
repairs were carried out. Miss S complained to RSA. When RSA replied, Miss S was 
unhappy with its response, so she contacted this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that RSA should deal with the issue, 
including with the flooring and should pay a total of £500 compensation, which included the 
compensation already offered by RSA. Both Miss S and RSA accepted the investigators 
findings. 
Miss S then raised a new complaint as she said that the customer service of the company 
that did the work on the flooring was poor and the quality of its work wasnt satisfactory. 
When Miss S complained to RSA, it upheld her complaint. RSA said that although an 
appointment had been arranged for the flooring company to visit, it was aware that the 
appointment had been cancelled shortly before the visit. It also said that it was aware that 
the door bar had left an impression in the flooring, which couldnt be removed. RSA said that 
the flooring company would revisit to assess what work needed to be undertaken. It also 
offered a further £100 compensation.
Miss S was unhappy with RSAs response and said she hadnt received any contact from the 
flooring company. So, she complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. 
He said Miss S had received poor service, including the visit being cancelled at short notice. 
He also didnt think the work had been completed to a satisfactory standard. He said another 
company should visit to inspect the issues. He also said that RSA should pay an additional 
£200 compensation, so £300 in total.
Both RSA and Miss S accepted the decision. However, Miss S then asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman as she was still concerned about the repairs.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the same reasons as our investigator. I wont 
go into all of the details of what has happened in this case because both parties know this 
well. However, I can see that there were a number of issues with the flooring, including the 
size of the door bar and a sticky residue being left on the floor. Given Miss S is a wheelchair 
user, I can see that the residue could have had a particular impact on her ability to move 
around her home freely. 
I think that there have been a number of delays and avoidable issues that have impacted on 
Miss S. This includes an appointment being cancelled at very short notice. Although I accept 
that there were reasons why the contractor couldnt attend, I think that the issue could have 
been identified earlier and that alternative options for who could attend, and when, could 
then have been considered. 
I also understand that Miss S experienced a number of issues dealing with the flooring 
company and that as a result she would prefer not to deal with that company again. From 
what I have seen this has added to her concerns about how her claim has been dealt with 
and I can understand why she has lost confidence in that company.
Im also aware that RSA should have carried out a lasting repair that put Miss S back in the 
position she was in before the water leak. However, because of the issues with the door bar 
and the floor, I dont think this is what happened here. So I can understand that Miss S was 
unhappy about how these repairs were carried out  
Putting things right
As a result, RSA should ensure that any outstanding repairs are now completed to a 
satisfactory standard and provide a lasting repair. RSA should also pay Miss S £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, which includes the £100 it already 
offered. 
It is RSA who is responsible for settling the claim and the quality of the work carried out. 
However, given the difficulties Miss S has experienced with the flooring company, RSA 
might wish to give serious consideration to appointing a different company to carry out any 
assessment or works.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my provisional decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Ensure that the flooring repairs have been carried out to a satisfactory standard in order 
to resolve the claim.
Pay Miss S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman