DRN-3206728
The complaint
Mr Z complained that his claim was unfairly declined under his home emergency policy with 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). 
What happened
Mr Z said he had a leak somewhere under his drive, so Aviva sent out one of its engineers to 
investigate. Mr Z said he showed the engineer water seeping up from underground. Aviva 
said its engineer who attended the property carried out several tests before informing Mr Z 
there wasnt a leak.
Mr Z said he spoke to Aviva again, but as it didnt think there was a leak, it wouldnt do any 
further work. Mr Z said he appointed a builder a couple of weeks later to inspect his driveway 
and to investigate the leak. Mr Z said his builder said he thought there was something 
blocking the blocked paving on the driveway and he would need to excavate part of the 
driveway to be sure.
Mr Z said the driveway was starting to leak, so, he said the builder excavated near the house 
to expose pipework and the builder said there was a leak. He said the pipe was sitting under 
water and water was seeping from the pipe. Mr Zs builder replaced the pipe as he couldnt 
continue with the damage. Mr Z said Aviva did attend the property during the works and Mr Z 
said Aviva confirmed there was a leak. However, Mr Z said his main concern was the leaking 
pipe had caused his drive to sink, so he commissioned the builder to lift the old drive, 
remove any damaged layers, relay the base and replace the whole block paving. He said 
this cost £8,500.
Aviva said the policy only covered works up to £4,000. Aviva validated the claim, but Mr Z 
was unable to provide the information that was requested, so Aviva said it would be happy to 
consider the claim once this information was provided.
 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the information that Aviva 
had requested was fair and as this wasnt provided by Mr Z, she thought it was reasonable 
Aviva hadnt gone further to consider the claim. Mr Z disagreed, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider what information has been requested, I wanted to better understand the 
context of the complaint and why Aviva may have requested the information. Avivas 
engineer attended Mr Zs property and carried out a full range of tests at the property and 
informed Mr Z there wasnt a leak. Mr Z stated that Aviva visited the property again when the 
builder was on site and confirmed the leak. However, Aviva said it didnt re-attend the 
property after the first visit. I have reviewed the claim notes held by Aviva and there is no 
record of them planning to or attending the property for a second time.
I have also considered that the builder decided to replace all or most of the length of the pipe 
that was in situ, whereas Aviva has said if there was a leak on the pipe, it wouldve only 
replaced the small section of the pipe that was affected and it estimated this wouldve cost in 
the region of £300-400 to carry out the works. Given this information, Im persuaded that 
Aviva didnt attend the property a second time, as the notes dont support this. I think if Aviva 
had attended, there would be significant commentary in its notes about the type of repair 
required, supported by photos of the condition of the driveway and an explanation of the 
rectification works that were required.
Therefore, given these circumstances, where Aviva have been asked to settle a claim of 
£8,500 but Aviva didnt think there was a leak, I start from the position where I think its 
reasonable for Aviva to be asking for information related to the work in order that it can 
properly understand what has happened and to validate the claim. I dont think Aviva 
authorised the works or had the opportunity to discuss the works before they were carried 
out.
Aviva has said its happy to reassess the complaint and consider whats covered by the 
policy. However, before it is willing to do this, it has asked as part of its claim validation for 
certain pieces of information from Mr Z. I think this is reasonable. Aviva arent satisfied with 
what has been received so hasnt been able to consider the claim. I will consider whether I 
think the information specifically requested by Aviva is reasonable and whether it has been 
fair in not progressing the claim further.
Aviva asked Mr Z to provide it with an invoice from your builder, on letter headed paper, 
with the company details; name, address and telephone number, with their VAT registered 
number as well as evidence of the builders qualifications to be working on the water supply 
pipe, such as an industry regulation card, the example given was Water Industry Approved 
Plumbers Scheme (WIAPS). I think it was reasonable for Aviva to request this information 
given it has been asked to cover the claim. The evidence of qualifications supports that the 
person or company assessing and repairing the leak was suitably qualified and arrived at the 
correct conclusions. So, I think it was right Mr Z had to provide this information.
Mr Z did provide an invoice, but it didnt have all the details Aviva requested. Ive noted that 
Mr Z said his builder was a sole trader. However, Aviva did some checks on the builder and 
couldnt find any records related to him, so I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to stick 
with the requirements it asked for. I can see Aviva also asked for greater detail on the 
breakdown of costs that hasnt been provided. Whilst, I appreciate as a sole trader the 
builder wouldnt have a company number or be VAT registered, however, I think Aviva has 
been fair in trying to get the other information it has asked for. 
Mr Z hasnt been able to provide details of his builder or of any affiliation to an industry 
regulated plumbers scheme. An approved contractor should issue a certificate to say work 
complies with the Regulations. As this information, hasnt been provided I think Aviva are fair 
in not progressing the claim. I know Mr Z has indicated hes finding it hard to locate his 
builder / plumber to get these assurances. This must be frustrating for him. However, I dont 
think its fair to expect Aviva to consider and settle such a large claim without having more 
robust information to base its decision on. Therefore, I dont think Aviva have been unfair in 
not progressing this claim further, so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
do anymore. If Mr Z provides the additional information requested, Aviva has said it would 
consider his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman