DRN-3149584
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P (the complainants) say the private banking, portfolio management and e-
banking services they received from SG Kleinwort Hambros Bank Limited (SG) between 
May 2018 and December 2019 (the complaint period) were below the standard they were 
entitled to expect/receive and had paid for; that SGs poor service extended to undue delays 
in completing the outward transfers of their portfolio and Mr Ps Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) between October and December 2019, after they terminated SGs services 
on 8 October 2019; and that SG should refund the fees it received during the complaint 
period.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. In 
the main, he found as follows:
The wrongdoings that allegedly happened during the complaint period are about a 
lack of suitability/portfolio/pension reviews, limited contact with the private banker, 
problems with the e-banking service, the impact on service caused by a high turnover 
of staff at SG and a failure to remind the complainants to top-up their New Individual 
Savings Account (NISA).
It is also alleged that SG took too long (72 hours) to liquidate portfolios funds; that it 
took too long (eight working days) to transfer the funds; and that it took too long to 
transfer the SIPP, causing it to be uninvested and out of the market for seven days 
longer than it should have been.
According to the relevant terms of service, the private bankers main role was to 
serve as a point of contact for customers. The complainants also had a portfolio 
manager and, as should be expected, they had more contact from the portfolio 
manager than from the private banker. Some of their portfolio was managed on an 
advisory basis and there is evidence of correspondence in which the portfolio 
manager advised trades and sought approval for them. There is also evidence of 
suitability reports for every recommendation presented to them. Overall, there is 
evidence that the portfolio was actively managed in this context and that there was 
regular contact from the portfolio manager.
In terms of periodic reviews, SG was obliged to conduct portfolio reviews annually. 
The terms do not appear to have provided for a separate pensions review, however 
such a review would have formed a part of the overall portfolio review. A portfolio 
review was conducted in March 2018. The complainants were offered another review 
in June 2019 but a time that suited both parties could not be arranged. Thereafter 
SGs service was terminated and the complainants decided to move their assets 
away. It is unfortunate that the 2019 review could not happen, but it was offered and 
within the relevant time their portfolio was still actively managed with associated 
suitability reviews.
SG says it was its business decision not to update customers about topping up their 
ISAs. Giving such an update would have been good customer service, but SG was 
not obliged to do so.
SG cannot reasonably be held responsible for its staff making personal decisions to 
move elsewhere, so whilst it could have been frustrating for the complainants in 
terms of having to engage with new members of staff, staff turnover is not something 
our service would comment on.
There is email evidence about the e-banking problems the complainants faced, but 
there is also evidence that in the relevant situations they were able to contact their 
private banker and their requests were promptly dealt with, so no detriment was 
caused to them.
In the context of some liquidations of portfolios reasonably taking up to eight working 
days, the 72 hours the complainants have complained about was not unreasonable  
especially as the portfolio had a number of different investments with different selling 
points/periods and a loan that had to be settled first. With regards to the SIPP, a 
transfer could reasonably be completed in 10 working days; in Mr Ps case the 
transfer instruction was on 22 November 2019; under normal circumstances it should 
have been completed by 6 December 2019 but because of the size of the transfer a 
managers authorisation was reasonably needed and that could not happen on this 
date; then, on 9 December, there was cause for the SIPP provider to re-send the 
relevant order due to a signatory list matter; and on the following day the CHAPS 
payment was issued; overall, it cannot reasonably be said that SG caused any 
unnecessary delays.
Mr P responded to the investigators views and disagreed with his conclusion(s). He 
maintained that the private banker had made minimal effort to engage with him prior to 
notice about terminating SGs service; he said he does not dispute that the portfolio manager 
was in contact with him, but the contact was about specific trades and not about a more 
holistic treatment of the portfolio, and this stood in contrast to the holistic treatments he had 
experienced in periods prior to the complaint period; he said he noted the investigators point 
about the annual reviews and about having one sometime in 2019 after the one in 2018  
and not necessarily on the exact anniversary of the 2018 review  but he expected more of 
an annual process; he referred to an example of communication from SG which, he 
considers, displayed unprofessionalism in its inability to give a timeframe for the transfer 
process (three days after the relevant instruction) and displayed apathy in its approach at the 
time because he had already terminated its service.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider it helpful to begin with a particular part of Mr Ps complaint submissions, in which 
he expressly confirmed that his advisory portfolio manager had provided him with ongoing 
support and service during the complaint period. To Mr Ps credit, he has been consistent in 
this respect and he made a similar statement in response to the investigators findings. The 
inference I have drawn  reasonably, I consider  from this part of his complaint submissions 
is that the complainants do not wish to extend their complaint to the portfolio manager 
personally and/or they do/did not have a problem with him.If the above is correct, the balance of available documentary evidence explains why. There 
is ample evidence  in the form of many email exchanges and suitability reports  of very 
active portfolio (and SIPP) management by the portfolio manager during the complaint 
period. The arrangement had an advisory  not discretionary  basis, so investment/trading 
ideas and recommendations had to be put to Mr P first, for approval, before the portfolio 
manager could proceed to execute them. Many email exchanges between him and Mr P 
during the complaint period illustrate this arrangement in practice. Furthermore, these 
exchanges and the investments discussed within them are broadly matched by dedicated 
suitability reports for the recommended investments/trades (including liquidations and 
reinvestments) throughout the complaint period.
With such evidence, I could not reasonably find that the complainants were deprived of a 
portfolio management service. They were not deprived of such a service and, in fact, they 
received what appears to have been a very active and competent service in this respect  I 
make this finding only with regards to the service provision, the complainants have not 
alleged unsuitable advice from the portfolio manager so I have had no cause to consider this 
or to make a finding in this respect.
There is evidence of the review that happened in March 2018 and of the written review 
outcome sent to the complainants at the time. I have also seen a copy of the earlier 
suitability review/assessment conducted for the SIPP in 2017. Notably, the 2018 review 
outcome also featured the SIPP and a review of its suitability at the time. As the investigator 
said, the terms of service do not appear to provide separately for pension reviews. However, 
evidence shows that the SIPP was part of the annual review in 2018 and I am satisfied that it 
would have formed a part of the 2019 review, had that review happened.
Thus far, I am satisfied that SG provided the complainants with ongoing active portfolio and 
SIPP advisory management. The issue about annual reviews is related to this. The first point 
to note is that given the extent of engagement between the portfolio manager and Mr P 
during the complaint period, the volume of correspondence between them with regards to 
trading and investments in the portfolio and SIPP, and the number of dedicated suitability 
reports which covered the relevant recommendations made at the time (in addition to 
ongoing reviews of suitability in the reports), I consider that SG has made a fair argument 
that this served as a de facto, meaningful and active ongoing review arrangement in place 
for the complainants investments, irrespective of the formal annual review process. I agree 
with this argument. 
As I set out next, I find, on balance, that SG did nothing particularly wrong in terms of the 
formal annual review process. Even if this was not the case, it is unlikely that I would 
consider, overall, that it committed a wrongdoing, because it could be argued that the active 
ongoing portfolio management and reviews that happened during the complaint period made 
a formal review in 2019 somewhat redundant in real terms. I do not suggest that it would 
have been justified to deprive the complainants of an annual review service they were 
entitled to. That would not have been justified, but the point to note is that they essentially 
had the benefits of an ongoing version of such a review (throughout 2018 and most of 2019) 
in any case.
There is no dispute that SG offered the 2019 review in June 2019. The obligation was to 
provide a formal review annually and nothing in the terms of service say this had to happen 
on or before the anniversary of the last review. Evidence that has been shared with us 
suggests that respective holiday commitments for the portfolio manager, the private banker 
and for the complainants from late June 2019 and up to late August 2019 created a difficulty 
in arranging a suitable review meeting date for all at the time. In September 2019 it appears 
that SG suggested the date of 3 October but that was not convenient for the complainants. In early October 2019 SG then suggested further dates later in that month, but by then the 
complainants had decided to terminate its service.
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that the complainants were not deprived of their 
entitlement to a formal annual review in 2019, having already had such a review in 2018. 
The 2019 review was offered but through no fault on either side it just did not happen, and 
by the time more dates in October were offered the matter of a review had arguably been 
rendered irrelevant by the termination of SGs service.
The remaining matters to address are service from the private banker, the e-banking service, 
the absence of a NISA top-up reminder (from SG to the complainants), the effect of SGs 
staff turnover upon the complainants and the transfers of the portfolio and SIPP. 
As the investigator said, the private bankers role, as defined in the terms of service, is to be 
a point of contact for customers. Mr P has been critical of how the private banker took a 
reactive  and not proactive  approach during the complaint period. I consider it to be 
reasonably inherent within a point of contact official that s/he would be reactive, in response 
to contacts initiated and made by customers. I do not consider that the role extended to 
making unsolicited contact with customers, especially as discussion of investments was the 
remit of the portfolio manager, not the private banker. 
I have noted Mr Ps comparison with the private banking service he experienced prior to the 
complaint period. I consider his descriptions in this respect to be sincere and if, as it 
appears, the complainants had a more developed relationship with the previous private 
banker it is possible that they experienced much more of a personal service previously. I 
noted an indication of this in one of the internal correspondence between the previous 
private banker and the portfolio manager, in which the former updated the latter about 
having met with Mr P for tea at the time and about Mr P making comments about his SIPP 
which the private banker considered should be brought the portfolio managers attention. 
This depicts the sort of past proactive service that Mr P has argued about and a closer 
relationship between him and the previous private banker, but the fact remains that such a 
service was not  before or during the complaint period  the minimum he was entitled to. 
What the complainants were entitled to was a private banker as a point of contact, for 
contact that they initiated, and I have not seen evidence that they were deprived in this 
respect during the complaint period. Any service above this from their previous private 
banker (and at his discretion) would have been commendable, but it did not establish the 
minimum entitlement that the complainants appear to be arguing for.
SG concedes that its e-banking service had shortcomings during the complaint period and it 
has explained the improvements it applied to the service to address them. Like the 
investigator, I too note evidence of Mr Ps correspondence with SG highlighting problems he 
had with the service at different times. However, overall, SGs officials set out to assist him 
with those problems and the same evidence shows this  and shows Mr Ps feedbacks after 
some of the problems were resolved or where he was guided on ways around them. I 
acknowledge that the service ought reasonably to have been fit for purpose, so I can 
understand Mr Ps frustration with the experience he had, but it is also fair and reasonable to 
reflect the fact that SG mitigated the effects of that experience at the time by providing 
assistance to him upon his request. Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded to 
concluded that SG is liable for a wrongdoing in this matter.
I agree with the investigators comment that it could have been an element of good service 
from SG to provide unprompted NISA top-up reminders to the complainants. However, it 
says it did not provide such a service and I do not consider that was unreasonable, given the 
formal annual review arrangement that was in place. Evidence from the 2018 review shows 
that ISA related considerations were part of the review and I am persuaded that the same would have been the case in 2019, had a review meeting happened. The complainants 
could say this would have been a poor, or even pointless, substitute for a reminder ahead of 
the relevant 2018/19 ISA contribution deadline  which was much earlier than the review 
explored between June and October 2019. I can understand such a point, but it takes the 
matter back to the fact that SG did not provide a service for such unprompted reminders, so 
it cannot reasonably be held responsible for not giving such reminders.
In straightforward terms, I do not consider it appropriate to draw any findings in this case 
about SGs staff turnover, in isolation. I am also not persuaded to draw any such findings in 
relation to the overall service level complaint that the complainants have made. The 
individual points they have raised in their complaint have been/will be treated on evidence 
and merit. SG is the respondent to their complaint and if it is found that there has been a 
failure in service SG will be responsible for that. Whether (or not) staff turnover contributed 
to any such failure is not a matter that this service needs to be drawn into in this particular 
case. Thus far, and as I have treated above, I have not found SG responsible for the service 
failures alleged by the complainants.
Mr P says SG was wrong to have taken more than 72 hours to action his instruction, on 12 
November 2019, to liquidate part of his portfolio ahead of its outward transfer (with the 
remainder to be transferred in specie) and that it was wrong to have taken eight working 
days (up to 22 November 2019) to fully complete execution of his instruction (that is, the 
partial liquidation of the portfolio and settlement of a loan within it)  before transfer of the in 
specie element of the portfolio was embarked upon.
After Mr Ps instruction on 12 November, SG received contact from the receiving firm on the 
same date, essentially echoing Mr Ps instruction. On 13 November SG contacted the 
receiving firm to highlight that the portfolio stood as security for a loan of £750,000 so 
actioning the instruction to liquidate part of the portfolio and to transfer the proceeds would 
leave the loan without requisite security. SG needed instruction to settle the loan and none 
was given at the time. The receiving firm replied on the same date to say the liquidation 
proceeds should be enough to repay the loan. On 15 November SG contacted Mr P and 
asked for his authority to settle the loan from the liquidation proceeds and it also checked 
that he had been advised by the new firm about potential tax implications arising from the 
liquidation and loan repayment. Mr P replied on the same date with his authority to repay the 
loan and that was done.
Also on 15 November, and up to the update given to Mr P at 18:15 hours on the day, there 
had been ongoing liquidation action by SG as part of execution of his instruction. The 
example of what he considers to have been unprofessional correspondence from SG 
appears to have happened on this date too. The receiving firm asked for a timeline and SG 
said it could not give one at the time but it would advise once it had a clearer idea on 
timings. I can understand why Mr P could have expected more  perhaps reference to a 
standard timeline  but it appears to me that SG wanted to convey something that was more 
meaningful and it was not in a position to do so at the time. It has explained that it had yet to 
take a full view on timings, in the context of the nature of the portfolios components, and that 
the liquidation of different types of assets had potentially different settlement times. 
With regards to the eight working days Mr P is unhappy about, given that the majority of the 
first three days appears to have been consumed by the matter of repayment of the loan from 
the liquidation proceeds, and then mindful of the other work that was done to complete 
different settlements of the liquidations, on balance, I do not consider the process to have 
been unduly delayed. Importantly, I have not seen evidence of unexplained periods of 
inactivity in which SG was neither waiting for required instruction or information or due 
process, nor engaged in carrying out work related to the liquidation and transfer process.Mr P says that the transfer instruction that SG should have conveyed to his SIPP provider on 
3 December 2019 was not given until 10 December 2019, and the SIPP had been liquidated 
on 2 December, so this meant his SIPP was uninvested and out of the market for seven 
days longer than it needed to be  with a loss of market gains as a result.
I consider that there is some merit in Mr Ps criticisms in this matter, but not enough to 
establish a service failure or an unreasonable delay in the SIPP transfer or the financial loss 
he has referred to. It is not disputed that the SIPP portfolio was liquidated on 2 December. 
However, it appears that it took SG until 6 December to discuss with Mr P the need for 
approval from a senior banker, in direct discussion with Mr P, to instruct/process transfer of 
the proceeds  the size of the proceeds appears to have been beyond the approval authority 
held by the official he was speaking to at the time. It then transpired that no senior banker 
was available to talk to Mr P at the time, or over the weekend (on 7 and 8 December), so the 
matter was put forward to 9 December. SG acknowledges that Mr P was unhappy about this 
at the time. The official then explored an alternative, later on 6 December, in which Mr P 
would not need to speak to a senior banker and the SIPP provider could instead be 
instructed directly. Mr P agreed and this was done on 9 December, but a problem with the 
SIPP providers signatory list was not resolved until after the cut-off time for CHAPS 
payment on this date, so the payment/transfer took place on 10 December.
I acknowledge that Mr P would rightly question why it took until 6 December to discuss with 
him transfer of the portfolio liquidated on 2 December. I had the same query in considering 
the matter. However, I am satisfied with evidence that SG was taking a comprehensive 
approach towards all the liquidations and transfers it was engaged in  over six accounts for 
the complainants (including their respective NISAs and the SIPP)  and that when it 
contacted Mr P on 6 December it did so to give a comprehensive update on all the work 
being conducted at the time. In this context, I do not consider it fair to say SG indulged in 
unexplained inactivity during the four days between these two dates, but I do recognise that 
an earlier and isolated update on the SIPP would, in hindsight, have been a better approach. 
I note a part of SGs submission on the matter which appears to concede the same, by 
referring to the official apologising to Mr P during the call on 6 December for having not 
contacted him a couple of days earlier.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration at initially being led to believe a conversation with a 
senior banker was necessary for the process, only to thereafter discover the opposite. 
Having said this, the latter appears to have been discovered on the same day that he was 
initially led to believe the former  6 December. The alternative was proposed to appease his 
unhappiness about the senior banker not being available, and it was agreed at the time. The 
delay between 9 and 10 December appears to have been caused by the SIPP providers 
signatory list error.
Overall and on balance, I am not quite persuaded that Mr Ps SIPP was unduly taken out of 
the market for seven days by SGs wrongdoing  which is what he has alleged. As set out 
above, I consider that the conversation about the SIPP on 6 December should have taken 
place earlier, SG appears to agree it should have happened a couple of days earlier but I 
consider it should perhaps have taken place by 3 December, the day after the liquidation. 
The delay of one day between 9 and 10 December was not SGs fault. The net result is that 
SG could potentially have saved four days in the matter (between 3 and 6 December) had it 
had the discussion with Mr P on 3 December. Having said this, I still retain my finding that 
SG was not intentionally idle in this regard and it simply appears to have taken the approach 
of waiting for 6 December to give Mr P a comprehensive update on outstanding matters at 
the time. 
I also do not consider that there is evidence of financial loss or lost investment opportunity 
directly caused by SG not having the conversation with him until 6 December. I appreciate that a hypothetical argument could be made for such loss, but more than a hypothesis is 
usually needed to establish a case for financial loss and in this case I consider that he would 
need to show  which has not been shown  that specific reinvestments planned for the 
liquidation proceeds post-transfer were missed at the time or were made at less favourable 
prices at the time directly because of the four days that SG could have saved but did not. 
Overall and in the context set out above, I also do not consider that these four days that 
could potentially have been saved, but were not, are enough to conclude the service failure 
that has been alleged in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint from Mrs P and Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman