DRN-2799535
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them 
with a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 6 January 2020, Mr and Mrs M purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
covering them for holidays taken worldwide. The agreed start date of the policy was 6 
January 2020, with the end date being 5 January 2021. The premium charged for the policy 
was £300.75, after a discount of £75.18.
But, on 4 August 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes. Because of the coronavirus 
pandemic  and its impact on travel  they requested that Great Lakes cancel their 
insurance policy and provide them with a full cash refund for it.
Great Lakes didnt agree to provide Mr and Mrs M with any cash refund for the policy. Mr 
and Mrs M didnt think this was fair, so raised a complaint about how the matter had been 
handled.
Great Lakes looked into Mr and Mrs Ms concerns and said it wouldnt be providing them 
with a cash refund for their policy. It noted that Mr and Mrs M had benefitted from cover 
under their policy from its start date on 6 January 2020. And, it highlighted that the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy said that no refund would be provided, if the 14 day 
cooling-off period had elapsed when the policy was cancelled.
Instead, Great Lakes said it could offer Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata credit voucher, for the value 
of £84.03 towards;
A new annual multi trip policy. The policy would be a 15-month policy, for the price of 
a 12 month one, at the current market rates.
A deferred annual policy. Mr and Mrs M could purchase this 12-month policy, at the 
current market rates. And could then chose to start the cover any time within 12 
months of purchasing the policy.
A UK only annual multi trip policy, with, subject to terms and conditions, the potential 
to upgrade the destination on the policy at a later date.
Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was fair. They remained of the opinion they should be 
provided with a cash refund. Because they remained dissatisfied, they referred their 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 6 January 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs M first requested cancellation of 
the policy on 4 August 2020, to the end date of the policy on 5 January 2021.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. They said;
They hadnt been offered a voucher by Great Lakes  but to defer their policy already 
purchased, or to buy a new policy, and pay an additional sum towards it.
They hadnt been able to cancel their travel insurance policy at an earlier point, 
because they had a second trip booked, which had not been cancelled. And when 
that second trip was cancelled, they then looked to cancel the policy.  
The coronavirus pandemic should be considered as exceptional circumstances and 
therefore they should receive a cash refund under the terms of the policy. 
Great Lakes were seemingly benefitting from the situation  as Mr and Mrs M were 
tied in to purchasing another policy with it. 
Because Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs M.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs M wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy, and I do note they feel the circumstances here should be considered as exceptional, under the policy. But I dont think their reasons for cancelling the 
policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M were insured from 6 January 2020, when policy started, until they cancelled it, 
on 4 August 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips they took, up to 35 days in 
duration for Mr M, and 50 days in duration for Mrs M. I understand Mr and Mrs M have said 
they werent able to cancel their insurance before this point, given they had a further holiday 
booked, which had not yet been cancelled by its providers. But, whether Mr and Mrs M went 
on any trips or not, or were awaiting information on further trips, Great Lakes were covering 
the risk of a claim occurring before they contacted it to cancel the cover. And the premiums 
charged to them, reflected this. So, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes 
dont provide a refund for this period of cover.
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their policy on 4 August 2020. Because of the coronavirus 
pandemic, Mr and Mrs M were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim under 
their insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under the 
policy from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from 
that point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do 
think it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata 
refund, from 4 August 2020, to the policy end date of 5 January 2021. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel that the refund should be paid to them in cash. And that 
they werent offered a voucher. But Im satisfied a voucher was offered, with three options 
given to them, detailing what this voucher could be used for. I do think the voucher offered is
a fair alternative to a monetary refund here. I agree with the investigator that the terms of the 
voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs M arent unreasonably restrictive, as theyve 
been offered different options. They would be able to use it for other trips, whether in the UK 
or abroad, given the terms and conditions of the voucher  including the ability to defer it by 
12 months. 
Im also satisfied the value attached to the vouchers is fair and I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated Mr and Mrs M differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount 
from the date Mr and Mrs M first contacted Great Lakes about cancelling the policy  4 
August 2020, to the date the policy was due to end, 5 January 2021. This meant there would 
be 155 days of the policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to 
£84.03 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 
155 days after the policy was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont 
be requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decisionGiven the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr and Mrs M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman