DRN-2785714
The complaint
M, a limited company, is seeking to recover £12,744.35 from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays), which was stolen from its business banking account as a result of a third-party 
scam.
The owner of M, Mr G, is bringing the complaint on its behalf so I will refer to him 
throughout.
Barclays says it is not liable for the loss because Mr G unwittingly authorised the 
payment himself  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to 
recoup the money from the receiving bank once it had become aware of the scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr Gs business, M, has been the victim of a scam. 
Mr G was tricked into sending £12,744.35 to whom he thought was a business he had a 
long-standing agency relationship with and who he had made regular payments to before 
 which I will refer to as X. 
In May 2019, Mr G received numerous emails which appeared to come from X. The 
contents of these emails discussed an audit that X was going through, outstanding 
amounts owed by M and which account these outstanding amounts should be paid to. 
Mr G was asked to make a payment to an account that differed from the usual account 
he transferred to at X. The email including the updated account details appeared in a 
chain of conversation that Mr G had been responding to and appeared to come from a 
person he had previous contact with at X.  
So, on 21 May 2019, Mr G transferred the money as per the instructions he was sent in the 
email. He did so via online banking. He has told us he set up a new payee to make the 
payment.
However, some days later, Mr G was contacted by the genuine X who enquired when he 
was intending to make payment. It then came to light that X had not sent the emails 
containing the updated account details. And the payment had not been paid into their 
account. Mr G had fallen victim to a sophisticated scam - the email Mr G received was 
from a fraudster who had managed to send fake emails to Mr G  which looked just like 
genuine ones sent by X and which appeared to come from the same email address.
Mr G contacted Barclays to make them aware of the scam and Barclays raised an 
indemnity with the receiving bank the same day. However, the receiving bank confirmed 
that no funds remained in their account. Mr G also instructed his solicitors, who wrote to 
Barclays setting out why they believed M should be provided with a refund. Mr G and his 
representatives felt that Barclays couldve, and shouldve, done more to protect M from this 
type of fraud and that M should now be offered a refund under the recently introduced 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which Barclays was a signatory to. Mr 
G also contacted Action Fraud and the police.
During the course of the police investigation, Mr G was told that £6,000 of his money had 
remained with the receiving bank. Mr G was told to contact Barclays again and request a 
further indemnity be raised so this money could be returned to Ms account. Ultimately, 
both Mr G and the police contacted Barclays about raising a further indemnity to get this 
money returned but Barclays declined to contact the receiving bank again  reiterating that 
it had previously been told that the funds had already been removed from the account.
As a satisfactory resolution could not be reached, Mr G brought his complaint to our 
service. Mr G added that he felt Barclays failure to respond to letters from his solicitor was 
deliberate. Mr G told our investigator that his solicitors had sent detailed letters on 
numerous occasions and Barclays had failed to engage with these or even respond  
choosing to contact him directly instead despite him having requested contact via his 
solicitors only. 
Mr G went on to say that he had done his own research and it had become apparent to him 
that a system known as Confirmation of Payee (CoP) was due to be introduced across 
the banking industry but had been somewhat delayed. This system would tell customers 
who were making online transfers whether the name they had been given by the payee 
matched the name of the recipient account holder. Mr G said that without this, there was no 
way for a bank to cross-check whether a customers funds were being transferred to an 
account in the correct name. Mr G said he had assumed that when he entered the account 
name to make the payment now in question, this crosscheck was already taking place. Mr 
G has said that had he known this wasnt the case - specifically had he been informed of 
this by Barclays - he wouldve taken more steps to verify the payee account and the scam 
wouldve come to light and ultimately been prevented.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think M was 
entitled to a refund under the CRM Code as it was not in place at the time Mr G made the 
payment and it was not retrospective. And she made the same point in relation to the 
arguments Mr G had put forward in relation to CoP  it wasnt a system that was in place at 
the time so Barclays wouldnt have been able to check the account name that the funds 
were being transferred to. She didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to say Barclays 
shouldve done something that it wasnt in fact able to do at the time. She also didnt think 
the transaction Mr G made was unusual and out of character when compared to Ms usual 
account activity and so she didnt think there would have been a reason for Barclays to 
have questioned Mr G about the payment before they allowed it to leave Ms account 
either. 
The investigator went on to say that she had seen the messages shared between Barclays 
and the recipient bank and could see that the recipient bank had confirmed that no funds 
had remained in the account by the time they had been contacted by Barclays. She did, 
however, acknowledge that the recipient bank now appeared to have told the police 
something different. She told Mr G she intended to discuss this further with the receiving 
bank. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators findings. He put forward the following arguments:
He had received a text from Barclays asking him if he made a payment to X shortly 
after the payment was made. Mr G said this text message used the payee name he 
had entered into the online banking system. Mr G says this reinforced that the payee 
account name was legitimate. Mr G pointed out that it wouldve been relatively easy for Barclays to warn customers in this message that this was the name entered by 
the user and was not an indication of the actual account name. 
He should now receive interest on the £6,000 payment that was being held with the 
third-party bank as Barclays had failed to action his request to raise a further 
indemnity and M had continued to be without funds unnecessarily.
Whilst the payment now in question wasnt particularly unusual for the account, all 
the other payments made from the account were to existing payees.
He understood that Barclays didnt have a CoP facility in place at the time but as they 
were aware of a flaw in the UK banking system, they should have warned their 
customers of this failing. Mr G said it should be for this service to raise standards 
across the banking sector. 
Barclays had failed throughout the course of the investigation to engage with his 
solicitors and Mr G now wanted his legal costs refunded. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again and, in the main, her opinion remained the 
same. However, she had spoken to Barclays again and it had agreed to raise a further 
indemnity with the receiving bank - who had confirmed it was holding £6,000 on behalf of M.
Our investigator agreed with Mr G that this should have been done sooner and that Barclays 
should pay interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum. Barclays agreed and 
completed the necessary calculation. However, there was an error in the original interest 
calculation which was pointed out by Mr G. Barclays acknowledge the error, rectified it and 
paid a further £100 in compensation  which Mr G accepted on behalf of M.
However, as an overall agreement has still not been reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to M. I also have significant sympathy 
for the situation Mr G has found himself in. But having thought very carefully about what 
hes told us happened at the time and Barclays actions, Im not persuaded it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to hold Barclays liable for Ms loss. 
So, having considered everything, I wont be upholding Ms complaint. I do appreciate how 
disappointing this will be for Mr G, but I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays should 
reimburse him with the money his business has unfortunately lost to the scammers. Ill 
explain why.
Mr G has requested that Ms case be considered, and M be compensated, under the CRM 
Code. This is a voluntary scheme Barclays has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. However, the code didnt come into force until 
28 May 2019  a week or so after the payment in question here was made. As the code is 
not retrospective, it isnt applicable to Ms circumstances and Im not persuaded it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable under a code that wasnt in place at the time. 
And so Ive then gone on to think about what was in place at the time.In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of 
fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, 
have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before 
processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with M when Mr G transferred £12,744.35 to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Mr G authorised the payment himself. Because of this, Barclays had 
an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive 
explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive then thought about whether the transfer Mr G made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with Ms usual account activity. Ive reviewed Ms 
account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and Im not persuaded it 
was. M had made similar payments in the months prior to the scam. For example, M had 
completed the following transactions:
31 January 2019  a bill payment of £31,008.12
22 February 2019  a bill payment of £16,800
29 March 2019  a bill payment of £38,306.66
3 May 2019  a bill payment of £27,601.88
And so, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable for me to say that a payment of 
£12,744.35 was unusual for M  it had carried out very similar (and higher) transactions in 
the months before. Ive also thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. However, I dont find 
that a payment to a new payee is in itself suspicious enough to mean that Barclays 
shouldve considered that M was at risk of financial harm and contacted Mr G before it made 
the payment at his  request. 
It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that Barclays shouldve 
identified the payment Mr G made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks  
especially given that M had a relatively high outstanding balance and the account often made 
large payments. 
Ive also thought about whether Barclays couldve done more to help M once it was notified 
of the scam and following the police investigation  I think it could. Barclays contacted the 
receiving bank upon notification of the scam. But, unfortunately at this point, it was told Ms 
funds had already been removed by the scammer. And so, I understand why Barclays told 
Mr G this at the time. However, it later came to light that a £6,000 payment had been 
refunded back into the account - which is why the investigating police officer was told 
something different to Barclays. Despite being notified of this by both Mr G and the police, 
Barclays declined to engage with the updated information provided by the receiving bank 
and raise a further indemnity. And I think it should have done. Had it done so, Im 
persuaded that this amount wouldve been returned to M much sooner than it ultimately 
was. However, having said the above, I can see that Barclays has now paid M 
compensation for the amount of time it was without the funds. And as Barclays has already 
paid what I would look to recommend in these circumstances, I wont be recommending it 
pay anything further.  
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr G has said about Barclays failing to warn him, and 
other customers, that a Confirmation of Payee system was not in place at the time and that 
it could not verify whether the name of the account holder entered into its payment system 
matched the payee account name. And whilst I acknowledge that this system was due to 
come into place, there was no obligation for Barclays to inform its customers that it wasnt 
already. And I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Barclays to a standard that wasnt in 
place at the time. It is the Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA), the regulator of financial 
services in the UK, who are responsible for regulating the conduct of businesses and setting 
rules for businesses to follow, not the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The text message received by Mr G shortly after the payment in question was made was to 
highlight to Mr G that a new payee had been set up on the account and a payment made to 
it - should this activity have been unauthorised, the text message wouldve made Mr G 
aware of the unauthorised activity on his account, so the payment could be stopped and the 
account blocked. The purpose of this text message was not to confirm or reinforce that the 
correct payee name was being used although I appreciate this is what Mr G felt it did.
Finally, Ive thought about whether Barclays should be liable to pay Ms solicitors fees. But 
I dont think it should. It was Mr Gs choice to instruct legal representation and he couldve 
gone through Barclays complaint process and brought his complaint to this service 
without doing so. I appreciate that Mr G feels Barclays did not engage with the letters sent 
by his solicitors. However,  Barclays has said some letters were sent to addresses not 
used for incoming correspondence and it has apologised for not responding to those 
received. Ultimately, Im not persuaded that this has had a material impact on the 
outcome of this complaint. Had Mr Gs letters been received and responded to, Barclays 
position wouldve likely remained the same. And Mr G couldve brought his complaint to 
this service had he received a response or not  once the required amount of time had passed. So I wont be recommending that Barclays pay for services Mr G chose to instruct 
and ultimately pay for.  
I want to stress that my role in deciding this case is not to assign blame. Its clear that Mr G 
has unfortunately been a victim here. I am very sorry to hear about the situation he has 
found himself in. But at the same time, I dont think his and Ms loss was caused by any 
specific failing on behalf of Barclays. The fault here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the 
fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman