DRN-3396856
The complaint
Mr S complaint concerns the introduction by Britannia Global Markets Limited (BGM) of a 
monthly commission fee for his trading account. He considers the introduction of the fee to 
have been unfair and contrary to the terms of his agreement with BGM. He says it forced 
him to move to another broker, which created administrative problems, a loss of opportunity 
to trade and considerable distress and inconvenience.
What happened
On 28 April 2020 BGM wrote to Mr S and other customers to notify them of its intention to 
introduce a £500 minimum monthly commission fee for certain account types, of which 
Mr Ss account was one. BGM explained it was making the change pursuant to its terms, 
which required 10 business days written notice to be given for any changes to those terms. 
BGM confirmed the fee would be applied from 1 June 2020. So, if customers wished to close 
their accounts to avoid paying the fee, they should let BGM know by 15 May 2020 and, 
further, close all open positions or, if possible, transfer them to another broker, by 29 May 
2020. 
Mr S was very disappointed by BGMs decision to introduce the fee. He wrote to express his 
concerns on 30 April 2020 and proposed that he be allowed to maintain his four open 
positions with BGM up until (or maybe before, depending on market movements) their 
natural expiration on 19 June 2020. 
Mr S was referred to his account manager but over the course of subsequent 
correspondence it was confirmed that the requested extension wouldnt be possible. As 
such, he opted to open an account with an alternative broker and transfer his positions. 
However, there was then a problem with the receipt of an email Mr S sent to BGM on 21 
May 2020 confirming that his new account was open and ready to receive his positions. And 
further, when the transfers were eventually actioned, BGM was unable to complete one of 
them. 
This was particularly problematic for Mr S as the position in question was one of a pair that 
formed part of his ongoing trading strategy. Without it being transferred alongside its 
supporting position an unplanned margin call would be created with the new broker that he 
wouldnt be able to finance. Fortunately, with the help of the new broker, this was avoided 
and transferral of all four positions was eventually completed by early June.
Mr S made a formal complaint about the matter to BGM encompassing the introduction of 
the fee, the email receipt problem, and the transfer issue. BGM was satisfied it had 
introduced the fee fairly and in line with its terms and it didnt accept it was responsible in 
any way for the email problem. It did, however, uphold the complaint in part, in respect of the 
transfer issue and offered Mr S £750 compensation. 
Mr S didnt accept this. He felt the introduction of the fee, and the subsequent problems, had 
created uncertainty and a lack of confidence in BGM. A lack of clarity about how long any 
transfers might take to complete had left him reluctant to trade during May 2020 as he would 
otherwise have done if the changes and problems hadnt occurred. As such, he felt hed lost 
out on around £1,300 profit as well as experiencing distress and inconvenience, so a fair 
resolution would be for BGM to pay him a total of £2,000. 
The complaint was referred to this service. Our investigator concluded that the introduction 
of the fee had been fair and in accordance with the terms and, further, that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to support a finding that the email problems had been the fault of BGM.
He noted the issues with the transfer and felt BGM couldve done more to help Mr S. But 
overall, the investigator considered that its offer of £750 was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
In respect of the loss Mr S claimed, the investigator looked at the hypothetical trading he 
said he wouldve done if the issues hadnt arisen. But while acknowledging that the situation 
wouldve been frustrating, the investigator felt Mr S hadnt been prevented from trading 
during the period up until he transferred his positions. So, he didnt feel BGM should be held 
responsible for any potential loss of profit stemming from trades not being made. 
Mr S didnt accept this. He made further submissions supporting his arguments, but the 
investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. As such, the matters been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should note first that the background to the complaint set out above is only a brief synopsis 
of what occurred, and the arguments made. Its clear Mr S has strong feelings about the 
matter, and hes provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. 
However, I trust he wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them.
As has been noted, there are three main elements to Mr Ss complaint  the introduction of 
the fee, the issue of BGM not receiving his emails, and the problems transferring his 
positions. Ill address each of these in turn. 
The fee  
I understand Mr Ss disappointment and frustration at receiving BGMs email of April 2020 in 
which it explained its plans to introduce the fee. This was a significant change, particularly 
given it wasnt an increase to an existing charge but rather the imposition of a completely 
new one of a magnitude that would impact greatly on his trading plans. Its not surprising 
therefore that it led to him wanting to move to a different, cheaper service.  
But it does appear that the introduction of the fee was a change BGM was entitled to make. 
Its pointed to the relevant clause in its terms - 
The Firm may change the terms of this Agreement immediately upon giving written notice 
where required.... by giving at least ten Business Days' Applicable written notice to the Client and any change will take effect on the date specified in the notice
I note Mr S has questioned which contract applied to his account because thered been 
various changes made to the structure of the business since he opened his account in 2018 
with a predecessor business. But the change provision applied in all the contract iterations 
and its quite usual for such agreements to include this type of provision, to enable a 
business to modify its service over time. 
That said, however, its important any changes made that rely upon the provision are carried 
out in a fair and reasonable manner. In that respect, I note that BGM provided more than the 
required ten business days notice, giving Mr S and other customers just over a month  until 
the end of May 2020  to move elsewhere. And I think that was a prudent decision given the 
significance of the change and its likely impact. 
Its also clear that there was no requirement that any positions be closed  the initial email 
explained they could be transferred, and this was reconfirmed to Mr S by his account a 
manager a few days after he made his initially query. And ultimately that is what Mr S was 
able to do, albeit with the issues mentioned, which Ill deal with in more detail below.       
The emails 
Mr S emailed the generic operations email address (provided by BGM in its original notice 
about the fee) on 21 May 2020 to confirm hed be closing his account and to say that his 
new one was open and ready to receive the transfer of his positions. 
He received a bounce back message, so contacted his account manager, who asked Mr S 
to forward the message to him. He did so, but it appears there were further problems that 
meant the email wasnt received and this didnt come to light until the following week when 
Mr S chased the matter up.
I can understand this wouldve been frustrating for Mr S, coming in the midst of him having to 
change account and transfer the positions. But I dont think theres enough for me to 
conclude it was an error on BGMs part. I note the information Mr S has provided to support 
his view that it was an IT problem causing his emails to be blocked and therefore an issue 
on BGMs side. But Im unable to conclude that this proves conclusively that there was a 
problem with BGMs system. And in any event, while the problem may have delayed 
matters, ultimately the message was eventually received by BGM and the transfers 
arranged, but with the aforementioned problems, which Ill address below.        
The transfers
BGM has accepted that there were operational issues that meant that one of Mr Ss 
positions couldnt initially be transferred. And as noted, it partly upheld his complaint in this 
respect. 
Coming on top of the need to move accounts and the problem with the receipt of his emails, 
again I can understand how this transfer issue wouldve further compounded Mr Ss 
dissatisfaction with the situation. Particularly as BGMs initial reaction was to suggest that he 
simply leave the position with BGM, past the deadline of the end of May (which is, of course, 
what Mr S had initially asked to do with all his positions). And further, because of the 
imbalance this wouldve created, as Mr Ss trading strategy of paired positions meant 
thered have been an unplanned margin requirement for the other position of the pair that 
had been moved to the new provider.
Fortunately, this problem was sorted out with the assistance of the new provider and completion of transfer of both pairs of positions was completed by 5 June 2020. As Ive said, 
I fully accept that this created unnecessary stress for Mr S on top of the existing upheaval. 
But in all the circumstances I think the £750 offered in respect of this issue represents fair 
and reasonable compensation.        
Lastly, Ive carefully considered what Mr S had said  and the detailed related information 
hes provided  concerning the loss he feels he incurred as a result of the matter. 
Hes argued that the two pairs of positions he had in place with BGM at the point it told him 
about the introduction of the fee were part of his usual trading strategy. And, given the 
market movements after 28 April 2020, if it hadnt been for the issues and uncertainty 
created by BGM he wouldve traded during the first few weeks of May 2020 and achieved 
profit of just over £1300. 
As Ive already noted, I can understand Mr Ss frustration with the introduction of the fee and, 
further, how his view of the matter wouldve deteriorated as he encountered the additional 
issues described above. But in respect of a lost trading opportunity, Im conscious that the 
additional issues didnt arise until 21 May 2020. 
The proposed pattern of trading Mr S feels he was prevented from carrying out wouldve 
occurred during the period 30 April 2020 to 19 May 2020. So, prior to when he confirmed his 
account closure and transfers, and the administrative issues began. Mr S has said that the 
reason he didnt trade during these weeks was because he didnt know how he might be 
restricted by instigating the transfers, as it wasnt clear how long they would take to 
complete. He received conflicting information as to whether it would be an overnight process 
or, as BGM indicated, take a few days. 
I appreciate why he mightve been concerned in this way. But ultimately, its the case that he 
didnt instigate the transfers until 21 May 2020 and there wasnt anything actually preventing 
him from trading before this. Even if he was concerned that the transfers  whenever they 
were eventually instigated  could take days, he still had several weeks with BGM before he 
was required to move to the new account.   
As such, I dont think I can reasonably hold BGM responsible for any loss incurred during 
this period as a result of Mr S not trading. So, in conclusion, I confirm my view that the £750 
offered by BGM is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
As an aside, I note that Mr S did incur some costs for transferring his positions, totalling £50, 
which I wouldnt generally have expected to be applied in these sorts of circumstances. But 
Im not directing BGM to refund these costs as Im satisfied the level of compensation 
offered is sufficient that it can be considered to take them into account. 
My final decision
Britannia Global Markets Limited has already made an offer to pay £750 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Britannia Global Markets Limited should pay Mr S £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 James Harris
Ombudsman