DRN-3033617
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
  
What happened
In October 2019 Mr G acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement.
Mr G says he began to experience intermittent faults with the keyless go entry system and 
the entertainment system in November 2019. He took the vehicle back to the dealership in 
January 2020 where a software reset was performed.  
The faults continued intermittently, and Mr G complained to MBFS about the quality of the 
car. He sent them video evidence of the faults occurring before and after the repair and 
asked to reject the vehicle. 
MBFS said the dealership couldnt find a fault but had completed the software reset as good 
practice. They arranged for an inspection of Mr Gs vehicle. 
MBFS sent their final response to Mr Gs complaint in February 2020. They said the 
inspection had found no fault so Mr G couldnt reject the vehicle as there was no evidence it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G bought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr G. They didnt feel there was enough evidence that the car was faulty, and so 
they thought that the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr G. 
Mr G doesnt agree. He says hes provided video evidence of the fault, and as its 
intermittent, its possible that the fault wasnt occurring when it was inspected. 
Mr G contacted MBFS in September 2020 to say he was still experiencing intermittent faults 
with the entertainment system and a number of other electronic systems in the car. Hed 
taken the vehicle to a dealership in July 2020 and they hadnt been able to recreate the 
faults. Mr G provided pictures of the faults to MBFS. 
MBFS responded to Mr G in September 2020 to say that the faults in the pictures hed 
provided could be due to dirty sensors, and the temperature gauge wouldnt read correctly 
whilst the car was stationary. They still didnt think there was evidence of a fault with the 
vehicle. 
Mr G took the car to the dealership in November 2020, where faults were found with the 
entertainment unit, active lane assist, the instrument cluster and keyless entry system. The 
dealer performed software updates and cleared the fault codes, with all items noted as fully 
operative after a road test. 
Mr G told us in January 2021 that after the software updates, the faults had started again. 
He wishes to reject the vehicle. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. MBFS as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history.
 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired brand new with a cash price of around £29,000. With this in 
mind, I think a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a 
second-hand, more road-worn vehicle and that it could be used, free from even minor 
defects, for a considerable period of time.
Ive seen video evidence supplied by Mr G of a fault with the entertainment system both 
before and after repairs were completed in January 2020, and pictures of the fault from 
September 2020. Mr G has also supplied a report from November 2020 when the faults were 
identified by the dealer and repairs were undertaken. 
It seems that these repairs fixed the fault for a period of time, but Mr G says the issues arose 
again in January 2021 and are still ongoing. 
Our investigator asked Mr G for evidence of the ongoing fault, and hes provided a video 
taken in July 2021 which shows the fault with the entertainment system occurring. 
From the information supplied, Ive no doubt that the vehicle experienced an intermittent 
issue over several months up to November 2020. Its implausible to think that Mr G wouldve 
kept reporting the same problems if they hadnt occurred, and they were confirmed in the 
diagnostic report carried out in November 2020. The issues identified at this inspection were 
the same as those reported by Mr G from January 2020. Whilst these werent identified in 
previous inspections, I appreciate that the nature of an intermittent fault is that its not always 
easy to demonstrate. Its possible that the conditions under which the fault presented itself 
werent met at the time of the inspections prior to November 2020. 
So, Im persuaded that Mr G experienced intermittent faults with the vehicle from November 
2019. 
Mr G has provided evidence that these faults are ongoing. The video provided from July 
2021 shows the same fault, and Im persuaded that this wasnt fully rectified in the 
November 2020 repair, and that there is an ongoing intermittent fault with the vehicle. 
All things considered, I dont think a reasonable person would expect a brand-new vehicle to 
have an intermittent fault with the entertainment system. Im persuaded by the evidence that 
the fault has been occurring for some time, and from shortly after Mr G acquired the vehicle. 
I think a reasonable person would expect a new vehicle to be free from even minor defects, for a considerable period of time. So, Im persuaded that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied to Mr G. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, MBFS should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  
Mr G has been experiencing an intermittent fault with the vehicle since November 2019. 
There have been a number of software resets completed on the vehicle, along with more 
extensive repairs completed in November 2020 which havent solved the problem. Its not 
clear what repairs will be required to return the vehicle to a satisfactory condition, how long 
they will take or whether they will be successful and long lasting. So, its likely that Mr G will 
be put to significant inconvenience, in addition to that which hes already experienced, in 
arranging a repair when its not clear that it will be successful and further work and time 
might then be required to return the car to a satisfactory state. It would also mean that Mr G 
has to wait for an unknown period of time before he is able to drive his car fault free. 
All things considered, I think Mr G should be allowed his final right to reject the vehicle. This 
means that the car is collected from Mr G, the finance agreement is brought to an end, and 
Mr G has his £500 deposit refunded (plus interest). The agreement and any adverse 
information should be removed from Mr Gs credit file. 
Mr G has had use of the vehicle throughout the complaint, so I think its fair that he is 
responsible for the cost of his monthly payments toward the agreement. 
Mr G has been put to inconvenience in attempting to demonstrate the fault, and in taking the 
vehicle for a number of repairs to attempt to resolve it. I find MBFS should pay Mr G £200 in 
compensation to reflect this inconvenience. 
MBFS accepted my provisional decision.
 
Mr G responded to my provisional decision with a number of points, which Ive summarised 
as follows: 
The repair in November 2020 didnt fix the fault until January 2021. The fault 
reoccurred a week later, but Mr G doesnt have video evidence of this because the 
investigator wasnt persuaded by his previous video footage. 
The deposit paid was £750, not £500. 
Mr G says he experienced loss of use and loss of enjoyment of the vehicle, and he 
paid extra for the features that were faulty when he acquired the vehicle, so some of 
his monthly payments should be refunded to reflect this.   What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the November 2020 repair didnt rectify the fault, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, Im persuaded that there is an ongoing intermittent fault with the 
vehicle.
Mr G has provided invoices for a total payment made of £1249 for a deposit. There is a £500 
deposit on the vehicle invoice, and a further payment of £749 for tyres and smart repair 
insurance, and Supagard. Mr G has explained that he made the £749 payment separately 
due to invoicing errors at the dealership. 
Mr G has received a refund for the insurance products, leaving a shortfall of £250 for the 
Supagard product. Im persuaded by the evidence that this should have been included on 
the vehicle invoice receipt, and therefore form part of the deposit paid by Mr G, and so 
MBFS should refund a total of £750 for Mr Gs deposit. 
Mr G has asked for some of his monthly payments to be refunded to reflect the loss of 
enjoyment of the vehicle. Ive seen evidence that Mr G paid for some additional features 
when he acquired the vehicle, and that some of these were involved in the faults he 
experienced. Mr G has also suffered some loss of enjoyment of the vehicle when the 
entertainment system wasnt working. 
Ive considered whether MBFS should refund part of Mr Gs monthly payments to reflect the 
loss of enjoyment, but Im not persuaded they should. The monthly payments reflect the use 
Mr G had of the vehicle, and he was able to use and drive it throughout. He hasnt suffered a 
loss of use of the vehicle. However, I think an increase in the compensation amount is 
warranted to reflect the loss of enjoyment Mr G experienced, and so I find that MBFS should 
pay Mr G a total of £350 compensation to reflect both the inconvenience and the loss of 
enjoyment.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr G
Refund Mr Gs deposit of £750 
Pay Mr G £350 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused and 
the loss of enjoyment.
Remove the finance agreement from Mr Gs credit file. 
MBFS should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman