DRN-3248237
The complaint
Mrs J complains that a car acquired with finance from First Response Finance Ltd (FR) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs J was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with FR. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and had covered 31,662 
miles.
A few months into the agreement, Mrs J experienced engine failure. The engine was 
replaced under warranty.
Mrs J says she had only covered around 1000 miles after getting the car back following 
repairs when the engine failed a second time. She took the car back to the supplying dealer, 
but it refused to help, and said the issue had been caused by Mrs J using the gearbox to 
slow down the car, causing the engine to over revv and causing the con rods to go thought 
the engine.
Mrs J arranged an inspection of the car at a third-party garage. The inspection found that the 
engine failure had been caused by debris in the engine, probably caused by spark plug 
failure on cylinder 2, and not by driver style.
Mrs J complained to FR and asked it to cover the cost of repairs. FR responded and said it 
wouldnt accept responsibility for the repairs because it hadnt seen conclusive evidence that 
the car was faulty at the point of supply. As a gesture of goodwill, FR offered Mrs J the 
opportunity to scrap the car and pay the scrappage funds to them, in return for which it 
would write off the remaining balance under the agreement.
Mrs J wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She wants a refund  of 
her deposit and all payments shes made under the agreement.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he thought the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality because Mrs J had experienced engine failure twice in nine months. The investigator 
said that he hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that the engine failed due to driver style 
and said that the engine specialists report stated that the engine failure hadnt been caused 
by driver style.
FR didnt agree. It said it had spoken to the main dealer, who said that based on its 
inspection of the car, the repairs shouldnt have been covered under the warranty the first 
time the engine failed. FR also said it doubted the impartiality of the engine specialists report 
because it had contacted them after it issued its final response to challenge its decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car  such 
as that supplied to Mrs J  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more 
regularly than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car, rather than a fault which developed 
due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If 
the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. 
The first fault occurred within 6 months of the point of supply. Mrs J had covered around 400 
miles since the point of supply when the engine first failed. The supplying dealer replaced 
the engine under warranty. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the supplying dealer 
suggested that the engine had failed because of driver style prior to the repair. If the 
supplying dealer had thought that this was the case, I dont think it would have carried out 
repirs under warranty. I appreciate that the supplying dealer has since stated that the engine 
failure was caused by driver style and that it doesnt believe it shouldve carried out the 
repairs under warranty. However, I havent seen any engineering evidence to suggest that 
the engine failure was caused by driver style on either the first or second occasion of engine 
failure, so Im not persuaded by the supplying dealers comments in this respect.
I can see that Mrs J experienced further issues with the engine inn September 2021. Since 
the engine was repaired, Mrs J had only covered around 1400 miles. Ive taken the 
supplying dealers comments into account but as Ive said above, I dont find them to be 
persuasive. Ive also taken the engine specialists report into consideration. This says the 
engine failure has been caused by debris in the engine and not by driver style. It says that if 
the issue had been caused by driver style i.e. over revving or gear mis-shift, all of the 
cylinders would have been damaged, whereas the damage was only found on one cylinder. 
The engine specialist concluded that the failure had been caused by spark plug failure.
FR has said that the engine specialist isnt impartial. I havent seen anything which caused 
me to suspect this. Theres no evidence that the engine specialist isnt independent. Even if 
the specialist did make contact with FR after FR issued its final decision, I dont think this is 
enough to persuade me that the report isnt credible as a source of engineering evidence.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car. The supplying 
dealer had the opportunity to carry out repairs  and did so  but the engine failed a second 
time only a few months later, so Im persuaded that the repairs werent successful. Theres 
no evidence to suggest that the engine failed because of the way Mrs J drive the car. The 
specialist engine report excludes this as a cause of engine failure and provides a clear 
explanation as to why this could not be the case. Taking everything into account, Im of the 
view that the car had a fault at the point of supply which led to engine failure, and the repairs 
which were carried out werent successful which led to the engine failing again. Under the 
relevant legislation, Mrs J should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
To put things right, FR must allow Mrs J to reject the car. it should refund the deposit and 
refund all payments made by Mrs J since September 2021, because she hasnt been able to use the car since this date. FR should also refund Mrs J the cost of the engine specialist 
report, provided that Mrs J can provide an invoice detailing the cost.
Its clear that Mrs J has been caused a significant degree of distress and inconvenience as a 
result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think its fair to ask 
FR to pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. First Response Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs J
Refund the deposit of £2000 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Refund all payments made by Mrs J since September 2021
Refund the cost of the specialist report
Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Js credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman