DRN-3907105
The complaint
Miss C complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook) was 
irresponsible to lend to her on two occasions.
Miss C has brought her complaint to us via complaints management company but, for
simplicity, Ill refer to her throughout.
What happened
Oakbrook agreed two loans for Miss C. The first was for £2,000 agreed in May 2020, the
second was also for £2,000 agreed in July 2022. The first loan was to be repaid over three 
years with monthly repayments of £110. Miss C settled this early in February 2022. The 
second loan was to be repaid over two years with repayments of £123 and is still ongoing.
Miss C said that Oakbrook was irresponsible to lend to her because of the adverse
information on her credit file.
Oakbrook didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. It said that it carried out an income and
expenditure assessment when she applied for her loans and found they would be affordable
for her. Oakbrook checked Miss Cs credit file and found that she had no recent defaulted
accounts or county court judgements and wasnt overindebted.
Miss C referred her complaint to us and before our investigator reviewed the complaint,
Oakbrook got in touch to say it had reviewed it and were now willing to uphold Miss Cs
complaint about her first loan. It offered to refund the interest and charges Miss C had paid
and remove all negative information from her credit file about the loan.
Our investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint about her second loan and didnt
recommend that it be upheld. They found that Oakbrook carried out proportionate checks
which didnt raise any concerns and concluded that it wasnt irresponsible to lend on the
basis of the information it had.
Miss C didnt agree with this conclusion and asked for her complaint to come to an
ombudsman for a review and it came to me. I sent out a provisional decision on the 
14 December 2022 explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Cs complaint about her second 
loan and setting out my proposals for putting things right for her.
I allowed some time for both parties to provide comments on my conclusions and redress 
proposals or provide any new information for me to consider when making my final decision 
on the complaint. Neither party had anything further to add. 
As before, I havent investigated what happened when Miss C first borrowed from Oakbrook 
as it has decided to uphold her complaint about this first loan and so its no longer in dispute. 
This final decision deals with Miss Cs complaint about her second loan, agreed in 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and having no new information to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings and am upholding Miss Cs complaint. Ill set out again 
my reasons for doing so in this final decision on the matter. 
As before, Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending 
(set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Oakbrook, need to 
abide by. Oakbrook will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out 
on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise and refer 
to them where appropriate.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Oakbrook needed to check that Miss C could afford
to meet her repayments out of her usual means for the term of the loan. This means she
should be able to make her repayments without having to borrow further, while meeting
existing commitments and without experiencing adverse consequences. The checks
Oakbrook carried out needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount
borrowed or the term, for example) and to Miss Cs particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that Oakbrook needed to pay due regard to Miss Cs
interests and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as
targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Oakbrook complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Cs application for her second loan to satisfy
itself that she would be able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse
consequences? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and,
ultimately, did Oakbrook make a fair lending decision?
The income and expenditure assessment Oakbrook carried out when Miss C applied for her
second loan in July 2022 records that her salary was £35,000, giving her a monthly income
of £2,289 (assuming she wasnt contributing to a pension or had any other deductions).
Miss Cs monthly expenses came to £1,602. £533 of this was spent on repaying existing
debt. Oakbrook said it sense-checked what Miss C said about her income using an online
open banking tool which gave it confidence her income was as shed said. It used national
datasets to estimate Miss Cs expenses along with information from her credit file. The credit
file information provided by Oakbrook shows that Miss C had debts of £18,500 and a
defaulted debt of over £3,000 which was almost two years old.
As Oakbrook will know, it needed to have regard to information which might indicate that a
customer is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to experience, financial difficulty. While
the above assessment shows Miss C would likely be able to meet her repayments, it also
shows that agreeing this loan for her would mean shed need to spend 29% of her declared
income on repaying debt, which is a sizeable proportion. Oakbrook also knew that Miss C
had problems meeting her repayments on time for her first loan  the statement of account
shows Miss Cs direct debit was unpaid 12 times, the last two instances were in February 
2022. She did catch up with her payments usually within a month and I havent seen any
customer contact notes to understand the details of what happened.
On balance, I think Oakbrook should have been concerned enough to have looked further
into Miss Cs circumstances and verified her means before lending to her again. I appreciateit sense-checked her income but I cant see that it verified what she was earning or
investigated what her expenses were. Ive concluded that Oakbrook didnt carry out a
proportionate check.
Miss C has provided her bank statements from the time. Im not suggesting this was the
information Oakbrook should have relied on but in the absence of anything else, I think its
reasonable for me to rely on this to gain an understanding of what Miss Cs finances were
like when she applied for her second loan and to come to a view on what proportionate
checks might have revealed.
I can see from the statements that Miss Cs income was lower than shed said at around
£2,000 and she was in receipt of child benefit at about £87 a month. Her regular expenses
came to at least £635 excluding food and petrol costs which could reach £350 a month.
Miss Cs debts were higher than Oakbrooks estimate at about £625 including repaying a
short term and a home credit loan, and overdraft fees. Additionally, Miss C was making a
regular monthly payment of £295 to someone referenced loan which Ive assumed was her
repayment for a personal loan. This takes her total debt repayments to £920 and means
Miss C would need to spend half her income each month repaying debt. Shed also be left
with about £60 to meet any unexpected or unaccounted for expenses such as child-related
costs, clothing or toiletries, for example. The bank statements show many unpaid direct
debits  in June, for example, Miss Cs direct debits for her rent, car hire purchase and utility
bills were returned unpaid.
I think its likely that Oakbrook would have learnt through a proportionate check that Miss C
wasnt in a position to be able to repay another loan without difficulty. Ive concluded that it 
was irresponsible to have lent to her on this occasion.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that Oakbrook was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Miss C a second
time and so she shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or charges associated with the loan
agreed in 2022. For completeness Ive also included here what Oakbrook offered to do to
resolve Miss Cs complaint about her first loan.
To put things right for Miss C, Oakbrook should:
a) refund all interest, fees and charges that she paid on the loan agreed in May 2020 
along with 8% simple interest per annum* on these overpayments from the date they 
were paid until the date this complaint is settled; and
b) remove any adverse information about this loan from her credit file; and
c) cap the amount Miss C has to repay on the second loan agreed in July 2022 to the 
capital she borrowed, in other words £2,000.
d) Oakbrook can use the refund calculated in a) to offset the outstanding capital debt for 
Miss Cs second loan and:
if the refund more than covers the capital amount owing then Oakbrook needs 
to refund the surplus to Miss C; or
if a capital balance remains outstanding, then Oakbrook needs to treat Miss C 
fairly and with forbearance and due consideration regarding this, which may 
mean coming to an affordable repayment plan with her.
e) remove any negative information about this second loan from Miss Cs credit file 
once settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakbrook to take off tax from this interest. Oakbrookmust give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Oakbrook didnt specifically mention this compensatory interest in its offer letter for the first
loan  I have assumed it intends to pay Miss C along the lines of our usual approach, which
is to include an amount of 8% simple interest per annum on overpayments to reflect the fact
the Miss C shouldnt have been without these funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Miss Cs complaint about Oakbrook Finance
Limited trading as Likely Loans and propose it takes the above steps to put things right for 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman