DRN-2669174
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund disputed transactions 
made from his account. 
What happened
Mr F had a personal account with NatWest.
On 23 October 2019 Mr F noticed that someone had used the direct debit guarantee to 
request payments back into his personal account. These payments were credited back to his 
account and then moved, via bank transfers set up with online banking, out of his account to 
third parties. In total Mr F disputes £50,000 of direct debit indemnity payments. This left him 
in arrears with his mortgage and car payments. Mr F said that he was in danger of having his 
vehicle and house repossessed.
Mr F told us that at the time of the disputed transactions he had been in hospital because of 
a motor cycle accident and was unable to deal with his finances.
The bank has said they acted on requests to provide indemnity payments on multiple direct 
debits that Mr F had claimed were incorrectly taken. These included direct debits to his 
mortgage and his car payments.
Mr F says these calls were not made by him and he believes that a friend or family member 
may have accessed his home where he kept his security information in a notebook.
Mr F complained to the bank. They said they acted on his instructions. And didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr F came to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt 
uphold it. He thought Mr F had authorised the transactions. He didnt think Mr Fs version of 
events was plausible. And he worried that Mr F hadnt been truthful about his hospital stay 
and injuries resulting from the motor cycle accident. This meant he didnt think much weight 
should be put on Mr Fs version of events. He also mentioned that Mr F was in arrears with 
his mortgage and the car payments well before the direct debit refund requests were made. 
So, he didnt think the refunds had played a part in the repossessions. 
Mr F was unhappy with our investigators view. He said our investigator should have 
concentrated his attention on the voice records as it would show Mr F never made those 
requests. And hed not been in arrears on either his mortgage or car payments before the 
fraud. The car was repossessed after the direct debit payments were fraudulently reclaimed. 
He was unhappy that he thought our investigator insinuated he had acted fraudulently. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am minded to reach a 
similar conclusion as that reached by the investigator but I wanted to expand on the reasons.
Following the investigators view, we reached out again to the mortgage company to check 
whether Mr F had been in arrears until the direct debit indemnity claims. They confirmed that 
Mr F wasnt in arrears until the fraudulent direct debit indemnities started. 
Originally Mr F said he had been in hospital for many months without access to his bank 
account, giving a third-party fraudster ample time to carry out the fraud. However, Ive seen 
evidence supplied by Mr F which shows that although unwell he was treated as an outpatient 
and lived in his home during the time of the alleged fraud. 
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr F liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the correct security details were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own enough to enable NatWest to hold Mr F liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr F consented to the transactions 
being made. 
From what Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude Mr F authorised 
the transactions. I say this because: 
The direct debit refunds were set up on the phone with the bank. Ive listened to the 
calls with the bank and although I agree with Mr F that it wasnt him that made the 
calls, the caller had all the details they needed to set up the refunds including Mr Fs 
customer number and his PIN or password details. I cant see how someone would 
have got access to these details without Mr Fs knowledge.
The direct debit refunds credited Mr Fs account and the money immediately left the 
account leaving it with a small balance and in some cases an overdraft balance. The 
bank has provided evidence that three of the payees were new payees set up on 
19 June 2019, soon after the first direct debit refund request. Mr F has provided us 
with little information about who these payments were to. He has simply said they are 
not payees he recognises. 
I have looked at copies of his bank statements for that period and some of the 
payees who benefited from the direct debit refunds were existing payees and known 
accounts. So, I cant see why a fraudster would use an account that Mr F has 
previously used.
The only benefit to the fraudster would be if the money left Mr Fs account and 
credited the fraudsters accounts. The payments to the new payees out of Mr Fs 
account were made using the mobile app. This means that either Mr Fs phone was 
used to make the transfers which he disputes or someone else must have 
downloaded the mobile app onto another device. I cant see how Mr F could have 
been unaware that someone was using his phone to carry out these payments. And if 
someone else had downloaded the App and tried to access Mr Fs account he would 
have been alerted of this by the banks systems.Mr F was at home and not unwell in hospital. He has provided us with copies of 
letters that were sent from his mortgage company informing him he was in arrears 
and statements from the bank, for the period after the fraud was committed. These 
letters are from September 2019. I have also seen copies of letters sent by his 
mortgage provider alerting Mr F that he was in arrears with his mortgage. Some of 
these letters date back to May and June 2019. In July 2019 a letter was sent telling 
him his property was at risk of being repossessed. As Mr F was getting letters 
suggesting he was now in arrears for payments to his mortgage and other providers, 
he would have been alerted of the fraud. Given this, I find it implausible that he 
wouldnt have contacted the bank or his mortgage company until the 23 October 
more than three months after the fraud occurred.
 
In order for a fraudster to carry out the fraud they must have known many details 
about Mr F. These details were needed to ask the bank to set up the direct debit 
refunds, as well as details to set up new payees. Although Mr F has said he had his 
banking information written in a notebook it isnt clear how an unknown fraudster 
would have had access to the notebook and Mr Fs banking information. Mr F hasnt 
given us an explanation about this.
Mr F has told us that during this time he lived with his wife. He has also told us that 
his wife didnt have access to his account information.
Since Mr F was at home, it would have made it harder for an unknown third-party 
fraudster to get hold of Mr Fs banking information without his knowledge to 
perpetrate the fraud. Having Mr F around and not ill in hospital would make the task 
of accessing his account online much more difficult.
Mr F has insisted that it wasnt him that made the calls to NatWest to ask for refunds 
of the direct debits. As Ive mentioned Ive listened to the calls and I have also 
listened to the call that Mr F made to our service. Having done so I think its unlikely 
the person who made the call to our service and the person who made the calls to 
the bank are the same person. I have then considered whether this means Mr F 
didnt authorise the direct debit transactions as he claims. Having thought about this 
and considered the evidence, I think Mr F consented to the transactions by passing 
his details to a third party, I think its likely a third party known to him was making 
these transactions because of the amount of information and access to his account 
and his phone that was needed in order to carry out this fraud.
Despite the seriousness of the situation Mr F hasnt been in touch with the fraud 
team at NatWest to discuss the fraud. The bank have said theyve asked Mr F to 
identify the transactions that are in dispute and the transfers that he is claiming are 
fraudulent but Mr F hasnt done so. I find it implausible that he wouldnt reach out to 
the bank to provide them with as much information as needed to help in the fraud 
investigation.
Mr F has told us that he wrote the details of his accounts in a notebook and he thinks 
that either family members or friends were able to get access to these details to 
perpetrate the fraud. I think it unlikely that all these details were in a notebook and 
that a fraudster got access to it without Mr F noticing. 
Mr F has said that it doesnt make sense for him to have requested a refund of his 
mortgage payments as he is in arrears now and was threatened with eviction as a 
result. I appreciate what Mr F is saying but it doesnt change the other facts of the case. A fraudster would have needed access to his phone, online banking and 
telephone banking security in order to carry out the fraud on his account.  
I find it surprising that Mr F hasnt provided much information and the information 
hes provided contradicts what hes told us about his hospital stay. Had Mr F been in 
hospital then the issues around access to his phone and bank details as well as 
delays in contacting the bank about the fraud would have made sense.
Based on everything Ive seen I think its fair and reasonable for NatWest to refuse to refund 
the disputed direct debit refunds because overall, I think its more likely than not Mr F 
authorised the transactions he disputes.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F has said he is unhappy with the provisional decision and has said that he did not 
provide his details to anyone to carry out the fraud. He also says he didnt authorise the 
direct debit refunds and he did contact the bank about the fraud. 
Nat West have confirmed they have nothing further to add.
My findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered again my provisional 
findings in the light of Mr Fs response to it.
Mr F has said that he didnt authorise the direct debits nor provide his details to anyone to 
carry out the fraud. I appreciate what Mr F is saying but a fraudster would have needed 
access to his phone, online banking and telephone banking security in order to carry out the 
fraud on his account. I cant see how a fraudster would have got access to all this 
information without his knowledge. 
Mr F has also said he contacted the bank. But even if he has done so, there is still no 
plausible explanation how a fraudster got access to all the information needed to carry out 
the fraud without Mr F knowing about it. 
Mr F hasnt provided any other plausible explanation or any further evidence that would lead 
me to change my conclusions of what is most likely happened here. 
For all these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman