DRN-3887972
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the renewal of their medical insurance policy with              
BUPA Insurance Limited.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs L have a private medical insurance policy with 
BUPA which renews on 1 October each year. On 9 September 2022, Mr L contacted 
BUPA about the renewal premium. He agreed to an increase in the excess due under 
the policy from £500 to £2,000 in order to reduce the premium from £8,017.44 to 
£5,078.28.  
On 21 September 2022, Mr L contacted BUPA again to enquire about cancellation. 
BUPA said that the excess due under the policy was still £500 and it offered Mr L one 
months free subscription as an incentive not to cancel the policy. Mr L queried that. 
BUPA confirmed that the quote hed received was for an excess of £500.   
On 28 September 2022, BUPA contacted Mr L to say that it had made an error and that 
the excess was £2,000. It explained how the error occurred. Mr L complained about that. 
Mr L said that BUPA should honour the offer it made in error. In response to the 
complaint, BUPA confirmed its offer of one months free subscription and paid               
Mr and Mrs L compensation of £100. Mr L pursued the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L want BUPA to reinstate the terms it offered in error and compensation for 
their distress and inconvenience. Mr L said that he felt bullied into accepting an inferior 
offer.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that it was fair or 
reasonable to require BUPA to provide the policy with an excess of £500. The 
investigator didnt think that BUPA had bullied Mr L into accepting an inferior offer. 
The investigator said that this services approach when mistakes like this happen is to 
aim to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in had the mistake 
not happened. The investigator thought that BUPAs offer of one months free 
subscription and compensation of £100 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. Mr L responded to say:
The investigator proceeded on the basis that BUPA corrected its mistake before 
the renewal date, but he considers that the e-mail exchange between him and 
BUPA constituted a contract.
Its debatable whether he had time to make alternative arrangements before the 
policy renewal date of 1 October. 
He felt pressurised into accepting BUPAs offer.
Its questionable that hes not out-of-pocket.
He felt fobbed off by BUPAs offer of £100 and holds out for a better offer though 
he feels that a compromise would be appropriate. 
BUPA could have employed a more considerate approach to a longstanding 
customer in his position. 
The investigator considered what Mr L said but didnt change her view. Mr L added:
He had a better offer from another insurer which he didnt take up as a result of 
BUPAs error. 
Hes uncomfortable with the principle that if theres a contractual agreement 
made in error, one side can withdraw with an apology and token payment.
Mr and Mrs L asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that BUPA made an error in that it told Mr L that the excess due under 
the policy was £500, whereas the excess was in fact £2,000. The remaining issue for me to 
decide is what steps, if any, BUPA needs to take to put matters right. 
I dont consider that BUPAs incorrect renewal quote amounts to a contract of insurance 
between the parties. BUPA made an error during the renewal process. Its important to note 
that the policy documentation which followed the error showed the correct position and that 
the error was corrected before the renewal date.     
When mistakes like this happen, we dont require the parties to proceed on the basis that the 
incorrect information is true. Instead, we look at the effect of the error on the individuals 
concerned. Here, Mr and Mrs L were no doubt disappointed and upset to discover that the 
excess due under their policy was £2,000, not £500. And they were inconvenienced in 
dealing with this matter. 
Mr L says that BUPAs error caused loss as he had a better offer from another insurer which 
he didnt take up as a result of BUPAs error. Mr L hasnt provided any evidence  such as a 
quote - to support his assertion. In any event, BUPA told Mr L about its error before renewal 
of Mr and Mrs Ls policy, so it was open to them to take up the better offer if they wished to 
do so. 
Ive listened to the relevant phone calls between Mr L and BUPA. Having done so, I dont 
agree that BUPA bullied or pressurised Mr L to proceed with the renewal or to accept its 
offers to put things right.  
Considering everything, there are no grounds on which I could fairly direct BUPA to provide 
Mr and Mrs L with the lower premium and an excess of £500. I think that BUPAs offer of one 
months free subscription and compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by BUPAs error. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman