DRN-2802479
The complaint
Mr H says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H took out a 12-month instalment loan from Likely Loans on 8 December 2016. It was for 
£1000 and the monthly repayments were £102.36. The total repayable was £1228.32. It was 
repaid in full by 4 December 2017. 
Mr H says the loan was given whilst he was having financial difficulties and it created a 
cycle of borrowing from other lenders. 
Our adjudicator found that Likely Loans did not lend irresponsibly to Mr H. He said from 
the information the lender gathered there was nothing to suggest Mr H wouldnt be able 
to sustainably repay the loan. Mr H disagreed saying his bank statement from the time 
shows he was in and out of debt and borrowing to get by. He asked for his case to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Likely Loans lent to Mr H required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr 
H. In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr H. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
- did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
- did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Mr H before it approved the loan. It 
asked for details of his annual income and his monthly expenditure, and for one recent bank 
statement. It also checked Mr Hs credit file. It has provided what it says is a high-level 
overview of the customers financial status upon application but adds that this represents just 
a small proportion of the data it gathered. From what it has shared I can see it looked at the 
number of accounts Mr H had, his credit balance, credit score and calculated a debt to 
income ratio. From these checks combined Likely Loans concluded Mr H had enough 
monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
It has also provided a more detailed credit file with a search date of June 2019. It has 
explained that it would have extracted detailed data like this from Mr Hs credit file at the time 
of the application, but it does not store this. However, it says this report shows the status of 
Mr Hs credit commitments that it would have seen at the time of the lending. 
Based on the term and value of Mr Hs loan, and the age of the lending relationship, I think 
these checks were proportionate. So Ive then looked at whether or not I think Likely Loans 
made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. 
Mr H said his annual income was £39,500 and his monthly expenditure was £1,000. The 
loan purpose was captured as other. The high-level overview from Likely Loans credit 
check shows that Mr H had total debts of £900 with a very low debt to income ratio 2%. 
The lender says his credit file shows he was meeting all his credit commitments at the time 
and it can approximate that he had monthly credit commitments of £286. Given the June 
2019 search date of the credit file and the fact it did not record the full data it extracted as 
part of its credit check, I cant know whether Likely Loans knew this at the time of the 
application, or if this is solely retrospective analysis. 
However, that aside, based on the information it gathered I dont think there was anything 
that ought to have led Likely Loans to make a different lending decision. Mr H had a low 
level of debt, a fair credit score and the monthly repayments were a low percentage of his 
income. Mr H says his bank statement showed more borrowing and that he was struggling. I 
accept it does show his credit commitments between 16 October and 4 November 2016 
were higher than the lenders assumption  but as it checked his credit file at ht etiem of the 
application and his overall indebtedness was low I think its reasonable for the lender to have assumed some of the short-term loans had been settled. In addition, even with higher credit 
commitments in the month, and assuming Mr Hs declared expenses were accurate, he still 
had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan. The lender could see a new payday loan 
taken out on 25 October but given the information it had on Mr Hs overall creditworthiness I 
dont think this in itself was a reason not to lend.  
The credit report Likely Loans obtained may not reflect all other borrowing Mr H had at the 
time - or what he would have seen on his full credit file - as not all lenders report to all the 
credit refence agencies, and timing can be an issue, but Im satisfied it is largely reliable. 
And it was reasonable for the lender to rely on it in the circumstances of this case.
It follows I dont think, on balance, that Likely Loans was wrong to give this loan to Mr H. 
Finally, I havent found any evidence that Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
some other way.  
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman