DRN-3030130
The complaint
Mr V complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) removed 
one of his shareholdings from his account without his authority. He wants HLAM to return or 
replace the shares.
What happened
Mr V has a general account and an ISA account, both execution only. Within his ISA he had 
a holding of shares which I will refer to as M. In February 2020, HLAM wrote to Mr V to tell 
him the shares had been delisted and, as such, could no longer be held in his ISA and 
couldnt be traded through HLAM. HLAM transferred the shares to his general account to 
ensure it wasnt in breach of ISA regulations. In August 2020 HLAM wrote to Mr V again to 
tell him that the company had cancelled the shares and that no returns were being paid to 
shareholders. It removed the shares from his account.
Mr V complained that the shares shouldnt have been removed from his account without his 
authority and that, if they hadnt been removed, he would have looked to trade on the over 
the counter (OTC) market.
HLAM said the shares had been cancelled and no instruction was required from Mr V.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that, whilst 
M was still trading, it had issued new shares. Mr Vs shares were valueless and had been 
cancelled  so HLAM wasnt wrong to remove them from his account.
Mr V didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He bought the shares and they belong to him. Even if they are worthless and cant be 
sold, they still belong to him.
HLAM prematurely removed the shares from his account when they could still be traded 
OTC.
The HLAM app still showed M shares and the dealing pages suggest the shares could 
still be traded at least up until the end of March 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following M filing for bankruptcy, its shares were delisted from the New York stock 
exchange. This meant, because of the ISA regulations and requirements, M shares could no 
longer be held in Mr Vs ISA. Mr V says he understands and accepts this.
HLAM transferred the shares to Mr Vs general account. Mr V traded on an execution only 
basis. So it wasnt for HLAM to advise Mr V what to do with his shares or to give him advice 
about the OTC market. HLAM does not trade on the OTC exchange, so it was up to Mr V if 
he wanted to investigate how he could trade  although with bankruptcy proceedings taking 
place, it was likely to be a very small or non-existent market.
As part of the bankruptcy proceedings, the shares were then cancelled  and HLAM wrote to 
Mr V in August 2020 to confirm his holding was now worthless and would be removed from 
his account. I dont find that HLAM did anything wrong here. Mr V says the shares belong to 
him. But they no longer exist, so there was, and is, nothing for HLAM to transfer to him.
Mr V has provided screenshots to show that there was still information about M shares on 
the HLAM app until around the end of March 2021. HLAM has told us this was simply 
because information about M shares hadnt been removed from its records. When Mr V tried 
to purchase M shares through the app, he received a message telling him he couldnt trade 
online but could phone HLAM to deal. HLAM has told us that if Mr V had called its dealing 
desk, he would have been told he could not deal  because the shares had been cancelled.
What happened here is very unfortunate  Mr Vs shares became worthless because they 
were cancelled as part of Ms bankruptcy proceedings. And I understand how frustrating this 
must be, particularly when M issued new shares and is continuing to trade. But I dont find 
HLAM did anything wrong. HLAM provided Mr V with clear communication about what was 
happening at each stage, and I cant ask it to reinstate shares that no longer exist
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman