DRN-3436718
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the settlement theyve been provided with by Aviva 
Insurance Limited, after making a claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have explained they went abroad on holiday, on 5 March 2020. They were due 
to return to the UK on 30 March 2020. But just over a week before they were due to fly 
home, the country they were in imposed some country-wide restrictions on air travel. Mr and 
Mrs P explained that the country stopped all commercial flights in and out of the country.
Initially these restrictions were supposed to start from 22 March 2020, for a week. But the 
country Mr and Mrs P were in extended these restrictions  so that Mr and Mrs P werent 
able to travel home on their scheduled flight, due to board on 30 March 2020. It was 
cancelled. This meant Mr and Mrs P had to stay abroad longer than they originally planned.
Mr and Mrs P said they therefore had to pay for accommodation for their extended stay 
abroad, as well as food. And they had to pay for a repatriation flight home. This was after 
following the process to get a repatriation flight  which meant registering with the countrys 
high commission, who arranged for Mr and Mrs P to be repatriated when there was a flight 
available.
Because Mr and Mrs P incurred these additional costs, they made a claim under their travel 
insurance policy. Aviva paid for Mr and Mrs Ps additional accommodation costs, which were 
£1,155  but it took off an excess of £50 per person. And it paid Mr and Mrs P for the 
difference in cost between their original flight home, and the repatriation flight they needed to 
get. In total, Mr and Mrs P were paid £1,403.
Aviva said that Mr and Mrs P didnt have cover under their policy for these costs. It said the 
enforced stay section of Mr and Mrs Ps policy didnt provide cover when the airport or 
airspace wasnt closed. But it said it had extended the enforced stay section of cover, as a 
gesture of goodwill to allow for payment, but up to the limit applicable under the cancellation 
section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with this. They said that the airport was closed  with all 
commercial flights both in and out of the country being stopped. So, the enforced stay 
section of their policy applied anyway.
Aviva responded to Mr and Mrs P and apologised for saying the airport wasnt closed, when 
it was indeed shut. But it said this didnt alter the outcome of the claim, as the policy would 
only cover the additional costs Mr and Mrs P incurred, on the enforced stay benefit amount, 
not both. It said this was stated in the policy wording.
Because Mr and Mrs P remained in disagreement with this, they referred their complaint to 
this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said that 
Mr and Mrs P had been paid for the additional costs they incurred by Aviva, and that was 
what the policy was designed to do. So, they didnt recommend Aviva do anything more.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They reiterated that they felt the cover under their policy allowed 
for them to be provided with a settlement for £1,500 each. So, a settlement of £3,000 in total.
Because Mr and Mrs P disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint, to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs P an additional £1,397, plus interest. Ive explained this further  
and why I think this is fair and reasonable, below.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought 
about whether Aviva, in providing Mr and Mrs P with a settlement of £1,403, did so fairly. 
And I dont think it did.
 
I say this because Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps policy booklet, which provides the full terms 
and conditions of their cover. And in this, Im aware Mr and Mrs P have cover under a 
section called Enforced Stay Abroad.
This section explains that if a policyholder is provided with cover if they are;
...unable to return home on your scheduled return date due to:
a. the airspace being closed; or
b. the airport or port that you are scheduled to travel from or through being closed; or
c.your flight being cancelled as a direct result of volcanic ash in the atmosphere.
Aviva initially said the airspace, and airport Mr and Mrs P were due to fly from wasnt closed. 
And then later apologised for this mistake  as the airport was indeed closed. Ive also 
looked at the evidence supplied by the parties, which includes information from the High 
Commission in the relevant country, about the situation with flights. And Ive looked at 
communications from the High Commission online myself, for when Mr and Mrs P were due 
to fly home.
From doing so, I can see that the country Mr and Mrs P were in did ground all international 
passenger flights in and out of the country, starting from 22 March 2020. Meaning the 
airspace was closed at that point too.
This was initially to be for a week  but this was extended. The information from the High 
Commission explains that repatriation flights from Mr and Mrs Ps destination, to the UK, 
began on 13 April 2020. The High Commission asked those in the country to contact it, and 
they would be put on a list for repatriation. It also asked for anyone with vulnerabilities to let 
them know  essentially so they could be repatriated first. There were then flights on 13 April 
2020, 17 April 2020, 15 April 2020 and then 20 April 2020  which is the flight Mr and Mrs P 
were offered, and they boarded. Given this information, Im satisfied the airport was closed to international passengers, at 
least until 13 April 2020. And Im pleased to see Aviva has now acknowledged this in this 
instance, as that seems fair and reasonable in Mr and Mrs Ps situation. 
So, Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances do fall under the Enforced Stay Abroad section of their 
policy. 
Ive also looked at what settlement this section of the policy provides. And it says;
we will pay you;
1. £100 per insured person for every full 24 hour period you are unable to return 
home, or
2. up to £1,000 per insured person in respect of necessary and reasonable additional 
travel and accommodation expenses where, after a period of 24 hours or more, you 
unavoidably have to make immediate alternative arrangements to return home.
Special conditions
1. Where you claim under item 1 above,
we will work out the length of your enforced stay abroad form the date and 
time of your scheduled departure as shown on your ticket/itinerary
you must obtain written confirmation from your carrier or handling agents of 
the actual date and time of your return to the UK
2. Payment under item 2 will only be considered where your carrier or handling agents 
have not been able to offer you suitable alternative accommodation and/or travel 
arrangements. All claims must be supported by documentary evidence of the costs 
you have incurred.
The most we will pay for each insured person is
()
1. £1,500 under items 1 above
2. £1,000 under item 2 above.
Mr and Mrs P werent able to return home as planned on 30 March 2020, until 20 April 2020 
- and they had needed to source accomodation themselves for their extended stay. Im 
aware Mr and Mrs P have provided Aviva with evidence for this. And this evidence isnt 
disputed. Aviva has paid Mr and Mrs P £1,403 as a result of this evidence.
But the policy wording above doesnt explain whether Mr and Mrs Ps claim should be paid 
under option one or two of the term. Both options apply in this circumstance. 
If the claim was paid under option one  Mr and Mrs P would be entitled to £100 each, for 
each 24 hour period they were forced to stay abroad  up to a limit of £1,500 each. The 
airspace opened for passengers back to the UK, as far as I can tell, on 13 April 2020. So 
according to the policy, Mr and Mrs P can claim £100 for every 24 hours, until 13 April 2020, 
when the airspace re-opened. It is 14 days from the date of their original flight, to the date 
the airspace opened. Meaning an entitlement under this option of £1,400 each - £2,800 in 
total.    
If the claim was under option two  Mr and Mrs P would be entitled to their additional 
expenses for flights and accomodation. For which evidence of £1,403 has already been 
received and paid by Aviva.So, Mr and Mrs P could claim under the higher of the two options  option one in their case, 
and be paid for every 24 hours since their scheduled departure, until 13 April 2020. Or, 
under option two, which provides them with up to £2,000 for the actual costs they incurred 
for alternative accomodation and travel arrangements,and which came to £1,403. 
Aviva has essentially paid Mr and Mrs P under option two  for the additional alternative 
travel and accomodation arrangements. But, I think its reasonable to read the above terms 
of the policy, giving Mr and Mrs P the benefit of the doubt. I say this because I think the 
policy term is ambiguous  and where this is the case, its fair to read the term in favour of 
the party that didnt draft it. Aviva hasnt specified in the policy whether, when both option 
one and two apply, the higher or lower of the two options should be paid. And so I think its 
reasonable that in Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances they would read that they were entitled to 
the more favourable option of the two. 
As above, that means Mr and Mrs P would be entitled to £2,800 in total. Mr and Mrs P have 
already been paid £1,403. So, Mr and Mrs P are due a further £1,397. There is no excess 
applicable to the enforced stay section of the policy  and so no excess for Aviva to take 
from this amount. 
And, because theyve been without the £1,397 Mr and Mrs P should be provided with 8% 
interest on this amount, as detailed below.
Mr and Mrs P responded, and agreed with the provisional decision. Aviva didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided me with additional evidence or comments to alter the provisional 
decision noted above. And so, my final decision does remain the same as that of my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint, and require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs P an additional £1,397.
Pay Mr and Mrs P 8% interest on this amount, simple per annum, from the date of 
loss, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. If HM Revenue & 
Customs requires Aviva to deduct tax from this interest Aviva should give Mr and Mrs 
P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman