DRN-3040245
The complaint
Ms M complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited accepted liability for an accident 
she was involved in without consulting her, and that it failed to communicate with her 
properly throughout the process.
What happened
Ms M was involved in a collision with another car in March 2020. Both cars were damaged. 
Ms M has explained that she was signalling to turn at a junction. The other driver was 
approaching the junction from the road she was turning into. She thought he wasnt going to 
stop, so she swerved and collided with the nearside of the other car. Ms M stated on her 
claim form that she held the other driver responsible for the accident.
Around five months after the accident, Ms M contacted Highway about her policy renewal, 
and it was then that she discovered that Highway had accepted liability for the accident. 
Ms M believes that Highway prioritised the other drivers interests over her own, and 
accepted liability too quickly after receiving correspondence from the other drivers legal 
representatives. And shes unhappy that Highway didnt consult her before accepting liability. 
Highway accepted that it should have told Ms M it was going to accept liability for the 
accident. And it apologised for not having done so. But it said that based on the information 
it had and its experience, it needed to accept liability. It offered Ms M £150 to apologise for 
not having updated her when it should have done. Ms M wasnt satisfied with Highways 
response, and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
brief, she thought that it had been reasonable of Highway to conclude that it was unlikely to 
succeed in contesting liability. So she didnt think it had been unreasonable to agree to settle 
the other drivers claim. And she thought the £150 which Highway had offered Ms M to 
apologise for its poor communication with Ms M was fair.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining that it isnt our role to decide who was, in fact, responsible for an 
accident. Thats a matter for the courts. Instead, I need to decide whether the insurer has 
acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
deciding to settle the claim.
Under the terms of Ms Ms motor insurance policy, Highway was entitled to take over a claim 
from a third party and to defend it or settle it as it saw fit. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies. 
Insurers are entitled to decide whether its reasonable to contest a third-party claim. Court 
proceedings can be expensive, and the outcome cant be guaranteed. So insurers consider 
the costs involved and the likelihood of success in deciding whether or not to defend a claim. 
And if an insurer doesnt think it has a reasonable chance of defending a claim in court, its 
entitled to settle the claim to avoid a court hearing. This sometimes means that an insurer 
makes a decision that the policyholder disagrees with, as happened here.
As Ive already explained, its not for me to decide who was responsible for the accident. My 
role is to decide whether Highway acted fairly in deciding how to settle matters. Highway 
considered what Ms M had told it about the location and circumstances of the accident, and 
the damage to the cars. And it thought that it was likely that Ms M, rather than the other 
driver, would be held responsible for the accident if the claim went to court. So it decided to 
accept liability on her behalf, as it was entitled to do under the terms of Ms Ms policy. 
I acknowledge that Highway reached its conclusion about liability quickly, but I cant say that 
it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so, based on the information it had.
It might be that there was some scope for argument about whether the accident was Ms Ms 
sole or partial responsibility. But the impact on Ms Ms insurance record of accepting full 
liability on Ms Ms part is no different than it would have been if liability had been split 
between Ms M and the other driver. It would still have been recorded as a fault claim. 
I understand Ms Ms frustration that she has a fault claim on her insurance record even 
though she feels strongly that she wasnt responsible for the accident. But like the 
investigator, I dont think Highway acted unreasonably in accepting liability for the accident. 
Highway has acknowledged that it should have told Ms M that it intended to accept liability. 
And its offered to pay her £150 to apologise for its failure to keep her updated. Ms M has 
referred to Highways offer as being unsolicited and arbitrary. Shes commented that it 
doesnt reflect the time shes spent pursuing a resolution to her queries, or the increased 
premiums shell have to pay in the future. 
But I consider £150 to be fair and reasonable to reflect the inconvenience caused to Ms M 
by Highways poor communication. And since Ive found that it acted fairly in reaching the 
decision it did about liability, I cant require Highway to compensate Ms M for any resulting 
increases in her policy premiums.
I realise that Ms M will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive set out, 
I cant uphold her complaint. If the £150 hasnt already been paid to Ms M, and if she would 
like to accept Highways offer, she should contact it directly.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman