DRN-3328696
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around September 2017, Mrs J and Mr J were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs J and Mr J decided 
to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In or around April 2019, Mrs J and Mr J made a claim under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. They said that P had made a number of representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mrs J 
and Mr J to enter into the contract with P. They have made the following points:
The salesperson said a rechargeable grid storage battery would be fitted; and
Mrs J and Mr J would receive a rental fee of £60 per month from the government for 
access to energy from the battery.
Shawbrook havent issued a final response to Mrs J and Mr Js complaint. So, they decided 
to refer their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs J and Mr J and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mrs J and Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
They raised concerns about their energy provider and the company processing their 
stored battery power. They held P responsible for their association with this 
company; and 
they felt our investigators view hadnt considered a voice recording of the 
salesperson; and
our investigator hadnt considered compensation already offered by P.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
Before this service can consider any complaint raised by Mrs J and Mr J, the complaint must 
first be presented to both P and Shawbrook to consider. P need to have been approached to 
ensure theyve been given every opportunity to resolve Mrs J and Mr Js complaints and 
concerns. In the event they remain unhappy, Mrs J and Mr J should then refer their 
complaints to Shawbrook under a section 75 claim.
The complaint Mrs J and Mr J originally referred to this service relates specifically to the 
provision of a grid storage battery and rental payments they believe they shouldve received. 
This is what I understand was presented to Shawbrook. I havent seen anything to 
demonstrate that any other aspect, since raised with this service by Mrs J and Mr J, has 
been presented to Shawbrook. So, in reaching my decision, Im only able to consider Mrs J 
and Mr Js original complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs J and Mr J paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs J and Mr J could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they couldve claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs J and 
Mr J and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by Mrs J, Mr J and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs J and Mr Js recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the systemPage 5 of the quote provides details of the items included within the contract, and the price 
agreed.
 
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mrs J and Mr J makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £10,183.95. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £10,183.95. The total amount of credit is £10,083.95 and it goes on 
to show that the total amount payable would be £19,354.60.
Having considered the information included in the table above, together with the rest of the 
quote, Ive been unable to find any reference to the provision of a grid storage battery. So, I 
cant see that this item is included within the schedule of items to be provided and the price 
agreed. 
There is reference to Battery Storage on Page 17 of the quote. But this doesnt make any 
reference to the payment of a monthly rent from the government or any other organisation. 
This appears to be a generic part of the document which lists and provides more information 
about possible options available to Mrs J and Mr J.
The Sales Presentation
Mrs J and Mr Js recollections of the presentation have suggested they were verbally told 
they would benefit from installation of a grid storage battery at a later date. 
Im satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process. It wouldve been 
discussed with Mrs J and Mr J, which the original complaint supports. So, Ive not been 
provided with anything that persuades me that the salesperson wouldve said something that 
would then have been contradicted by the quote. Im also satisfied that Mrs J and Mr J were 
sent the quote, had time to consider it and to raise any issues prior to installation.
Mrs J and Mr J have provided a voice recording of a telephone conversation with an 
individual. This appears to be a brief discussion relating to rental payments expected to be 
received in respect of a grid storage battery. Its suggested the conversation took place 
between Mr J and the original salesperson. However, I understand that, the conversation 
post-dated that representatives time as an employee of P, so without authority to represent 
them. Its also not possible to authenticate the parties to that conversation. So, I cant 
reasonably rely upon this when reaching my decision.
Ps proposed settlement
This service has been provided with copies of email exchanges between Mr J and P, 
specifically in relation to the areas included within Mrs J and Mr Js complaint. These 
suggest P were trying to be as helpful as possible in resolving their complaint. 
P offered to install a grid storage battery system at Mrs J and Mr Js home, free of charge. 
They stressed that the contractual documentation didnt include this, but it was offered as a 
gesture of goodwill to try and resolve matters. Mrs J and Mr J accepted Ps offer but also 
wanted to be compensated with an amount to represent the rental income they say they 
were told they would receive.
P also offered to pay Mrs J and Mr J £240, being equivalent to four monthly rental payments 
of £60. This also appears to have been offered as a gesture of goodwill, and in an attempt to 
resolve Mrs J and Mr Js complaint. P made it clear that no agreement existed suggesting 
rental payments would be received. Having looked at all the documentation provided, Im 
also unable to find anything that suggests this. 
Ultimately I believe P were merely trying to resolve Mrs J and Mrs Js complaint to their 
satisfaction. Unfortunately, it appears Ps proposals werent enough to do that here. Mrs J 
and Mr J have emphasised that the goodwill gestures made by P constitute an acceptance 
they made a mistake. Its generally accepted that a goodwill gesture is aimed at resolving a 
complaint without the acceptance of liability. So, I cant reasonably interpret Ps actions as 
an admission they made any mistakes here.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, while I 
acknowledge the efforts made by P to resolve Mrs J and Mr Js concerns, Im satisfied that 
there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced them to enter into the 
contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman