DRN-4044977
The complaint
Mr M complains about an error made by Marsh Ltd when setting up his commercial property 
owners insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out the policy through Marsh. He later made a claim to the insurer as he said 
storm damage had been caused to the front of the property.
The insurer assessed the claim, and noted that when Mr M had taken out the policy, he 
hadnt declared that the property had a flat roof. It said if it had known this, it wouldnt have 
been able to offer the policy. It said it would avoid the policy from the start and return the 
premium Mr M had paid. Though it also said it wouldnt have covered the claim anyway, as it 
thought the damage was due to wear and tear, rather than the storm. 
Mr M said that Marsh, acting as his insurance intermediary, had been aware that the 
property had a flat roof. Marsh accepted this was correct, and that it should have passed this 
information onto the insurer when it had arranged the policy for Mr M. 
An agreement was reached between Mr M, Marsh, and the insurer, whereby the insurer 
agreed not to avoid the policy, so long as Mr M took out cover elsewhere and withdrew his 
claim. The policy was therefore cancelled as of August 2022 (instead of avoided from the 
start) and Marsh arranged for the property to be covered under a new policy with another 
insurer. 
Mr M complained to Marsh about its failure to tell the insurer that the property had a flat roof. 
He wanted Marsh to pay the claim.
Marsh issued its final response in February 2023. It apologised for its error. However, it 
didnt think Mr M had been disadvantaged by this, because the insurer hadnt avoided the 
policy. Also, the insurer had determined the damage was due to wear and tear rather than a 
storm. Marsh offered Mr M £150 compensation for any inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr M didnt accept Marshs offer of compensation, and asked this Service to look into his 
concerns. Our investigator did so, but didnt uphold his complaint. She didnt think Mr M had 
been caused any financial loss by Marshs error. 
Mr M has asked for an ombudsmans decision, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Marsh made an error by failing to tell the insurer about the flat roof. 
When a business makes an error, the aim of this Service is to place the complainant back in 
the position they would have been in (as far as possible), if not for the error.
Mr M had only agreed to withdraw the claim from the insurer because of Marshs error. So, if 
the claim would have been payable, then Mr M would have been disadvantaged by Marshs 
error, and I would require Marsh to pay compensation equivalent to the claim amount. 
The insurer had already carried out an investigation into the claim and has provided its 
confidential report to this Service. So I think theres sufficient evidence for me to make a 
finding on whether or not a claim would have been payable. 
Its not in dispute there was a storm at the time the damage happened, and Im satisfied that 
was the case. 
Damage was caused to the fascia and signage on the front elevation. The storm tore the 
light fittings and signage from the fascia (theres some CCTV evidence of this). Im satisfied 
the damage claimed for was consistent with damage that a storm typically causes. 
The remaining point for me to consider is whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage, or if it merely highlighted an existing problem. 
Ive considered the comments provided by Mr Ms contractor. They said the items claimed 
for were affected by the storm. And whilst they accepted that some of the fascia was in need 
of decorative attention, they thought there had been significant damage caused by the 
storm. 
The report provided by the insurer explains that Mr Ms property occupies the ground floor of 
the property, and there is a restaurant located on the first floor. The loss adjuster said the 
property was in a generally poor state of repair at the time of the inspection. They concluded 
the damage was due to wear and tear to the front of the property, together with a lack of 
maintenance. 
Ive looked at the photos of the front elevation before the storm, and its clear there was 
some existing wear and tear to the signage. I think the insurers loss adjuster also made a 
reasonable point that the restaurant on the first floor would have been more susceptible to 
the wind (as it was higher), yet there was no damage to the restaurant. 
This supports the insurers view that there was already wear and tear to the signage of 
Mr Ms property and that the storm merely highlighted this. On balance, I think the insurers 
findings are more persuasive than Mr Ms contractors opinion, and that the storm wasnt the 
main cause of the damage. I therefore find that Mr M hasnt suffered a financial loss as a 
result of Marshs error. 
Marsh offered Mr M £150 compensation for any inconvenience he was caused. Given that 
the policy wasnt avoided by the insurer as Marsh accepted responsibility for the error (and 
Marsh arranged cover elsewhere for Mr M), I think Mr M was caused minimal inconvenience 
by the matter. I find that £150 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Marsh Ltd has already made an offer to pay Mr M £150 compensation to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Marsh Ltd should pay Mr M £150 if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman