DRN-2828144
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the advice given by Legal & General Group Plc - this part of the 
busines has now been transferred to ReAssure Limited. The advice was to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mrs B also complains that the compensation she has been given as part of the personal 
Pension Review is not adequate.
What happened
Mrs B was advised by Legal & General in 1990 in respect of her pension planning. Legal & 
General advised Mrs B to transfer her pension benefits into two personal pensions.  
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an 
industrywide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 
30 June 1994. It was generally known as the Pension Review. It aimed to address concerns 
about the possible widespread mis-selling of personal pension plans between these dates. 
Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and assumptions that 
firms had to use to determine if any redress was due.
In 2004 Mrs Bs pension was included in the Pension Review and, as a result, she was 
offered compensaion. Legal & General determined that Mrs Bs personal pension benefits 
were less than her DB scheme benefits. And, to rectify this, they paid her compensation that 
consisted of tax-free cash of £2,641.69 and a pension of £604.56. Mrs B accepted this 
compensation in full and final settlement. 
Mrs B, via her representative, complained in 2020 to ReAssure about the advice to transfer. 
She said that, in summary: 
The transfer wasnt suitable as it exposed her to the risk of a significantly lower 
retirement income. 
The fund used wasnt suitable as it was a complex and high cost managed fund. 
Legal & General should have used more than one fund. 
ReAssure didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It said that the sale of the plan had been 
reviewed under the Pension Review and compensation had been accepted and paid. It 
didnt need to look at the advice again. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that the Pension Review was performed, and there wasnt anything to show that it was 
done incorrectly, given the guidance and assumptions that the regulator required Legal & 
General to use at the time. As this was the case, it wouldnt be fair to ask ReAssure to 
review the advice a second time. 
Mrs Bs representative disagreed, saying there are many examples of cases where reviews 
have been incorrectly performed. And this may be the case here as the loss was done on an 
actual loss basis rather than a prospective loss basis. Legal & General should have retained 
the full details of the Pension Review, rather than just a screenshot. So, it wasnt certain the 
review was done correctly. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
Legal & General (now ReAssure) accepted that the advice Mrs B received may have been 
unsuitable and has calculated, and paid, compensation for this. The Pension Review was 
created to look at potential mis-selling, so Mrs Bs complaint isnt different, her situation is 
what the Pension Review was designed for. And as the investigator explained, ReAssure 
isnt required to look at the advice Legal & General gave her again.
The intention was that the Pension Review would compensate Mrs B for the losses she 
would experience when she came to retire. The regulator provided assumptions for firms to 
use when carrying out the loss calculations. These assumptions attempted to predict future 
loss by determining things like future investment returns. 
Some of the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent, in hindsight, 
turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity 
rates have fallen. And these assumptions have changed over time. So, Mrs B may receive a 
greater amount of compensation if the review was performed again now. 
But, even taking into account these changing assumptions, it doesn't mean ReAssure must 
redo the calculation. Under the terms of the Pensions Review, the review was only required 
to be conducted once, using the standards and assumptions the regulator told them to use 
at the time. This is because the assumptions or predictions they used were considered 
reasonable at the time to assess the loss. The regulator intended that the review would draw 
a line under any pension mis-selling and would put things right at the time. Once a business 
carried out a Pension Review they werent required to review it again.
I can see from the information that ReAssure has provided that she took the benefits from 
her personal pension shortly before the pension review loss assessment. So, calculating the 
loss on an actual basis, rather than a prospective basis, was correct. So, ReAssure also 
doesnt have to redo the calculation for this reason. 
ReAssure hasnt retained all of the information about the review that Legal & General did in 
2004. Whilst this is unfortunate, and I accept that it maybe should have retained more 
information about the review, we are looking at events that took place around 18 years ago. 
So, this isnt necessarily unexpected, given the passage of time. 
Ive thought carefully about whether it would be fair and reasonable to require the firm to 
redo the loss calculation as at the date of the original calculation, given that it has failed to retain a copy it. However, in the experience of this service generally, very few of these 
calculations have been found to contain material errors. I appreciate that our experience 
appears to be in contrast to Mrs Bs representatives experience. But I dont think it would be 
proportionate, or fair and reasonable, to require the calculation to be done again in this case, 
even though the firm hasnt (and as it was required to do) retained a copy, where the claim 
that the calculation contained an error is just speculation and where such evidence as is 
available doesnt indicate that a material error was made.
Legal & General wouldve been calculating, and paying, compensation on pension review 
cases extensively in 2004. And Mrs B wouldve received detailed information about the loss 
she may have suffered and how it was calculated. 
Its worth noting that Mrs B accepted the review compensation to settle any transfer mis-
selling around 18 years ago. And as far as I can see she didnt raise any issues about this 
then. So, I dont think its right to uphold the complaint on this basis alone.  
In my view it is likely that the transfer has been reviewed as it was required to be by the 
regulators at the time. There is no persuasive evidence to show that this isnt the case. So, I 
wont be asking ReAssure to look at it again.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman