DRN-4205494
The complaint
Mr H complains about the decision by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to turn down his 
boilerplus claim. 
What happened
Mr H holds boilerplus cover with IPA. In January 2023, Mr Hs boiler stopped working and an 
engineer attended. The pump was cleaned, and the nozzle replaced. Mr H made a claim to 
IPA.
IPA turned down the claim, as it thought the work that had been carried out was excluded 
under the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought IPA had turned 
down the claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the section of the policy WHAT IS NOT COVERED it says:
The cost of a boiler service and parts replaced as routine in this service, or parts that have 
not failed but require replacement; parts damaged due to the lack of service; cleaning or 
adjusting of parts (including where the parts have stopped functioning until cleaned or 
adjusted). 
The engineer cleaned the pump. The above wording makes it clear that cleaning of parts is 
excluded, so I dont require IPA to pay for this. 
Mr H says he thinks the intent of the above policy wording is to exclude issues caused by the 
lack of regular maintenance and servicing of the boiler. He says the engineer told him the 
pump would not be cleaned or examined during regular servicing, so he thinks this should be 
covered.
The wording makes it clear that parts damaged due to the lack of service arent covered. 
This is separated by a semicolon from the next section in the list of what is not covered. This 
says that cleaning or adjusting of parts isnt covered. So it doesnt matter whether or not the 
pump is cleaned or examined during regular servicing. The fact remains that cleaning of 
parts is specifically excluded. 
The engineer also replaced the nozzle due to excess soiling. Mr H argues that the nozzle is 
a consumable item and not a component because it is replaced annually at a service. 
The policy covers the components and controls within the casing of the boiler. I would 
assume the nozzle is within the boiler casing, so this would be considered a component and 
therefore potentially covered (even if it is replaced regularly). Nozzles arent covered 
separately under the policy.
However, the policy excludes the cost of replacing any component which has been installed 
for a period of less than six months. 
The nozzle was replaced at the previous service in August 2022. This was within six months 
of it needing to be replaced again in January 2023. Im therefore satisfied IPA was correct to 
turn down this part of the claim. 
As the work carried out by the engineer wasnt covered under the policy, I dont require IPA 
to cover the engineers call out fee. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman