DRN-4439535
The complaint
Miss V complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC handled for a claim she made under 
a buildings insurance policy.
Reference to Zurich includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Miss V benefitted from a buildings insurance policy, underwritten by Zurich, which 
covered the flat she lived in.
In March 2021, Miss V got in touch with Zurich after a water leak caused damage. 
Zurich accepted the claim. It arranged for strip out work to begin and paid for Miss V 
to move to alternative accommodation (AA).
Miss V made a complaint about the way Zurich was handling the claim. It gave its 
complaint response in September 2021. It accepted there had been service failings 
and offered her £750 compensation.
Miss V referred that complaint to our Service. We said it had been referred to us out 
of time, so we couldnt consider it.
The claim continued and Miss V returned home in December 2021. Repairs were 
complete by the end of January 2022, aside from a problem with the heating system.
Miss V made a second complaint about the way the claim had been handled. She 
made a number of points, in summary:
oThe repairs were not up to standard and took too long.
oCommunication had been poor.
oThe AA was unstable, meaning Miss V moved several times.
oThis had an impact on food costs, as it was harder to buy and store food in 
bulk and/or prepare home cooked meals.
oIt also meant increased travel costs and Miss Vs bike was stolen.
oOn return, the central heating system wasnt working properly.
oAll of this has caused her and her family a huge amount of distress, as well as 
financial loss.
Zurich gave its second complaint response in October 2022. It conceded that its 
communication and the standard of repair carried out both fell short of expectations. 
As a result, it offered a further £400 compensation. It didnt think it was responsible 
for the boiler problem but offered to pay towards the cost as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator thought Zurich had done enough to put things right. He wasnt 
persuaded Miss V had incurred additional food costs and didnt think Zurich was 
responsible for any additional travel costs or her stolen bike. Without evidence to 
show the boiler had been damaged by the water leak or Zurichs contractors, he 
thought its offer was fair. And he also thought its compensation offer was fair.
Miss V didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman. She said the heating system had been working 
properly before the contractors removed part of it during repairs  but they didnt 
return it to that condition. And she didnt think the compensation adequately reflected 
the impact on her and her family of their claim experience.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is the way Zurich handled the claim since the first 
complaint response in September 2021, up to the second complaint response in 
October 2022. I wont be considering anything which happened before or after.
There are a number of points to consider, so Ill look at each separately.
Standard of repair and delays
Zurich has accepted there were poor repairs. This meant work often had to be 
redone, and that delayed the claim. As a result, Miss V and her family were in AA for 
longer than they ought to have been. And when they retuned in December 2021, 
there was a significant list of snagging to complete.
There was also no heating or hot water at a very cold time of year  and Miss V 
hadnt been told about this before her return. I understand hot water was restored 
within two days, but the heating problem persisted. Ill discuss that further below. To 
compound matters, the washing machine wasnt plumbed in properly by the 
contractor, so it leaked when first used, which Miss V had to deal with. She also had 
to clean her home as the contractors hadnt done so.
Its quite clear the way the repairs were handled was poor, caused delays, and had a 
considerable impact on Miss V and her family. Repairs took around eight months in 
total to complete. Around half of that was during the period of time I can consider. Ill 
take all of this into account when thinking about a fair level of compensation.
Heating system and boiler
Its not in dispute that the heating system was working as normal prior to the repairs. 
When Miss V returned home, it wasnt. Regardless of whether or not Zurich was 
responsible for this, I would have expected it to at least forewarn Miss V about this 
and take reasonable steps to investigate it  or pay for further AA.
After Miss V told Zurich about the problem, it arranged for an engineer to attend, but 
the heating couldnt be restored. Miss V got in touch with an engineer privately, who 
recommended the boiler be replaced. Miss V paid to do that.Zurich said the problem was with the boiler, which its contractor didnt work on, as a 
result of age related wear and tear. Miss V said the problem was with the immersion 
water tank, which was replaced during repairs. She doesnt have a report to explain 
what the cause of the problem was.
The only professional opinion I have available to me is from Zurich  and that doesnt 
indicate the problem was caused by its contractors or as a result of the original water 
leak. However, Zurich hasnt explained how a previously working system stopped 
working. Its possible that the delays during repairs contributed to the problem by 
leaving the system idle, but theres no evidence to show that was the case.
Taking all of this into account, I think it was right for Zurich to contribute to the cost 
Miss V, given the uncertainty about the cause of the problem. However, I dont think 
theres enough evidence to show Zurich was likely responsible for the boiler needing 
to be replaced, so I wouldnt expect it to pay in full for the replacement.
Im satisfied its offer of around £450 toward the costs is a reasonable one, given the 
evidence available to me. Ill award this sum to Miss V but if Zurich has already paid 
it, it doesnt need to pay it again.
Miss V is entitled to provide Zurich with further evidence about this matter if she 
wishes and Id expect Zurich to consider its position if she does.
Alternative accommodation and associated costs
The policy covers the cost of AA. It doesnt specify that Zurich will arrange the AA, so 
I dont think Zurich was obliged to do so. But generally I think its best practice for the 
insurer to offer to source and pay for the AA directly. I understand Zurich attempted 
to find suitable AA for Miss V but was unable to do so.
That meant Miss V sourced her own AA, which I understand she also found difficult 
due to the nature of the housing available in the area she lives. As a result, there 
were many moves, including a hotel, rather than a long term let of a house. In part 
that was because Miss V was initially told repairs would take a matter of weeks, 
rather than months, so she was prepared to accept a short term option.
During the period of time I can consider, Miss V was in AA for around two and a half 
months, during which she moved four times. Whilst I have no doubt this was an 
inconvenient and distressing situation, on top of dealing with the claim, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to hold Zurich entirely responsible for it.
It seems the housing options are limited where Miss V lives and thats beyond 
Zurichs control. However, I would have expected it to communicate with her about 
agreeing costs and making payments clearly and promptly to help minimise her 
inconvenience. That didnt always happen. Zurich could have done more to help, 
particularly bearing in mind it was responsible for significant delays, which meant 
Miss V had to find more AA than she ought to have done.
I understand the nature of one of the properties meant Miss Vs bike was less secure 
and that may have led to it being stolen. Thats not something I can hold against 
Zurich as it didnt arrange the AA and sadly theres always a chance of theft.Miss V says she faced additional food costs due to the number of moves and the 
facilities at some of the places she stayed. She says she couldnt buy in bulk and 
often had to cook more ready-prepared food, both of which naturally increase costs. 
However, she didnt keep receipts, so it would be difficult to quantify her loss.
I wouldnt expect Zurich to pay all her food costs  only those reasonably incurred 
over and above what shed usually pay. In the circumstances, I think its likely Miss V 
did incur additional food costs to some extent. Given the frequency of moves and the 
nature of the AA, I can understand how food costs would likely have risen for her and 
her family. I can only consider those incurred during the two and half months in AA. 
And without being able to quantify them, I think the most pragmatic thing to do is to 
factor this into a compensation payment.
Miss V also says her transport costs increased. Again, I would only expect Zurich to 
pay those travel costs reasonably incurred over and above what shed usually pay. 
Miss V hasnt provided evidence of such costs yet but says she may be able to do 
so. Because it seems this loss can be quantified, Miss V should provide Zurich with 
further evidence about this matter and Id expect Zurich to consider its position.
Compensation
For the period of time I can consider, Zurich offered £400 compensation. As outlined 
above, there were delays due to the poor handling of the repairs, poor 
communication, heating and AA problems during this time. There were also likely 
some additional food costs.
Taking all of that into account, Im not persuaded £400 goes far enough to reflect the 
impact on Miss V and her family. I consider a total of £750 is fair in the 
circumstances. If Zurich has already paid £400, it need only pay the remaining £350.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Zurich made a number of points, which Ill 
summarise:
oThe main repairs were complete, and Miss V moved home, in December 2021.
oSnagging repairs were complete before the end of January 2022.
oDelays up to and including September 2021 were considered in the first 
complaint  which is outside the scope of this decision  and which accounted for 
part of the compensation paid at that time.
oWhilst Miss V moved around during the repairs, and this meant she was unable 
to buy food in bulk, this was because she didnt think the options Zurich provided 
were suitable. Had she taken up Zurichs options, it could simply have extended 
AA and avoided the need for her to keep moving.
oOverall, it maintains £400 for this complaint was reasonable.
Miss V also responded to make a number of points, so Ill summarise them too:oShe doesnt have any food or travel receipts. But she does recall increased travel 
costs, as well as the food costs mentioned in the provisional decision.
oShe was pleased Id asked Zurich to pay increased compensation as this had 
been a very stressful experience for her and her family. In particular, being away 
from home for a prolonged period of time, and moving frequently. She asked me 
to consider whether further compensation could be paid toward the boiler.
oZurich had paid the £400 compensation it offered in October 2022. It had also 
paid the boiler contribution of £465.55. So only £350 compensation from my 
suggested award remained to be paid.
Ive thought about the points made by both parties. Having done so, I havent been 
persuaded to change my mind. I remain satisfied the award I set out in my 
provisional decision is a fair way to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
I was aware of all the dates and timescales Zurich has mentioned when I reached my 
provisional decision. I only took into account the way the claim was handled from the 
first complaint response in September 2021, to the second in October 2022.
As a result, when I considered the impact of the repair problems, I only did so from 
October 2021 until they were complete in January 2022. As Zurichs points dont 
change my understanding of the circumstances, they dont change my view about 
compensation.
Zurich initially tried to arrange AA for Miss V, but found it difficult to source suitable 
options. Miss V herself also found it difficult. So I think the nature of the housing 
available in the area she lives meant there was always likely to be challenges 
arranging suitable AA  regardless of who arranged it.
That may have meant some moves and a degree of inconvenience were inevitable. 
But because Zurichs repairs were delayed, Miss V was left in AA for longer than she 
ought to have been  including several moves. And its the inconvenience caused by 
that which was the key factor in my view about compensation.
Without any evidence about food or travel costs, a loss cant be quantified  but I 
think some increased costs were likely for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. In part thats why I suggested increased compensation. Its not an accurate 
assessment of the costs involved, because I dont think thats possible here, but it 
does recognise some degree of increased costs. Overall, I remain satisfied its 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Without further evidence about the cause of the problem to the boiler, Im not 
satisfied it would be fair to require Zurich to contribute more to it than it already has. 
But the option remains for Miss V to provide further evidence to Zurich if she wishes.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Zurich Insurance PLC to:
Pay a total of £750 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman