DRN-2864381
The complaint
Mr W says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited, trading as Hargreaves 
Lansdown (HL), delayed the outward transfers of his stocks and shares Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) and Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and, as a result, caused him 
financial losses of around £38,000 in the former and around £30,000 in the latter.
What happened
Mr W transferred his ISA and SIPP to St. Jamess Place (SJP).
On 6 February 2020 HL received Mr Ws instructions to liquidate the SIPP and transfer the 
proceeds to SJP; and on 13 February it received instructions to do the same with the ISA.
HL confirms receipt of the SIPP instructions on 6 February. It says it initially processed the 
instructions on 21 February, that the SIPP was liquidated on 9 March and that the proceeds 
were transferred out on 17 March.
HL also confirms receipt of the ISA instructions on 13 February. It says it initially processed 
the instructions on 25 February, that the ISA was liquidated over 4 and 5 March, and that the 
proceeds were transferred out on 13 March.
Mr W confirms, with supporting evidence from his SJP account statements, that subsequent 
to the transfer of his SIPP he retained 25% of the cash proceeds, as per his entitlement, and 
made the rest available for reinvestment; that, because markets world-wide were in free fall 
from early February onwards  he had instructed SJP not to reinvest the SIPP and ISA 
until market conditions improved; and that this explains why the majority of the transferred 
cash was not reinvested until 19 March.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He said mainly as follows:
Mr Ws core argument is that HLs transfer process should have been consistent with 
the industry standard Transfer and Re-Registration Group (TRIG) protocol which 
says transfers should happen within five working days. In response, HLs position 
refers to a Service Level Agreement (SLA) based 30 days guideline for transfers. In 
addition, HL has offered Mr W £150 compensation for the transfer taking longer than 
30 days.
The issue to consider is not only about applying guidelines, it is also about 
considering how the transfers happened, whether they happened as quickly as they 
reasonably could have and whether (or not) there were avoidable delays. In this 
regard, there are significant gaps of activity  showing unexplained inactivity  in the 
ISA transfer process between 13 February and 4 March; and in the SIPP transfer 
process between 6 February and 9 March. This meant the ISA transfer was 
inexplicably delayed by two weeks and the SIPP transfer was inexplicably delayed by 
three weeks. HL says Mr W could have liquidated his investments himself and that 
he did so for some investments, but the fact remains that HL had been instructed to 
conduct the liquidations and Mr W expected that, so he cannot reasonably be held 
responsible for not liquidating them himself.
To provide redress to Mr W in this matter HL should treat the SIPP as if it was 
liquidated on 13 February and treat the ISA as if it was liquidated on 20 February; 
and HL should compensate Mr W for any loss in values in both respects caused by 
the delays in both being liquidated and transferred. This compensation should be 
paid to him in addition to the £150 already offered by HL.
HL responded to the investigators view to say that it had reviewed the matter and had 
concluded similarly with regards to Mr Ws SIPP  that is, it accepts it should have acted 
faster in the transfer process for the SIPPP, it should have done so in line with TRIG and 
Associated British Insurers guidelines for SIPP transfers, it should have liquidated the SIPP 
by 13 February and it should have completed the transfer by 19 February. HL agreed to 
calculate loss of value compensation for Mr W based on any value he lost from the SIPP not 
being liquidated on 13 February. It also offered to look into loss of value compensation for 
him based on the effect of the delayed transfer upon his reinvestments in the SJP SIPP and 
it invited details of those reinvestments in order to do so.
HL disagreed with the investigators view with regards to Mr Ws ISA. It argued that its 30 
days SLA guideline for non-cash ISA transfers  which is also reflected in its terms and 
conditions  is consistent with HMRCs 30 days guidance for such transfers; that it liquidates 
ISAs at the last point before transfer in order to minimise the holders time out of the 
markets; and on this basis the ISA transfer instructed on 13 February should have been 
completed on 16 March and its assets should have been liquidated on 10 March. 
HL considered its overall response to be reasonable and considered that the matter could be 
resolved as it had set out, without call for further involvement from this service. The 
investigator disagreed with its position on the ISA transfer and repeated his view that 
unjustified avoidable delays could not reasonably be ignored, so his finding on the ISA 
transfer issue remains unchanged. Mr W also provided this service with information about 
his SJP SIPP and ISA investments as requested by HL. The matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties, and the investigator, agree that liquidation and transfer of Mr Ws SIPP was 
unduly delayed by HL; that it should have been liquidated on 13 February 2020; and that    
Mr W should be compensated for loss of value in the liquidation of his HL SIPP  that is, any 
loss of value arising between what the SIPP could have been liquidated for on 13 February 
and what is was liquidated for on 9 March. None of these appear to be in dispute, so they do 
not require my determination. However, for the sake of completeness, I confirm that I have 
considered the matter afresh and that I share the investigators findings (and reasons) with 
regards to HLs handling of Mr Ws SIPP transfer. I do the same with regards to the 
investigators redress proposal, which has been agreed by HL and which I reflect in my 
redress order further below.
I also consider that the £150 offered by HL to Mr W is a reasonable amount to compensate 
him for the trouble and upset the delayed transfers caused him. It is an amount that is 
broadly consistent with the level of award, for trouble, upset and inconvenience, that this 
service has made in comparable cases.It should be implicit within my reference to delayed transfers above that I consider both 
transfers to have been unduly delayed, including the matter of the ISA transfer that HL 
disputes. Again, I share the investigators finding  which I endorse  and reasoning in this 
respect. My focus is also on available evidence of the same unexplained and seemingly 
avoidable inaction  and therefore delay  by HL in the ISA transfer process.
I accept HLs entitlement to take guidance from HMRCs guidelines, I also accept available 
evidence of the terms and conditions reference to HL seeking to complete ISA transfers 
within 30 days. Furthermore, I understand HLs arguments that compliance with a 30 days 
transfer period includes allowances for due process (including placement of the transfer in a 
queue) and that progress of the transfer was dependent on the administration applied to it 
and on a firms workload. 
However, overall and on balance, I am not satisfied that evidence shows the ISA transfer 
was meaningfully and/or actively being processed during the relevant period(s) of inaction 
that the investigator and I have focused on. Whilst there was no explicit requirement for the 
transfer to reach a particular stage at a particular time, it is reasonable to say that 
unexplained periods of inaction should not be condoned. As summarised in the background 
section above, upon receipt of the ISA transfer instruction on 13 February it was not 
processed until 12 days later on 25 February, then no liquidation happened until eight days 
thereafter on 4 March (concluding on 5 March). Even with due queuing and administrative 
process, the periods (either wholly or partly) of seeming inactivity  which do not appear to 
have been specifically explained  in this timeline summary cannot reasonably be justified. 
There were notable delays both before and after processing  and before liquidation.
HL says this service has upheld use of a 30 days transfer period in other cases. Each case 
is determined on its own facts. Given the facts in the present case  and as I said above  
the issue is mainly about HLs delays in the actual ISA transfer process and not about the 
overall 30 days transfer guideline that it relies upon. 
Overall, on balance, for the above reasons and given available evidence, I am persuaded 
that Mr Ws ISA should have been liquidated by 20 February, a week after its transfer was 
instructed. 
Putting things right
Redress for Mr Ws delayed SIPP transfer
HL accepts this services findings on redress for this issue and it offered to extend its 
consideration of redress beyond loss of value at HLs end of the transfer process to the 
consideration of loss of [reinvestment] value at the SJP end of the process. 
However, as stated in the background above, it is Mr Ws evidence that he intended to delay 
 and did delay  reinvestment of the SIPP due to market events from early February 2020 
onwards. He thereafter began the reinvestments on 19 March. As such, I do not consider it 
reasonable for HL to undertake responsibility for loss of reinvestment value. Even if HL had 
liquidated the SIPP on 13 February and completed its transfer on 19 February  both of 
which it should have done  reinvestment of the proceeds would probably (if not certainly) 
have been delayed, by Mr Ws choice, until 19 March. 
HL must compensate Mr W only for loss of liquidation value, by doing as follows:
HL must calculate the total proceeds generated from the liquidation of Mr Ws SIPP  
this is represented by a.
HL must calculate the liquidation proceeds that would have been generated if Mr Ws SIPP was liquidated on 13 February 2020  this is represented by b.
If b is greater than a, HL must pay Mr W the difference as compensation for lost 
liquidation value.
HL must pay Mr W interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, if HL does not pay him the 
compensation within 28 days of being informed of his acceptance of this decision. 
This is to compensate Mr W for any undue delay in HL paying him the compensation. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If HL is required by HMRC to 
deduct income tax from the interest, it must tell Mr W the deduction amount and give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate.
HL should, if possible, pay the compensation (and any interest) into Mr Ws pension 
plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation should not be paid into his pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. If the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid 
into his pension plan, HL must pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it 
into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income, so the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. If he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
HL must provide Mr W with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Redress for Mr Ws delayed ISA transfer
HL should have liquidated Mr Ws ISA on 20 February 2020, and the ISA transfer should 
have been completed shortly thereafter. HL has made the same offer to look into loss of 
reinvestment value at the SJP end of the transfer process. However, for the same reasons 
given above, I do not consider it fair for HL to undertake responsibility for such loss. As 
explained above, it is Mr Ws evidence that from early February 2020 his intention was to 
suspend all investments until market conditions improved. He did not begin reinvestments 
until 19 March, so even if HL had transferred the ISA liquidation proceeds soon after 20 
February the relevant cash would probably (if not certainly) have remained uninvested, by 
Mr Ws choice, until 19 March. 
HL must compensate Mr W only for loss of liquidation value, by doing as follows:
HL must calculate the total proceeds generated from the liquidation of Mr Ws ISA  
this is represented by a.
HL must calculate the liquidation proceeds that would have been generated if Mr Ws 
ISA was liquidated on 20 February 2020  this is represented by b.
If b is greater than a, HL must pay Mr W the difference as compensation for lost 
liquidation value.
HL must pay Mr W interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, if HL does not pay him the 
compensation within 28 days of being informed of his acceptance of this decision. 
This is to compensate Mr W for any undue delay in HL paying him the compensation.
HL should, if possible, pay the compensation (and any interest) into Mr Ws ISA, 
otherwise it must pay the compensation (and any interest) to him directly. 
HL must provide Mr W with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
For the above reasons I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I order Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited, trading as Hargreaves Lansdown, to compensate him as set out 
above and to provide him with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman