DRN-3132995
The complaint
Mr D complains that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Loans2Go lent Mr D one loan in October 2019. The loan was for a £1,000 over 18 months 
with monthly repayments of £228.56. Over the term of the loan, Mr D was due to repay 
around £4,114. As I understand it, theres still a balance outstanding on the loan.
When Mr D complained to Loans2Go, it didnt uphold his complaint and so he referred it to 
this service, one of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think Loans2Go 
should have lent to Mr D.
Loans2Go disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.  
Loans2Go has provided evidence to show that before lending this loan, it asked Mr D about 
his monthly income and expenses. I can also see that it searched his credit file. Loans2Go 
reviewed the information Mr D provided and lent on the basis that his income was less than 
what he declared, and his expenses were more than he declared. It says it added a further 
10% buffer to Mr Ds expenses and based on that calculation Mr D could afford the loan.
However, Im mindful of the length of this loan and the cost of the borrowing, Mr D was due 
to repay four times the loan amount by the end of the term. This wasnt an insignificant sum 
and I think in those circumstances, Loans2Go should have wanted to get a thorough 
understanding of Mr Ds circumstances before lending. Also, Mr D said he was borrowing the 
loan for debt consolidation purposes, but I cant see that Loans2Go explored what debts he 
was consolidating and how that would have impacted his monthly outgoings. 
Mr D has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time, which Ive used to 
build a picture of his finances, and I can see that Mr D was spending significant sums on 
betting transactions, for example in the month before the loan was granted Mr Ds income 
was around £1,547 and he spent around £2,000 on spread betting. The bank statements 
also show Mr D was also borrowing from at least three other high cost lenders. I think had 
Loans2Go taken its checks further to build a better understanding of Mr Ds circumstances, it 
would have likely seen that Mr Ds finances were would be adversely impacted by this loan, 
and as a responsible lender, wouldnt have lent.
Based on the available information, I dont think Loans2Go should have lent to Mr D and it 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right  what Loans2Go needs to do;
remove all interest, fees and charges added to the loan;
treat all payments Mr D has made as payments towards the capital loan amount of 
£1,000;
if there are overpayments above the capital, add 8% simple interest on those 
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans2Go should agree a suitable repayment 
plan with Mr D;
remove any negative information about loans from Mr Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman