DRN-3552305
The complaint
Mr T complains about the delays by Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) in providing him 
with early settlement quotations for his car finance agreement. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been outlined by the 
investigator previously so I wont repeat them again here. 
In May 2022, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intention not to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
As a starting point, Ive referred to the agreement and it says the following:
Early repayment
You have the right to repay the amount you owe under this agreement early in part or in full, 
at any time. If you wish to exercise this right, you should call our customer service on 
[deleted] or email [deleted].
It goes on to say:
payment should be made (and funds cleared) within 28 days beginning with the day after 
the day that we receive your notice, or on or before any later date specified in your notice. 
You may be due a rebate of interest. If requested, we will write to you to let you know the 
details of whether you are due a rebate or not and we will tell you the implications this will 
have on your future repayments
Having considered Mr Ts testimony and Moneybarns system notes, Im satisfied he made a 
request for a partial settlement quotation in September 2020. Due to the impact of the Covid-
19 pandemic on Moneybarns operations, they said there were experiencing difficulty 
generating the same. Theyve explained the pandemic was an unprecedented event and 
their systems and processes werent set up to handle payment deferrals at such large 
volumes and this had a subsequent impact on providing early settlement quotations. 
Although the terms dont specify the number of days for an early settlement quotation to be 
given generally speaking, I would expect it to be provided within seven days following the 
date of the request. While I accept the disruption to Moneybarns operation and the wider 
context of the pandemic, I dont find the delay was reasonable. I note the partial settlement 
quotation wasnt provided until December 2020 which is when Moneybarn provided their 
final response to the complaint. This was some three months after Mr Ts initial request so I 
can understand his frustration about this.
Moneybarn accept their advisors gave conflicting information to Mr T concerning the number 
of missed payments he had to pay in order to bring the account up to date so a partial 
settlement quotation could be provided. This failure isnt in dispute. As a resolution to both 
issues, Moneybarn have paid £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Having thought about the likely impact of the situation on Mr T, I believe this amount of 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
As a secondary complaint, Mr T complained about the length of time it had taken Moneybarn 
to address his complaint. He stressed that during that time he was required to pay the 
monthly instalments plus interest meaning he had missed out the associated interest rebate 
had he made a partial settlement. Again Moneybarn recognised the delay and explained it 
was due to similar issues as mentioned above relating to the pandemic. In response, they 
offered to backdate a partial settlement quotation of £3,000 to 2 September 2020 which is 
when Mr T initially made the request. They said if he wished to do this, he must give them 
prior notification so their finance department could make the relevant adjustments to the 
account. 
I know Mr T said he didnt want an early settlement quotation for £3,000 but for £4,000 and 
he was unhappy he wasnt contacted prior to clarify the same. Moneybarn has provided an 
explanation as to why they used this figure. In summary, they said during the call in 
September 2020, Mr T said he could pay £4,175 towards the agreement. On the basis that 
he had to pay three months missed payments due to the Covid-19 payment deferral (£901) 
to bring the account up to date, this would leave £3,273. While I think it wouldve been 
helpful for them to have clarified with Mr T the exact amount he wanted the quotation for, 
especially given some time had passed since it was initially requested, I can understand why 
Moneybarn generated a partial settlement quotation for £3,000 and I find it was reasonable 
for them to do so. 
In their final response to this secondary complaint, Moneybarn said if Mr T wished to pay 
£3,273 as partial settlement towards the agreement, they would agree to this amount being 
backdated as if it were paid on 2 September 2020, but he must give them prior notice so 
their finance team can make the relevant adjustments. In the circumstances, I consider this 
to be a fair and reasonable offer as it put Mr T as close to the position he wouldve been in 
had he received the partial settlement quotation and proceeded to make the payment as he 
reports he wouldve done. From my understanding, Mr T didnt accept this offer and it was 
his decision not to do so but I cant say Moneybarn didnt act fairly.
Ive also considered Mr Ts comments that it was his intention to make a partial settlement in 
September 2020, followed by a full settlement shortly afterwards, around October 2020. 
Based on evidence, the account was settled in full in February 2021 however he said due to 
the delays in providing the partial settlement quotes he couldve settled it in full earlier 
meaning he wouldve received a higher interest rebate.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ts comments about his financial ability to settle the account in 
full and Ive reviewed the bank statements hes provided. The statement covers December 
2020 and I can see there is around £8,000 held in a cash ISA account. This doesnt cover 
October 2020 which is when Mr T said he planned to settle it in full. However even if I was to 
accept he had this level of savings in October 2020 and he was willing to use all of it towards 
settling the agreement, this wouldnt have been enough to clear the balance. 
Mr T also made a request for a full settlement quotation around December 2020. However 
for similar reasons as outlined above, on balance Im not persuaded he wouldve had the 
money to settle the account in full in December 2020. So unlike the investigator, I dont find 
Moneybarn needs to backdate the full settlement quotation to December 2020 and refund 
the associated interest. 
Taking everything into account, its clear the level of service provided by Moneybarn has 
fallen below what a reasonable person would expect. However Im satisfied theyve done 
enough to put things right so I wont be asking them to do anything further.Both Mr T and Moneybarn were invited to provide any further comments or information but 
no response was received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman