DRN-2831607
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to cover a
store card in 2001. Miss L says that AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI.
AXA has taken responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint. So, I will refer to AXA in my 
decision.
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint  but didnt think that the policy had been mis-sold
to Miss L, so didnt uphold it.
Miss L disagreed with this  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account when deciding Miss Ls case.
Having looked at all the information available to me, Ive decided that the PPI policy wasnt
mis-sold to Miss L. I know this will be disappointing for Miss L, so Ill explain the reasons 
why.
AXA had to make Miss L aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before
adding it to her card. Miss L has told us she was led to believe she had to take the policy. I 
cant be certain what was said at the time Miss L applied for the PPI, but AXA has provided a 
copy of the paperwork completed at the time.
The application form Miss L completed at the time she applied for the card and PPI had a
separate section for the policy that had to be signed separately from signing for the card
itself to take the PPI. Miss L did sign separately to take the cover so I think she would have
been aware the policy was optional, and that she didnt have to take it. Without further
evidence that the policy wasnt presented as optional, I am unable to uphold this complaint
for this reason.
Miss L says she would have received generous sick pay if she was away from work due to
Illness. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss Ls sick pay, and for longer than 
she would have received full pay. 
Miss L has also told us she was only working part-time so would have been caught by the 
restrictions of the policy. I have thought about this, but the form Miss L signed when she took 
the policy had the full-time employment selection ticked. Miss L signed this form in 
confirmation of the options that had been selected. In addition to this we have asked Miss L 
for further evidence of her employment at the time, that we have not been provided with. So, 
with the information available I am unable to confirm Miss L was only working part-time when 
she took the policy.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ls circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
So, I think it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
Which means AXA doesnt have to pay back to Miss L the cost of the policy.
.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman