DRN-4507764
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him when he was 
the victim of a job scam.
Mr G is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr G throughout 
this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
Mr G was contacted by a recruitment company, who Ill refer to as (R) via WhatsApp. He 
was told of a job opportunity working for a company, who Ill refer to here as (S). Mr G 
said he checked the legitimacy of R and S online and had no cause for concern. And he 
said hed been actively looking for work, so the contact from R was not unexpected. 
Mr G performed tasks for S relating to data optimisation. He said he was given access to 
an online platform where he could see the tasks hed completed and was able to speak 
regularly with other employees of S who supported him through the process. Mr G 
received payment by way of commission which he said he paid into an existing account he 
already held with a legitimate crypto exchange  which Ill refer to here as (B). 
Initially, Mr G said he received payment for the work he completed and was able to 
withdraw money. But then Mr G had to make payments to access the tasks he needed to 
complete. Payment was made by purchasing crypto via B which Mr G then transferred to 
what he believed was his job wallet. 
Mr G said he believed he was placing the crypto into a job wallet to act as a deposit for 
tasks. But unbeknown to him, the money was being transferred to the scammer. 
On 30 March 2023 Mr G made three payments to B, via its payment processing company, 
as follows:
Payment amount
£1,370
£2,801
£4,500
HSBC flagged the £4,500 payment as suspicious and spoke to Mr G. Satisfied with the 
responses he gave to its questions; HSBC released the payment. 
Mr G became suspicious that he was being scammed when he was asked to pay larger 
amounts to access the tasks. He was then unable to withdraw any money and contacted 
HSBC on 3 April 2023. HSBC said that because the funds had gone to Mr Gs account 
with B  he should raise the matter with B. 
Mr G complained to HSBC. It said it had spoken to Mr G about the £4,500 payment and 
asked him appropriate questions and provided suitable warnings. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
He didnt think HSBC had asked probing enough questions when it spoke to him about the 
£4,500 payment to have alerted him to the risks of job scams. He also thought HSBC 
shouldve intervened in the first payment given the risks associated with payments to crypto 
exchanges. So, he didnt think HSBC had done enough to protect him. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. On listening to the 
telephone call between Mr G and HSBC in relation to the £4,500 payment, she thought 
HSBC had done enough to protect Mr G and that he hadnt been open and honest with 
the answers he provided. Our Investigator also noted that Mr G had received tailored 
written warnings about payments relating to crypto. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. He maintained 
that HSBC hadnt asked him probing enough questions specific to job scams  and an 
assumption had been made by HSBC that this was a crypto investment. Mr G said HSBC 
never asked who he was investing with or what he was investing in  which had it done so, 
he said he wouldve explained the full circumstances of the payment insofar as it related to 
a job  not an investment. 
Mr G said there were several red flags about the payment that HSBC wouldve uncovered if 
it had asked the right questions. This included that he wasnt investing the funds but instead 
paying them into a job account to withdraw his earnings; that he was transferring these 
funds to accounts supplied by a customer service representative over social media; and 
that he had recently been added to a group chat with other colleagues sharing screenshots 
of their profits. 
Mr G said these were all clear hallmarks of a job scam that HSBC shouldve uncovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Mr G was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear 
hes been the victim of a scam and has lost money as a result. I can understand why 
hed want to do all he can to recover the money hes lost. But I need to decide whether 
HSBC can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Mr Gs loss. Overall, Ive 
decided that it cant be. Ill explain why.
I accept the transactions Mr G made were authorised payments, even though he was 
the victim of a job scam. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her 
account, Mr G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in 
its dealings with Mr G when he made the payments, specifically whether it shouldve done 
more than it did before processing them.
Mr G thinks HSBC shouldve intervened in the first payment made on 30 March 2023 
given its size and because it was related to crypto. But I dont think that payment was so 
unusual to have flagged as suspicious. It isnt uncommon for customers to make a one-off 
larger payment during normal account activity. And I can see that Mr G made other 
payments to B (not as part of this scam) for £1,000 on 24 January 2023, £500 on 
6 October 2022 and £400 on 22 May 2022. So, the £1,370 payment wasnt at odds with 
previous payments Mr G had made. 
Arguably the second payment, made shortly after the first one, was more suspicious. This 
payment was larger than the first and meant Mr G had transferred over £4,000 to B in a 
very short period. 
HSBC has provided evidence to show Mr G was sent a tailored written warning about 
crypto when he made the second payment. I appreciate the written warning made no 
specific reference to job scams  and only sought to highlight the key features of a crypto 
investment scam. But given the information available to HSBC at that time; that Mr G had 
made two payments to a crypto exchange in a short period of time that had increased in 
value  I think the written warning was proportionate and relevant to the risk HSBC had 
identified. 
The crux of this complaint centres on the interaction between Mr G and HSBC in relation 
to the third payment of £4,500. Where there is interaction between a bank and its 
customer about a payment, wed expect the bank to ask questions and provide 
appropriate warnings against potential scams so its customer could make an informed 
decision as to whether to continue with the payment.
Ive listened to the telephone call between Mr G and HSBC from 30 March 2023. 
HSBC asked Mr G if he made the payment himself and he said yes. HSBC noticed that 
Mr G had made multiple payments to B, and it asked Mr G to confirm that previous 
payments had been received by B. Mr G said they had. 
HSBC asked Mr G if he would be making any more payments to B. He said yes  it was 
for the payment of cryptocurrency. Mr G confirmed he had received and understood the 
written warnings. 
HSBC then asked Mr G questions about the purpose of the payment. It specifically asked 
Mr G are you investing in cryptocurrency? He said yes. 
HSBC then provided more general warnings to Mr G about being contacted by fraudsters pretending to be from HSBC or the police, and coaching customers on what to say if 
questioned by HSBC. Mr G said this didnt apply to him. 
HSBC then asked Mr G how he found out about the investment. Its not entirely clear what 
Mr G says in response due to the poor quality of the recording  but Im satisfied theres 
no mention of it being related to a job. HSBC asked Mr G if he had invested in this crypto 
currency before. Mr G said not in this currency  but in the past he has invested in other 
cryptos.
HSBC then asked questions around Mr Gs interaction with B. Mr G confirmed he had full 
control of his crypto wallet and opened it around 10 years ago. 
Mr G asked HSBC if investing in crypto is legal. HSBC said yes  but it has to check its 
customers are not the victim of a scam. HSBC confirmed its understanding that Mr G had 
been doing this for some time and had access to his wallet, so it was satisfied the checks 
were complete. 
Mr G then confirmed he was happy for the payment to be released. 
Ive thought carefully about whether HSBC asked the right questions during its 
interaction with Mr G to fully understand the nature of the transaction he was trying to 
make. And on balance I do think it did enough. 
Firstly, Mr G seemingly understood and accepted why the payment was blocked. He was 
engaged in the conversation with HSBC and was confident in his responses. So, I dont 
think HSBC had any obvious reason to doubt what Mr G was saying. 
The key point here is whether HSBCs line of questioning was sufficient to have uncovered 
that Mr G was the victim of a job scam. HSBC very clearly asked Mr G if he was investing 
in crypto  to which he said yes. Its understandable, therefore, that HSBCs questions 
thereafter related specifically to crypto investment scams. 
I appreciate Mr G mightve looked upon the payments he was making to get access to the 
job tasks as a form of investment, and he and HSBC were possibly talking at cross 
purposes here. But I cant say HSBC acted unreasonably given Mr G specifically said he 
was investing in crypto. And because of the prevalence of crypto investment scams at that 
time, HSBCs focus, not unreasonably, was on the hallmarks of crypto investment scams, 
not job scams in its follow up questions to Mr G.
I have however thought very carefully if there were any missed opportunities for HSBC to 
have picked up on the fact this was a job scam. And I dont think there were. 
HSBC asked Mr G if he was being coached by anyone  and how he found out about the 
investment. But at no time did Mr G mention the contact he had from R or S or that he 
was being guided by other employees of S via group chats. The focus of Mr Gs 
responses was consistently linked to investments  what crypto hed invested in before 
and that hed had his account with B for around 10 years. And at the end of the call Mr G 
asked HSBC about the legality of investing in crypto, further reinforcing that this was what 
the £4,500 payment related to. Based on that, I cant say it was unreasonable for HSBC 
not to have deviated from this line of questioning unless Mr G gave it some reason to do 
so - which I dont think he did. 
As Ive mentioned above, its not clear from the telephone call recording what Mr Gs exact 
response was to HSBCs question about how he found out about the investment. This 
wouldve been a prime opportunity for Mr G to have explained the background to what the payment was for  and it does sound like he makes some reference to not investing. But 
there is no mention of a job, and then he talks about why he has chosen to invest in the 
crypto he has, further demonstrating that the payment was for investment purposes.
Mr G has said HSBC shouldve been aware of the prevalence of job scams and their link to 
crypto payments, and with that in mind, asked more probing questions around what exactly 
the £4,500 payment was for. And he thinks HSBC shouldve asked more open-ended 
questions to tease out the background to the investment. But HSBC did ask Mr G how he 
found out about the investment, which I maintain did provide Mr G with an opportunity to 
divulge the fact the payment  which he mightve perceived as an investment  was to 
allow him access to job tasks. And so, whilst I accept that HSBC should be aware of job 
scams, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr G provided HSBC with 
enough accurate information to have enabled it to question him any further on the reason 
for the payment, or to have challenged him on the responses he gave.  
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mr G has been the victim of a cruel 
job scam. But I think HSBC did enough to try and protect him. So, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for Mr Gs loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman