DRN-1943415
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc cancelled his account card without telling him whilst 
he was on holiday.
What happened
Mr P says he was convinced by HSBC in July 2019 to upgrade his account. He says he told 
HSBC that he was due to leave for a family holiday and was likely to be travelling after that. 
Mr P says he was told a new account card would arrive in two weeks but didnt receive it 
before he left for his holiday. He says on 5 August 2019 his existing account card stopped 
working and was caused significant difficulties as a result. Mr P says he wasnt told that 
would take place and then had problems trying to organise a new card. He says if HSBC told 
him it would be cancelling his existing card then he wouldnt have agreed to the new account 
and says he was told by a HSBC staff member that she didnt know that would happen.
Mr P says in summary his holiday was ruined and he lost out on time with his family and had 
to refuse them activities as he couldnt pay for them. He would like about £25,000 
compensation.
HSBC says Mr P was told he would receive a new account card and says he told it he would 
be able to collect the card in about two weeks after the account was changed. It says it didnt 
need to tell Mr P the old account card would no longer work after a month and he ought to 
have told it before he went on holiday that he hadnt received the new card. HSBC does 
accept making mistakes in dealing with Mr P when he raised the problem and has paid £300 
compensation for that and says it will look at paying any expenses caused by how it dealt 
with those service issues and in not replying to an e-mail.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the £300 compensation fair 
and reasonable for that part of the complaint. And thought it unlikely Mr P was told the 
account card would not work after 30 days. The investigator didnt think the compensation 
Mr P would like was justified.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says £300 doesnt pay for the loss of enjoyment of his 
holiday or take into account that he was the only family member that could provide financial 
support for his family whilst on holiday.
I asked both sides for further information and HSBC has told me its records confirm the new 
card was sent to the correct address. Mr P has told me he doesnt have other accounts that 
he could have used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Mr P will be disappointed by my decision.
I accept there is no dispute here that HSBC didnt tell Mr P that his existing account card 
would no longer work after 30 days. But Im satisfied that it ought to have been obvious to Mr 
P that was the case as he upgraded his account and was told that a new account card would 
be sent to him. I think there would be little point sending a new account card but allowing the 
previous card that was for a different type of account to still work. Im also satisfied that 
having looked at HSBCs records that a new account card was sent to the correct address. 
And in those circumstances, I would have expected Mr P to have told HSBC that he hadnt 
received the new account card before he left for his holiday. I dont think HSBC could have 
known Mr P hadnt received it unless it was told. So, I dont think HSBC is responsible for the 
problems Mr P experienced when he attempted to use his old account card whilst abroad.
There is no dispute here that HSBC didnt deal with Mr Ps situation as it should and didnt 
reply to an e-mail. I appreciate that isnt the main part of Mr Ps complaint but Im satisfied 
HSBC has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for that. I think that award 
fairly reflects that part of the complaint and the inconvenience Mr P was caused. I also think 
HSBC fairly offered to pay for Mr Ps expenses caused by how it dealt with events after the 
account card stopped working and its customer service issues.
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons I have explained. In those 
circumstances I cant fairly order HSBC to pay the £25,000 compensation Mr P would like. 
Im satisfied this brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this dispute informally can do 
to help Mr P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman