DRN-3901931
The complaint
Mr B and Ms M are unhappy with the length of time it took Standard Life Assurance Limited 
to accept and pay a Total Permanent Disability (TPD) claim in respect of Mr B.
What happened
Mr B and Ms M had the benefit of a joint life mortgage protection insurance plan which 
included a decreasing term (the policy). The policy could pay out a sum of money if one of 
them met the definition of TPD as defined by the policy terms. 
Many years ago, Mr B was involved in an incident which resulted in significant loss of feeling 
below his hip. He also lives with medical conditions which cause him pain and impact his 
ability to carry out certain normal day to day activities.  
In or around 2018, Mr B made a claim for TPD under the policy, which was declined by 
Standard Life as it concluded that the terms of TPD hadnt been met. It concluded that hip 
surgery could improve his functionality. A complaint was brought to our service, and we 
concluded that Standard Lifes decision was fair and reasonable. 
However, Standard Life had accepted a claim for waiver premium benefit, which covered the 
monthly premium payable for the policy. This was subject to periodic reviews. 
Mr B had hip surgery in 2018. Ultimately, Mr B says this didnt improve his functionality. 
Standard Life kept the claim under review as part of its review of waiver premium benefit. 
And in early 2022, Standard Life arranged for Mr B to undergo a functional capacity 
evaluation (FCE). The FCE report was prepared in April 2022. In light of the report, in June 
2022, Standard Life agreed that Mr B met the definition of TPD.
It agreed to pay Mr B the benefit amount as of December 2019. Thats because Mr Bs 
orthopaedic surgeon had reported in early 2019 that Mr B shouldve recovered within 18 
months of his hip surgery taking place. The benefit amount in December 2019 was around 
£7,000 more than the benefit amount in June 2022. Standard Life also paid interest at a rate 
of around 0.1% per year on the benefit amount from December 2019 to June 2022. 
Mr B didnt think that was fair, so he complained to our service. He says that it shouldnt 
have taken Standard Life until 2022 to arrange a FCE and there was enough information 
before 2022 to show that hed met the definition of TPD under the policy. He says that 
Standard Life ought to pay interest at a rate of 8% per year on the benefit amount paid as 
opposed to around 0.1%. He says thats in line with many decisions issued by our service. 
Mr B also says that because his claim wasnt accepted and paid in 2019, he experienced 
significant financial losses including additional mortgage expenses, he couldnt afford to 
maintain his car and defaulted on borrowing which has severely damaged his credit rating.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B 
disagreed and raised many points in reply. These didnt change our investigators opinion 
and Mr B requested an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr B for taking the time to set out in detail why he thinks Standard 
Life hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled the claim made under the policy 
for TPD  particularly since his hip surgery, and the delay in accepting his claim. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than he has, and in my own 
words. The parties have provided a considerable amount of information but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. The rules that govern our service allow me 
to do this as we are an informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment 
on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome here.
Secondly, my role is to resolve individual disputes. In considering whats fair and reasonable, 
I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle insurance claims 
promptly and fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
When making a claim, its for the relevant policyholder (in this case, Mr B) to establish that 
theres a valid claim under the policy and that the definition of TPD has been met. Its not for 
an insurer (in this case, Standard Life), to show that this definition hasnt been met.
The schedule of insurance reflects that the relevant definition of TPD relates to activities of 
daily working. 
The policy terms say that for a claim to be accepted under the policy Mr B must be unable by 
reason of illness or injury to carry out at 3 of the 8 stipulated activities. Those relevant to this 
complaint are: 
- Walking  the ability to walk a distance of 200 metres on flat ground without the aid of 
a walking stick and without stopping or experiencing discomfort.
- Climbing  the ability to walk up or down a flight of 12 stairs without holding onto a 
rail or resting.
- Bending  the ability to bend or kneel to pick something from the floor and stand up 
again and the ability to get into and out of a standard saloon car. 
The policy goes on to say the disability must be irreversible with no reasonable prospect of 
there ever being any improvement and occur before the life insured reaches the age of 65.
Under the policy irreversible means: cannot be cured by medical treatment and/or surgical 
procedures used by the National Health Service in the UK at the time of the claim.The FCE dated April 2022 supports that Mr B was unable to do three of the stipulated 
activities (walking, climbing and bending). The report also says Mr B demonstrates multiple 
health problems and some loss of function. [Mr B] continues to receive physiotherapy and 
may attend future pain management. [Mr B]s function does appear permanent and unlikely 
to improve; balance issues and aspects of orthopaedic pain in particular are complex and 
enduring.
In light of this report, and in conjunction with the other evidence available, Standard Lifes 
Chief Medical Officer (CMO) concluded in May 2022 that a TPD claim had been established. 
And Standard Life accepted the claim in June 2022.
The terms of the policy reflect that once Standard Life has received satisfactory proof that Mr 
B has a total permanent disability as defined by the policy, it will cancel the policy on the 
date the claim is accepted and pay the TPD benefit shown on the policy schedule.
 
As the claim was accepted in June 2022, the benefit amount on the schedule of insurance 
was around £47,000. However, Standard Life agreed to depart from the terms of the policy 
and use the benefit sum as it wouldve been had the claim been accepted in December 
2019; just over £54,000. 
Although, Standard Life has agreed to do this, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by failing to accept Mr Bs TPD claim in December 2019 or failing to arrange a FCE 
assessment around that time. Thats because:
in January 2019, Mr Bs consultant orthopaedic surgeon reported that Mr B 
underwent hip surgery in June 2018, and hed progressed well. The report reflects 
that: we can anticipate improvement in his hip function for up to 18 months following 
the surgerywe would not anticipate any significant impact on his ability to mobilise 
normally for standard bending tasks there would be no restriction So, Im 
satisfied that the medical evidence from early 2019, supports that it was envisaged 
by the end of 2019 (18 months after hip surgery), Mr Bs hip wouldnt cause any 
restriction in bending.
Standard life kept the claim under review. The medical evidence it obtained towards 
the end of 2019, reflected that Mr B was still reporting pain in his hip and having 
trouble bending. However, at that stage he was still under investigation, so I think it 
was fair and reasonable for Standard Life to await the outcome of further medical 
investigations to see whether Mr B met the policy definition of TPD.
a letter from Mr Bs consultant neurosurgeon - also from the end of 2019 - reflects Mr 
B was still in pain. Certain medication was suggested to Mr B as well as a referral to 
a pain clinic.
the information obtained by Standard Life earlier in 2021 made no mention of Mr B 
being referred back to the pain clinic or being referred for further physiotherapy. So, I 
dont think Standard Life has unreasonably relied on it CMOs advice in March 2021 
which said alternative treatment options could result in significant functional 
improvement as whether those options were being pursued would be relevant to 
whether Mr Bs disability was permanent and irreversible.
by the date of the next review towards the end of 2021, Mr B had confirmed that he 
hadnt been receiving any treatment apart from pain medication. He also said that he 
hadnt had any other treatment in the last 15 months. The subsequent GP report also 
confirmed that no further investigation  or change to treatment - was planned. So, I 
think Standard Life reasonably concluded at that time that a referral to the pain clinic 
hadnt been made and there had been no further physiotherapy. So as of early 2022, taking into account the information it had received  including medical 
evidence - Im satisfied that Standard Life had fairly concluded Mr B hadnt established that 
hed met the definition of TPD under the policy. 
I know Mr B says that hed been chasing Standard Life for clarification regarding the 
information he might need to produce in support of his claim. And if hed known that it was 
for him to establish his claim and about the importance of the FCE, he wouldve arranged 
this earlier. However, even if the FCE had been prepared earlier, I dont think it follows that 
the claim wouldve been accepted earlier. I dont know if the content of any FCE prepared 
wouldve been similar to the report produced in 2022. And even if it was, as Mr B hadnt yet 
explored alternative treatments, its likely that Standard Life wouldve maintained its position 
that although Mr B might have been unable to do three of the eight stipulated activities , it 
hadnt been established that his disability was irreversible. And in the circumstances of this 
case, I think that wouldve been fair based on my findings above about the available 
evidence from 2019 to early 2022 inclusive. 
Mr B says that he wouldve also been able to produce further medical evidence. But 
Standard Life had been requesting updated medical evidence from his GP when reviewing 
his waiver of premium benefit, so I dont think its likely that he wouldve been able to 
produce other, more persuasive, medical evidence that hadnt been requested by Standard 
Life during the period 2019 to end of 2021.
However, I can see in February 2022  after Standard Life had mentioned the possible 
treatments that hadnt yet been explored to Mr B  he explained why the medication 
suggested by his neurologist at the end of 2019 wouldnt have been suitable for him. Further, 
he mentioned attending a pain clinic years before and trying various non-medicinal 
treatments with limited benefit. 
Importantly, I think in this case, he also mentioned having x-rays a few weeks before on his 
knees, the results of those x-rays and that the condition was degenerative and would only 
get worse. He also said he was now being referred for physiotherapy. That was new 
information. As a result, Im satisfied that Standard Life reasonably referred the matter back 
to its CMO. 
The CMO concluded from an updated GP report that although the x-ray results showed mild 
changes to his knees, the impact wouldnt be insignificant for Mr B. And although the CMO 
felt that there were other treatments available at the pain clinic which might be beneficial for 
Mr B, given that the GP had recently reported that no further referrals were planned, this 
avenue may be closed to him. So, in light of the recent x-ray results, in conjunction with his 
other medical conditions, I think it was reasonable for Standard Life to conclude that it was 
appropriate to arrange a FCE at that stage. And it was the FCE report dated April 2022 
which ultimately led to the claim being paid. Im satisfied that Standard Life promptly 
reviewed the medical history in light of the FCE report and decided to accept the claim. 
Standard Life has agreed to pay interest at a rate of around 0.1% on the benefit amount it 
has agreed to pay from December 2019 to the date the claim was accepted in June 2022. I 
think thats fair and reasonable and more than I would reasonably expect it to do in the 
circumstances. Thats because Im satisfied that, as of the end of 2019, Mr B hadnt 
established a TPD claim under the policy. I know Mr B has referred to other decisions issued 
by our service where weve directed businesses to pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per 
year. But thats when were satisfied a business has unfairly declined or delayed paying a 
claim. For the reasons set out above, I dont think thats the case here. And for the same 
reason, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Standard Life to pay any 
compensation to Mr B for distress and inconvenience or to compensate him for the financial 
losses hes told us about as a result of not receiving the TPD benefit earlier than he did.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B and Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman