DRN-4105784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the length of time taken by Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
consider an application for a mortgage term extension. Unhappy with the delay, they 
switched the mortgage to another lender and paid Barclays an early repayment charge 
(ERC) of £33,000, which they would like the bank to reimburse.
Mr H has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite short.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs H had an interest-only mortgage with Barclays, taken out through its 
residential lending division, Woolwich. Theyd borrowed £660,000 over a term of 20 years, 
expiring in 2029.
In April 2021,when the mortgage still had nearly eight years left to run, Mr and Mrs H applied 
to extend the mortgage term by another five years. At this point the mortgage was on a fixed 
interest rate product which was due to expire on 30 April 2026. If the mortgage was repaid 
before that date, an ERC of 5% of the outstanding balance would be payable. Mr H says that 
for peace of mind he wanted the term extension agreed as quickly as possible. This 
required a full assessment of affordability, which Mr and Mrs H agreed to.
However, the application didnt pass the banks affordability checks, due to other financial 
commitments. Over the next few months the adviser tried to resolve this. Eventually the 
mortgage adviser was able to have the application sanctioned, but by this time Mr and Mrs H 
had decided to move their mortgage to another lender.
On redeeming the Barclays mortgage Mr and Mrs H paid an ERC of £33,000. They 
complained to Barclays about the length of time the application had taken, and asked the 
bank to reimburse the ERC. Barclays declined to do so, explaining that there had been no 
time constraints requiring Mr and Mrs H to re-mortgage. 
Barclays accepted the application had taken longer than anticipated, but said that this had 
been a complex application where the mortgage adviser had had to go back several times to 
try to get the term extension sanctioned. Barclays offered compensation of £250 for the 
length of time the application had taken, which Mr and Mrs H rejected. They brought their 
complaint to our service.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Barclays should reimburse the 
ERC. She was satisfied that there was no time constraint on Mr and Mrs H needing a term 
extension and that it was their choice to move their mortgage to another lender. The 
investigator said that the length of time the application was taking hadnt resulted in any 
financial loss to Mr and Mrs H, as their mortgage still had over seven years left to run.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that it was not the 
investigators place to conclude that the application wasnt time-sensitive, nor was she in a 
position to conclude there was no financial loss arising from the application taking such a 
long time. Mr H reiterated that the application was time-sensitive and that hed told the bank 
this in April 2021. Mr H also said that hed had savings available to cover financial 
commitments, and was unhappy that hed been receiving piecemeal requests for 
information during the course of the application.
Mr H said that he didnt think hed been treated fairly and wants the ERC reimbursed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs H; Im not upholding the 
complaint. These are my reasons.
Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Barclays makes in respect 
of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, 
and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for 
Barclayss own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Barclays has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. 
Barclays was entitled to assess the affordability of the application  and Mr and Mrs H have 
acknowledged this. I wont set out the details of the issues that arose in relation to 
affordability, in order to preserve Mr and Mrs Hs anonymity. But Im satisfied that Barclays 
had legitimate concerns around affordability if the term was extended, and that the mortgage 
adviser tried to work with Mr and Mrs H to get the application approved. 
Although Mr H says the application was time-sensitive, hes provided no corroborating 
evidence as to why this was the case. Given that there was still nearly eight years left to run 
on the mortgage term, Im not persuaded that there was any pressing reason why the 
application had to be completed as quickly as possible.
In addition, Mr H says that the investigator wasnt in any position to conclude there was no 
financial loss that could have been caused by the application taking longer to be completed. 
However, the application was simply for a term extension, rather than for any additional 
borrowing  where there might be a need for urgency in getting additional funds released. 
Mr and Mrs H havent provided any evidence to support their claim of actual financial loss 
caused to them as a result of the length of time the term extension application took.
Mr H refers to an ERC as a penalty. However, an ERC is not a penalty  which has a strict 
meaning in law (a charge levied for breach of contract). Repaying a mortgage early (either in 
full or in part) isnt a breach of contract; it is, in fact, specifically provided for in the contract, 
subject to any ERC that might apply. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that Barclays ERC 
is a contractual term which was agreed to by Mr and Mrs H. By borrowing money from Barclays, Mr and Mrs H agreed to pay an ERC if they repaid the money before the end of 
the fixed-term period. 
The ERC didnt prevent Mr and Mrs H from switching to a new provider. It was their choice to 
do so during the period when ERC applied and so I find that it was only fair for Mr and Mrs H 
to pay the ERC theyd previously agreed to pay when they did so. 
It follows, therefore, that Im satisfied the ERC was applied in accordance with the terms of 
the contract to which Mr and Mrs H had agreed to be bound when they borrowed the money 
from Barclays. In the circumstances there is no basis on which I can find that Barclays 
unfairly applied the ERC.
It was Mr and Mrs Hs decision to switch their mortgage to another lender. Im not persuaded 
by the evidence provided that they were under pressure and needed the term extension 
urgently, that they had no option but to move to a new lender, or that the time taken for the 
application was causing them financial loss or hardship. I can appreciate that paying the 
ERC of £33,000 was not something Mr and Mrs H wanted to do, but it was their choice to do 
so. Consequently, Im not persuaded Barclays is required to reimburse the ERC. 
I think the £250 offered by Barclays for the length of time the application took is fair and 
reasonable, and Im not ordering the bank to do anything further. If Mr and Mrs H want to 
accept this in full and final settlement of their complaint, they should contact Barclays to 
request this payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman