DRN-2305455
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Cofunds Limited (Cofunds) as he says he submitted instructions 
online for a withdrawal of funds from his ISA and due to an error online, Cofunds didnt 
action this request.
What happened
Mr G has said that on 16 March he attempted to submit instructions online for a withdrawal 
of funds from his ISA, but he says he was unable to do so as there was an issue with the 
website. He says at that point he called Cofunds and spoke to an advisor and Mr G says it 
was agreed he would try again the following day.
Mr G says around 9am on 17 March 2020 he tried to submit the instructions online again, 
but he received an error message saying, oops sorry theres a problem and the message 
indicated it was a problem with Cofunds website.
Eventually Mr G was able to submit his request on 17 March 2020 at around 10.40am, but 
he has said the delay caused a reduction in value of his ISA. Therefore, Mr G would like a 
refund for the money he lost.
Cofunds has said there were no issues with its systems at that time which would have 
prevented Mr G submitting his request online. It went on to say its records for Mr Gs 
personal file and ISA were also operating correctly. Because of this, it felt there wasnt any 
evidence to suggest it systems prevented Mr G submitting his instructions online for a 
withdrawal of funds from his ISA.
Mr G remained unhappy with Cofunds, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. To 
summarise he said he hadnt seen any evidence to show that Cofunds website was facing 
any troubles during the times Mr G was attempting to access the website to withdraw his 
funds.
Mr G remined unhappy with the investigators opinion and therefore he asked for the case to 
be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr G has said the error messaged he received said oops something went wrong and 
without any further evidence, I cant be certain what caused that error message to occur. For 
example, I cant be certain it was an error with Cofunds website or an error occurring with Mr 
Gs connection. However, on balance, I think its fair to say if it was an error with Cofunds 
website, it is likely to have impacted other customers and been an error Cofunds was aware 
of. And there has been no evidence presented to show this is the case.
So, I have gone on to listen and consider what occurred during the telephone calls Mr G had 
with Cofunds on 16 and 17 March 2020.
On 16 March Mr G told the advisor he kept receiving a message stating there wasnt enough 
funds to withdraw from his ISA. The advisor said:
Does that message say your cash wont cover the withdrawal
Mr G said yeh
The advisor went on to explain:
Because your money is invested in funds  its just making you aware that we will need to 
sell down some of the funds you hold in order to pay this out to yourself as cash.
The advisor then continued to help Mr G talking him through step by step on how to submit 
his instructions online. However, there seemed to be another issue preventing Mr G 
submitting his request, and it was established, after some time, Mr G needed to put a 
decimal point. Once this was clarified Mr G was able to move through the necessary steps, 
but he did outline that he didnt want to go ahead with the request and was doing it as a trial, 
so he was aware what he needed to do. He explained that he wanted to wait until the next 
day to see if the funds changed. The advisor then confirmed what the next steps would be in 
order to complete the request to withdraw.
The advisor also explained that Mr G would need to complete the request by 10am the 
following morning if he wished to get that days price. Mr G confirmed he understood and the 
call was terminated. 
So, having reviewed the call, I do accept that Mr G agreed to try again the next day, but this 
wasnt due to an error on the website preventing him submitting his request for withdrawal of 
funds. The advisor had talked Mr G through the process step by step, and it appeared Mr G 
had followed these steps, but prior to completing the request he decided to wait a further 
day. He made the choice to wait another day as he wanted to see if the value of the funds 
had changed. 
On 17 March 2020 Mr G called Cofunds again and said he tried submitting his request again 
and in line with conversation that took place with the advisor the day before, but he kept 
getting a message saying, oops something went wrong. When his request finally did go 
through at 10.40am that day, due to value of the fund dropping he said he had lost 
£2,591.96 and Mr G said this was due to him experiencing issues with the website.
However, I have reviewed evidence which demonstrates the withdrawal was actioned at 
3:22pm on 17 March 2020. The cut off time for the fund was 2pm therefore the unit price 
received was that of 18 March 2020.
When dealing with investments, its important to remember that they can fluctuate from what 
was predicted or shown at one point, taking into considering the market and economic 
conditions. And I do have to consider the fact the advisor Mr G spoke to on 16 March 2020 
made him aware that he would need to submit his request before 10am in order to 
guarantee that price. I appreciate Mr Gs frustrations. But it was Mr Gs decision to wait until 
the 17 March 2020 to submit his request. And I havent received any evidence to 
demonstrate Mr G contacted Cofunds when he was receiving the error message. If he had done so, as he had the previous day, the issue may have been resolved and the request 
submitted in time.
 With this in mind, I wont be asking Cofunds to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman