DRN-3358507
The complaint
Mr F complains about the level of service and communication provided by Legal and 
General Assurance (Pensions Management) Limited (Legal & General) in connection with 
his request for a certificate of contributions paid into his pension plan. 
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr F and Legal & General. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In May 2021, Mr F requested from Legal & General a certificate of contributions paid into his 
pension plan for the 2020/21 tax year. Since he hadnt received a response within a couple 
of weeks, he contacted Legal & General through its webchat service to find out the status of 
his request. Mr F wasnt happy with the level of service and communication provided on the 
webchat service  he felt that the Legal & General employee handling his query was rude. 
He asked that his dissatisfaction be logged as a formal complaint. Mr F subsequently 
received the requested certificate of contributions.
Legal & General investigated Mr Fs complaint and accepted that the level of service 
provided fell short of what he shouldve expected. It confirmed that it provided feedback 
about its expectations to the relevant employee who had handled Mr Fs query on the 
webchat service. It apologised and, in recognition of the poor level of service provided, sent 
Mr F £50 compensation by cheque.
Mr F didnt accept Legal & Generals response and referred the matter to this service. He 
told us that he felt £50 compensation was inadequate. He also told us that he wanted Legal 
& General to provide him with a detailed report of how it had dealt with the matter internally 
and what actions it took to mitigate the risk of other customers experiencing a similarly poor 
level of service in future when using its webchat service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend this complaint should be upheld or that Legal & General 
should take any further action. This was because she was satisfied that its apology and 
payment of £50 compensation was a fair outcome.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators assessment. He was concerned that our investigator 
didnt mention in her assessment what actions Legal & General had taken to mitigate the risk 
of a similar situation happening again in future. In particular, he was concerned about how 
other complainants would be able to provide evidence from a webchat service exchange to 
support their complaint. Our investigator considered Mr Fs comments but wasnt persuaded 
to change her opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was referred to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
The purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by the 
parties. So if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the evidence afresh. Having 
done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for the following reasons.
Its not in dispute that in May 2021 Legal & General provided a poor level of service 
and communication to Mr F in connection with his request for a certificate of 
contributions paid into his pension plan. It accepted that it couldve done a better job. 
When Mr F expressed dissatisfaction about the level of service provided, Legal & 
General recorded this as a complaint in a timely manner and issued its final response 
within the timescale stipulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Therefore, 
all that remains for me to decide is whether Legal & Generals final response could 
be regarded as fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In its final response, Legal & General confirmed that it provided feedback about its 
expectations to the relevant employee who had handled Mr Fs webchat query. The 
feedback was designed to educate the employee and mitigate the risk of them 
repeating the same mistake in future when dealing with other customers. But Mr F 
isnt satisfied with this. He wants this service to compel Legal & General to provide 
him with a detailed report of how it dealt with the matter internally and what actions it 
took to mitigate the risk of other customers experiencing a similarly poor level of 
service in future. This service isnt the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
FCA. We were set up as an informal and free alternative to the courts to deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Under this final decision 
Im only considering Mr Fs individual complaint. I cannot compel Legal & General to 
provide to Mr F the information he wants. Any concerns Mr F has about the 
adequacy of Legal & Generals internal systems and controls should be referred to 
the FCA.
Legal & General ultimately provided to Mr F a certificate of contributions paid into his 
pension plan for the 2020/21 tax year. Ive not seen any evidence that the delay in 
receiving the information led to him suffering a financial loss. Legal & General 
apologised to Mr F for the poor level of service it provided. And it also paid him £50 
compensation. This appears to be a one-off incident that Mr F experienced. I think it 
would have led to some distress and inconvenience. And so I think an apology and 
payment of £50 compensation seems fair in the circumstances. Because of this, I 
dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Legal & General to pay 
additional compensation to Mr F  or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman