DRN-3211507
The complaint
Miss R complains that Conister Bank Limited mishandled her request for early settlement of 
a hire purchase agreement she had taken out for a car.
What happened
In July 2018 Miss R entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Conister Bank for 
a used car. The total to pay under the agreement was £12,262, with 59 monthly payments of 
£204.20 and one payment of £214.20.
In December 2019 Miss R asked Conister Bank for the early settlement figure so that she 
could buy the car outright and end the agreement. Conister Bank sent Miss R a letter setting 
out that the balance on the agreement stood at £8,994.80, that if she was settle the 
agreement within the next month there would be an interest rebate applied of £6,445.41 
leaving a balance of £2,549.39 to be paid.
In January 2020 Miss R paid the settlement figure shed been quoted of £2,549.39 and 
thought that the account was settled and closed. Unfortunately, there had been an 
administrative error on behalf of Conister Bank. The settlement figure was actually £6,445.41 
and it was this amount that should have been provided to Miss R to bring the agreement to 
an end early. The figure of £2,549.39 had in fact been the amount of the interest rebate to be 
applied when settling the agreement. These two figures had been wrongly recorded by 
Conister Bank when preparing the settlement quote for Miss R.
The affect of Miss Rs settlement payment had been to put her account into credit but it 
hadnt settled it. In June 2021 Conister Bank contacted Miss R about the outstanding 
balance on her account. Miss R complained to Conister Bank about its handling of the 
matter. She said it would be fair for Conister Bank to write-off the outstanding balance on her 
account as she had paid the amount it had given as the settlement figure.
Conister Bank upheld Miss Rs complaint as it accepted it had made an error when providing 
her with the settlement figure. But it said that it would be disproportionate to write off the 
outstanding amount of £3,896.02 because of the error. Conister Bank said that when 
entering into the agreement, Miss R had agreed to pay the credit for the car and abide by the 
terms and conditions of the agreement. It offered to reduce the outstanding balance by £500 
and to set an affordable and agreed payment plan to clear the balance. Conister Bank also 
said this payment plan wouldnt have any impact on Miss Rs credit file.
Miss R was unhappy at Conister Banks offer and complained to this service. She said that 
she didnt think she had any liability to pay the outstanding balance as the error was Conister 
Banks and she had relied on the settlement figure shed been given as being correct. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. He said that 
although it was accepted this was an error by Conister Bank, it was fair for her to repay the 
credit shed borrowed. Our investigator said he thought Conister Banks offer had been fair in 
the circumstances and he wouldnt ask it to do anymore.
Miss R disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said it wasnt fair she should have to 
pay for an error made by Conister Bank, and she would struggle financially to clear the 
outstanding balance.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Rs frustration at being provided with the wrong settlement figure and 
finding out that there is an outstanding balance left on an account shed thought shed 
cleared. And I accept this will have resulted in distress at being asked to find additional 
money to make payments she hadnt budgeted for. But I disagree that for these reasons, it 
would be fair for this balance to be written off by Conister bank and I will explain why.
When Miss R entered into the agreement in July 2018, she agreed she would pay the full 
amount of the credit agreement. The agreement also gave Miss R the right to repay in full or 
in part the outstanding balance less any rebate of interest calculated in accordance with the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. This means that under the terms of the agreement Miss Rs 
liability under the agreement was to pay £6,445.41 at the point when she enquired about the 
settlement figure.
Its not disputed that Conister Bank made an error and quoted the interest rebate figure as 
the settlement figure. Miss R says this was a misrepresentation that she should be able to 
rely on. However, I dont think I can reasonably say the settlement figure provided by 
Conister Bank amounts to an offer to Miss R of a significantly discounted settlement figure. It 
was an administrative mistake where the figures had been mixed up. 
And where a mistake is made that misleads a consumer, then its fair that I look at what 
steps can be taken to put Miss R in the position she would have been in had that error not 
been made. Had the mistake with the figures not occurred Miss R would have been told of 
the correct figure outstanding under the agreement. She could then have decided to 
continue with the agreement, pay some of the balance or pay off the full £6,445.41 due. 
Ive seen that Conister Bank has accepted that Miss R may not be in a position where she 
can pay the remaining balance straight away. It has offered to find an agreeable and 
affordable payment plan for this amount to be cleared. Conister Bank says that any payment 
plan will not result in adverse information being recorded on Miss Rs credit file. 
In addition, Conister Bank has offered to reduce the balance by £500 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss R by its error.
While I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Miss R, I think asking Conister Bank to 
write off the outstanding balance of over £3800 is disproportionate to the error thats 
occurred. I dont doubt that this error will have caused her distress, frustration and 
inconvenience but she had agreed to pay the finance for the car when she entered into it. 
So, I think Conisters offer is fair. It allows Miss R to repay the balance over time in a way 
that is affordable to her. I also think the £500 reduction in the outstanding balance reflects 
the impact this matter has had on her. 
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman