DRN-3426992
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the issues he experienced when trying to open a HSDL Online 
Investment ISA with Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL). Mr M is concerned about a 
possible data breach in HSDL losing his initial application, not having online access to his 
account and the unknown time period to resolve the online access. 
What happened
Mr M already held three online accounts with HSDL when he applied online for a HSDL 
Online Investment ISA on 3 January 2021. He called HSDL on 11 January and was told his 
online application couldnt be found and he had to reapply, which he did. The account wasnt 
opened until 9 February 2021.
Mr M had problems accessing his account and wasnt happy with the service he had 
received so raised a complaint with HSDL on 18 February 2021. HSDL responded to Mr M 
on 23 February 2021. It said:
It apologised that Mr M was experiencing online visibility issues. It was aware some 
of its customers were affected by a technical issue and it was investigating.
It referred to the account application which stated that a customer would need to be 
using a tablet, laptop or desktop as some parts of our application are incompatible 
with mobile devices.
It did have measures in place to enable full use of the account and which would 
include trading, phone enquires and quarterly paper statements, which it said was in 
line with its terms and conditions of the account. 
In conclusion, it didnt uphold the complaint as its agreement with Mr M was that he 
would make use of the telephone service when the online service was unavailable, 
and this was considered a suitable alternative. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
Mr M told us the invitation to use the telephone banking service as an alternative was a 
lesser service than the one advertised, which was available 24 hours. He didnt think he was 
being treated fairly in having to accept a lesser service and still pay the same account fees. 
He was worried that HSDL couldnt get an online account to function properly.
To put the matter right Mr M wanted an apology from HSDL for not upholding his complaint 
as the service wasnt working properly or as advertised. He wanted financial compensation. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think HSDL had acted fairly, in 
summary:
HSDL told us it hadnt lost Mr Ms initial application of 3 January 2021 and had 
written to him on 8 January asking for additional customer verification and anti-
money laundering documentation.
HSDL acknowledged that Mr M had been misinformed during the call of 11 January 
that his application was lost but this was corrected by a second HSDL representative 
during a follow up call on 14 January.
HSDL told us it had sent a further request for customer verification and anti-money 
laundering documents on 15 January and which were received by HSDL on 3 
February, processed on 5 February and the account was opened on 9 February 
which the investigator didnt think was unreasonable. The additional checks were 
needed under legislation and was in line with Mr Ms agreement when he opened his 
account. 
However, the investigator thought Mr M would have been distressed to have been 
told his application had gone missing and compensation was due to him because of 
the upset caused. 
The investigator explained the dealing service and Mr Ms other accounts were 
hosted on different platforms and outlined HSDLs online process  customer profiles 
had to match for each profile for the online account to work. 
It was acknowledged that Mr M had agreed to the terms and conditions and that as 
an alternative to the online account a telephone service could be used to trade and 
administer the account, so the investigator didnt think an award should be made.
However, the investigator thought there was an expectation that Mr M should be able 
to access his account online, particularly as to open an online ISA account Mr M had 
to be an existing online customer, which he was. And while the terms and conditions 
said telephone banking could be used as an alternative, it was not the service Mr M 
agreed to. The issues had remained unresolved and an end date unknown. So Mr M 
should be awarded compensation. 
For both issues the investigator thought HSDL should pay Mr M £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M agreed with the investigators suggested out. HSDL didnt respond.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing his complaint to this service Mr M highlighted his three main areas of concern  a 
data protection breach in HSDL losing his initial application, his online account not being 
available and the unknown period to resolve the online access. 
Was there a data protection breach?
After Mr M made his application online, he called a week later and was told it couldnt be 
found. He told us this caused him alarm as he wasnt given an explanation as to where all 
his personal data such as his name, address, and bank details etc had gone. 
However, HSDL has clarified that the application wasnt ever lost. Rather it was a case of  
Mr M being misinformed about this over the phone by one of HSDLs representatives when 
he made contact after his application. 
I hope Mr M is now satisfied that there wasnt any breach of his personal data, but I do 
recognise his genuine concern about this. And I dont doubt that Mr M was worried when he 
was told his application couldnt be found, albeit this misinformation being corrected shortly after during a further phone call. However, I know Mr M feels strongly about this and I think 
an award should be made in recognition of the stress caused to Mr M. 
Mr Ms Online Investment ISA not being accessible online
Mr M said he wanted online access to his ISA as it was available 24 hours. He had a busy 
life so wanted an alternative to the telephone service which he said was time consuming 
because of the time spent being on hold etc. 
HSDL gave us details about why the account wasnt accessible online. It explained that it 
was hosted on the Halifax Bank platform which was different than the Share Dealing service 
platform. And the coded client profiles between the two must match for the service to work 
and for the customer to view the Share Dealing account. The Share Dealing service had to 
carry out multiple manual code fixes in order to resolve the issue. 
While its not unusual for online services to sometimes experience technical issues, this cant 
have been very helpful to Mr M and extremely frustrating for him. He wanted to be able to 
access his account online and 24 hours a day  that was the reason he opened his account 
in the first place. 
But I accept that as part of the accounts terms and conditions agreed to, Mr M could access 
his account by telephone to carry out trades and administer his account if online access 
wasnt available. So even though Mr M was no doubt frustrated, I dont think that HSDL has 
acted outside of its agreement with him.
The date of resolution to the online access issue not being known
HSDL told us that as a result of the online ISA account being on Halifaxs Bank platform 
rather than the Share Dealing platform, the Share Dealing platform itself wasnt able to view 
accounts as live. So, it wasnt able to determine whether the ISA online account was 
viewable or whether the fixes it had carried out had been successful. It was reliant on the 
customer notifying it of any errors. 
It also reiterated that Mr M was told he was able to fully administrate his account over the 
phone until the issue was resolved. It hadnt breached its agreement with Mr M so didnt 
think it was reasonable for an award to be made.
When HSDL wrote to Mr M with its final response letter, it said it was aware of some 
technical issues which were affecting some customers and that it was trying to restore 
visibility of Mr Ms account for him. So clearly it was aware there was a problem being 
experienced by its customers.
When Mr M brought his complaint to this service at the end of February 2021, he still didnt 
have online access to his Online Investments ISA, and he said he was told it could take 
months for the problem to be resolved. At the time, he wasnt certain if he could ever have 
access to his account online despite having three other online accounts with Halifax. He said 
he was being asked to accept a lesser service and one that he did not want. 
I understand that Mr M does now have online access to his ISA account. But I appreciate   
Mr Ms considerable frustration  quite simply he wasnt able to use a service he had signed 
up for and didnt have any idea of how long it would take to resolve that issue. 
So even though I accept that HSDL hasnt breached its agreement with Mr M as detailed in 
its terms and conditions, the service he received was below what was offered and below    
Mr Ms expectations. Particularly as he told us he had been advised it could take months to resolve. Mr M was inconvenienced by this and no doubt found it stressful so I do think he 
should be compensated for this. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended an award of £200 in recognition of the upset caused to Mr M. 
I think this award is a fair reflection of the upset Mr M was caused when he was told his 
online application couldnt be located and for it not being known when the online access 
issue would be resolved and as a result, Mr M having to accept a lessor service than he 
signed up for.
In the individual circumstances of this complaint I think an award of £200 is fair and 
reasonable. Mr M has agreed that it is a fair resolution to his complaint. 
My final decision
As outlined above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about the misinformation he was given about 
his application being missing and the problems he experienced in being able to view his 
account online. So, I award Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience he suffered and 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay this award to Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman