DRN-2893410
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited added some 
exclusions to her pet insurance policy after she had taken out the policy.  
What happened
Mrs W bought a pet insurance policy for her pet dog online. The policy started on 30 April 
2020. After receiving the policy documents Mrs W phoned Red Sands and advised of some 
previous visits her dog had had to the vet. Red Sands then asked to see the vets notes.
On 6 May 2020 Mrs W received an email telling her that some exclusions had been added to 
the policy, which would apply as from 30 April and would exclude all claims relating to 
hernias; the digestive system; and the eyes and sight.
Mrs W complained about the exclusions being added but Red Sands said:
under the policy terms, any conditions or illnesses that showed clinical signs or 
symptoms before the policy started or within the first 14 days were excluded from 
cover;
as the medical history confirmed that her dog had had an umbilical hernia, vomiting 
and conjunctivitis before she took out the policy, it would add exclusions to the 
policy;
exclusions are set by its underwriters and the exclusions added to her policy were 
based on the medical conditions that had been disclosed.
When Mrs W brought her complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said it was common for insurers to ask questions about a pets medical history 
to help them decide which risks they want to cover, and given the past conditions her pet 
had had, Red Sands had decided to exclude certain conditions. She also said that by letting 
Mrs W know about this during the first 14 days of the insurance (the cooling off period) it 
had given her the chance to decide whether she wanted to continue with the policy.  
Mrs W disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsmans decision. In brief, she 
said:
she wasnt told at any point before the policy started that any additional restrictions 
would apply;
the schedule dated 30 April 2020 made it clear the policy was effected "subject to 
the terms and conditions contained in this documentation and the contract of 
insurance was effected on that basis;
its reasonable for insurers to ask about the pets medical history, but any 
decisions should be made before the policy starts or at the very least they should 
make it clear beforehand what their intentions are;
Red Sands didnt explain their reasoning to her until 22 May by which time it was 
too late for her to cancel within the cooling off period;
Red Sands should stick to the terms agreed when the policy starts and not 
change them afterwards.
We asked Red Sands to clarify whether Mrs W was asked about her pets visits to the vet 
during the sales process. Red Sands advised that
the online sales journey explains that any conditions already present before the 
policy starts wont be covered;
the specific question about past visits to the vet was included in the policy schedule.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. In the provisional decision I said:
The policy terms are clear that any pre-existing conditions are not covered. Insurance is 
generally intended to cover the risk of something happening in the future and its very 
common for policies to exclude existing conditions. So if Mrs Ws pet dog had had any 
medical conditions before she took out the policy, those conditions wouldnt be covered.
Mrs W doesnt dispute this  she accepts that the specific conditions her pet had are not 
covered. What shes unhappy about is that Red Sands hasnt just excluded these specific 
conditions  it has gone further and added wider exclusions, which included everything to do 
with her pets digestive system; and his eyes and sight. Mrs Ws policy started on 30 April 
and these additional exclusions were only added on 6 May, but backdated to the start of the 
policy.
There are limited circumstances where an insurer can add backdated exclusions to a policy 
after its started. The relevant law is set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). Under CIDRA, if there has been a 
misrepresentation by the consumer, and the insurer can show that, without that 
misrepresentation, it would only have offered the insurance on different terms, it may then 
change the terms of the policy to reflect what would have happened, if it had been given the 
correct information at the time.
For this to happen, Id need to be satisfied that Red Sands had asked Mrs W a clear 
question and she had failed to take reasonable care when answering that question. Red 
Sands has confirmed that the specific question about past visits to the vet was included in 
the policy schedule. That document was only sent to Mrs W after she had bought the policy. 
I appreciate that she was asked to check the documents and she then called Red Sands to 
discuss her pets medical history. But the crux of the matter is that for there to be a 
misrepresentation, Red Sands would need to show it had asked a clear question and Mrs W 
failed to take reasonable care when answering it. From the information Ive seen, at the point 
when Mrs W bought the policy, she wasnt asked about her pets medical history. And if she 
wasnt asked the question, then she couldnt have made a misrepresentation.
On this basis, I agree with Mrs W that Red Sands should stick to the terms agreed when it 
entered into the contract with her and is not able to change them afterwards. In the 
circumstances here, where there wasnt a misrepresentation at the point when Mrs W 
bought her policy, Red Sands shouldnt add backdated exclusions to the policy after it 
has started.
Mrs W provided the information requested of her when she followed the online sales 
process. After taking out the policy she provided some further information in good faith. She 
shouldnt have been penalised for that. She then had to seek further information from Red 
Sands to find out why the exclusions had been added. The 14 day cooling off period didnt 
entitle Red Sands to change the policy terms after it had started. The fact that Mrs W had to 
seek further clarification  which she only received after the 14 days had ended  meant she 
then felt she was stuck with a policy with wide exclusions, and this would have caused her 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And for the reasons Ive explained, those exclusions should not have been added. I think its reasonable for Red Sands to compensate 
her for this and the figure I have in mind is £200.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has accepted the provisional decision. Red Sands has also said it accepts the 
recommendations, including the compensation of £200, and is arranging for this to be paid. 
In the circumstances theres no reason for me to change my provisional decision or add 
anything further. So I am upholding the complaint for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to:
remove from the policy the exclusions for all claims relating to hernias; the digestive 
system; and the eyes and sight respectively; and
pay compensation of £200 to Mrs W for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman