DRN-3818608
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Experian Limited have been reporting information on his credit
file. During the course of events, Mr R has raised several concerns over a period of time and
it has been agreed that under this complaint reference at our service the following matters
will be considered.
Mr Rs concerns that Experian did not pro-actively update his address which he says 
led to applications for finance being declined and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
being registered against him. Mr R says this greatly impacted his personal and 
professional life. (Experians complaint reference SH32186665).
Mr Rs concerns about the way in which a manager from Experian spoke with him 
during a telephone call on 5 August 2021. (Experians complaint reference 
SH34675964).
Mr Rs concerns that his credit file hadnt been updated despite the CCJ being set 
aside, including concerns about hard searches that were carried out while the CCJ 
was in force; as well as a call with another Experian staff member on 6 January 2021 
in relation to this matter. (Experians complaint reference SH42159716).
Mr R more recently raised concerns about the standard of other phone calls he had with
other Experian staff members and problems with receiving a passkey to access a copy of
his credit report. Experian addressed these concerns in their correspondence to him dated
12 May 2022 under complaint reference SH48414136. These recent concerns will not form
part of this decision. If Mr R wishes to also refer these concerns as a matter for
our service to consider, he should do so within the deadline set out in Experians letter.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties and invited any further submissions, evidence 
or clarifications from them. Mr R required some additional time to respond which was 
agreed. 
The below extract is taken from my provisional decision setting out the background to this 
complaint and my provisional findings, which now form part of this decision. 
What happened 
Mr R and Experian will both be aware there are many submissions relating to Mr Rs
complaint, however I will not be repeating them all here. Rather I will only include here what I
think is most relevant to my considerations.
Mr R raised his concerns following his discovery of a CCJ being registered against a
previous residential address.
In the submissions available, Mr R has said he lived at Address 1 between December 2013
and December 2019; he lived with his partner at Address 2 from February 2021 until June
2021, and that since July 2021 he has been living at Address 3.
Between December 2019 and February 2021 Mr Rs submissions appear to be he was living
in a motorhome due to work commitments at the time.
Mr R has said when he moved to Address 2 he changed the address on his bank account
and on his driving licence, and he made some applications from that address which were
unsuccessful.
Mr R says he tried to find out why his applications for finance had been declined, but it was
not until he tried accessing his credit report through his previous address that he was able to
see a water company had registered the CCJ in question to his old address (Address 1).
The submissions show that the CCJ was registered on 25 May 2021.
Throughout the submissions Mr R has maintained Experian are responsible for what
happened. Mr R believes that had Experian updated his address, the CCJ would not have
been registered because the water company would have been alerted to the fact he no
longer lived at Address 1. Mr R says he would therefore not have suffered financially due to
paying additional living costs and nor would his business have been impacted. Mr R has
described his situation as being homeless due to his partner asking him to leave her home
(Address 2) because of the CCJ and he has told us that he was a victim of crime given the
residents that took over Address 1 were involved in criminal activity.
Experian didnt accept they were responsible for what had happened and told Mr R that
Experian only reported data provided to them by third parties. Experian also explained they
would share information that matched addresses and details given to them by companies
whom Mr R was making applications with. And they told Mr R that it was not for Experian to
hold a current address for Mr R, or a requirement for them to update companies when he
changed address.
Mr R brought his concerns to our service and our investigator reviewed them. The
investigator concluded Experian had not done anything wrong, and as Mr R did not accept
the investigators findings, the complaint has come to me to decide.
Before considering the complaint our service approached Experian to agree that some of
Mr Rs complaints could be brought together under one reference number. Experian agreed
to this and some further information was requested to assist looking into these matters,
including a request for the telephone recordings in question and asking Experian about the
removal of the CCJ and hard searches recorded against Mr R while the CCJ was still
showing on his credit file.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am minded not to
uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Addresses
As one of the three main Credit Reference Agencies (CRA), Experians role is to hold a
range of information (mostly for lenders) in relation to how an individual has maintained their
credit and service/ utility accounts. This information is gathered together from what external
companies report to Experian, and public sources of information such as the electoral roll
and court judgements.Mr R seemingly holds Experian responsible for all the information that appears on his credit
file. But, in reality, the lenders and telecoms and utility companies who pass the information
to the CRA have ultimate responsibility for the information that appears on a credit file.
Lenders might access this information to help decide if theyre prepared to agree lending for
an individual and individuals can also access their own credit file to see what information is
held about them.
CRAs also operate a separate tracing facility which is usually used by lenders and debt
collection companies that are trying to find a customer who has stopped making payments
and has changed address without notifying them. CRAs provide details of the addresses
they hold for an individual matched to the details the company provides, and it is then for the
company that has requested that information to carry out their own further checks to satisfy
themselves of the individuals identity.
CRAs are licenced and regulated by the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA), and their activities are covered by various legislation, most notably the Data
Protection Act.
I would make clear at this point, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a court of law, so it
is not for this service to decide if there has been a breach in the law. It is the role of this
service to decide what is fair and reasonable to resolve the complaint, taking into account,
amongst other things, any relevant regulations or law.
Mr R feels strongly that it was Experians responsibility to update his account with his new
address in order for companies to know where he was living. Mr R thinks Experian should
have known where he was living due to the applications he made and the changes of
address he made to his bank account and driving licence. I understand Mr R feels very
strongly about this, however, I have not seen any suggestion that Experian was under any
obligation to do this.
Experian do not present a current address within the data they provide  more simply, they
hold the information they have been given. When Mr R applies for finance, the company he
has applied to will ask Mr R to provide certain details  name, address history, date of birth
etc and the company will then submit this to Experian (or whichever CRA they use)
requesting that any information matching these details is shared.
It is not therefore Experians responsibility to extrapolate from Mr Rs various applications
and address changes he is making elsewhere to conclude where he lives and report that.
I think it would also be helpful to draw a distinction between the information Experian holds
and some of the other services they offer.
Experian offers customers different services including being able to obtain a statutory report,
setting up an Experian Account (a free service), or taking out a CreditExpert service or
Identity Plus service (which both incur a monthly fee).
I understand that at some point Mr R set up a free Experian Account for himself. This type of
account provides services such as updating the Experian Credit Score every 30 days;
comparing product offers and eligibility for such offers; and opportunities to see if a credit
score can be increased. With this account Experians role is as a credit broker, and so this
service should be considered separate to the provision of a statutory credit report and the
information being shared with companies.The information Mr R accesses about his credit report via the Experian Account is also
linked to the information hes provided to set up the account  which is why it is important to
keep this updated. It is also important to note that companies requesting information about
Mr R would not use information Mr R has given to set up the Experian Account, so this
would have no bearing on any searches being carried out.
To apply for the Experian Account Mr R would have needed to provide an address history to
Experian and under the terms of the account it was his responsibility to keep his information
accurate and up to date  not Experians.
I have no doubt it was upsetting for Mr R to learn a CCJ had been recorded against his old
address. But taking everything into account, I dont think its fair to say this is Experians fault
as I have no reason to believe they have incorrectly reported information they were given
and they were under no obligation to have made an assumption about Mr Rs new address
or actively highlight this to companies using their service.
In view of the above Ive therefore not seen anything regarding this part of Mr Rs complaint
that persuades me Experian has done something wrong. So I am minded not to uphold this
element of Mr Rs complaint.
Phone calls
In connection with the above Mr R had several phone calls with Experian and under this
complaint I am able to consider two of these calls. One which took place on 6 January 2021
and the second, which took place on 5 August 2021.
Unfortunately, and despite a further recent request from our service for Experian to again
check their records, a copy of the call recoding which happened on 5 August 2021 is not
available. It is disappointing that this isnt available. And in the absence of the actual call its
therefore difficult for me to know for certain what was said.
Mr R claims he was spoken to unprofessionally and suggested the Experian staff member
told him it was his own fault for being in the situation he found himself in. As Ive said, I dont
know for certain what was discussed. If things happened as Mr R has described then that is
disappointing to hear, but in the absence of the call itself there is little for me to review and
not enough for me to fairly say Experian have done something wrong here. Im also mindful
that the call is not at the heart of what has happened so Ive not considered this further.
Experian were able to locate the call from 6 January 2021 and having listened to this call Im
unable to agree with Mr R that the Experian staff member was inappropriate in any way. I
understand Mr Rs view of what happened with his information is different to that of
Experians view - this clearly came across in the call - but this doesnt mean the call was
badly handled. Im therefore not upholding this part of Mr Rs complaint.
Removal of CCJ and hard searches
As already explained above, Experian do not own the data held about individuals  so it was
not for Experian to make any changes to the CCJ registered against Mr R at his previous
address, unless the public records were amended. This process was explained to Mr R in
November 2021.
An internal screenshot from Experians records show that the CCJ was set aside on 2
December 2021 and Experian has confirmed the date they received the update from the
Registry Trust Limited was 7 December 2021, at which point they have said Mr Rs records
were updated. In the circumstances, I dont think this (three working days) was anunreasonable timeframe for this to have been actioned.
I can see Mr R was upset that hard searches carried out when the CCJ was being reported
were still showing on his credit file and he requested that Experian remove these.
Experian attempted to reassure Mr R that while the searches for applications at that time
appeared on his credit file, if a third-party accessed his records they would not show whether
Mr R had been accepted or rejected for credit.
It was also explained to Mr R that Experian could not remove these searches unless the
companies reporting them agreed to their removal, otherwise the searches would naturally
fall away after 12 months.
To try and help Mr R, Experian said they would contact the relevant companies to seek
permission to remove the searches from Mr Rs credit file. I understand from Experian the
companies involved confirmed to Experian that the searches would be removed. I think
Experians actions were reasonable here to try and help Mr R, and I wouldnt expect
Experian to have done any more than this given the decision to remove the searches
ultimately rested with the relevant companies.
References
Part of Mr Rs concerns were that Experian had too many references in relation to his
communications with them about his complaints. Experian have explained their
correspondence has specific references for them to more easily access documents.
How a business chooses to set up processes to manage their complaints and
correspondence with customers is not something this service can interfere with as it is a
matter for the business to decide. Our service is not the regulator so we do not fine or punish
businesses nor review their systems and controls  this is the responsibility of the regulator,
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Responses to my provisional decision 
Experian replied to my provisional decision with no clarifications or further submissions for 
me to consider. Mr R responded to my provisional decision to say that he disagreed with it. 
Ive responded to Mr Rs additional submissions below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision to say that he disagreed with it and he spoke to 
one of our investigators to explain why. 
Having listened to the call, Im mindful that many of the points Mr R made in the call have 
already been addressed in my provisional findings above. Notably, that Mr R feels that 
several interactions he was having with other organisations (financial and non-financial) in 
relation to his address history should have put Experian on notice that he was no longer at 
Address 1, and they should therefore have updated his current address for him. And that 
Experian unhelpfully used different reference numbers every time he corresponded with 
them. During the call Mr R also made comments about his attempts to change his address, but that 
Experian refused to do this. In order to update details on the Experian Account, Experian 
requested identity documentation from Mr R to do this. Our investigator that previously 
handled Mr Rs complaint had explained to him that it wasnt unreasonable for Experian to 
request information confirming his identity to ensure that no one else was trying to make 
changes to his Experian Account. 
In the submissions Ive seen correspondence to Mr R from Experian that explained that 
when he updates his Experian Account details, the account could need to be re-verified as a 
security measure. So I cant fairly say that Experian was trying to prevent Mr R from 
updating his address. Or that it was unreasonable of Experian to request any additional 
identity documents in the circumstances.
Mr R told our investigator in response to the provisional decision that it would be appropriate 
for this service to approach Experian and obtain all the emails he had sent to Experian about 
his address history, searching for emails from several different email addresses he held. He 
also said that if he had received confirmation from the Land Registry that he no longer lived 
at the address, then surely Experian should have known this too. He says Experian told him 
they had no record of any such information from the Land Registry. 
Ive considered this, but I dont think searching for further emails, or that the letter Mr R has 
spoken of, changes the outcome Ive reached. 
I already explained in my provisional decision, the information accessible through Mr Rs 
Experian Account was for his use, and lenders/ other organisations would not access that 
information as part of their lending decisions. And as mentioned, Ive not seen anything that 
suggests Experian were actively trying to prevent Mr R from updating his address history on 
his Experian Account. Id also add it appears Mr R was looking to update his address after 
the CCJ had been issued, so I think its reasonable to say changing his address after the 
event would not have changed what had already happened. 
It was also the water companys responsibility to trace Mr R for the outstanding sum on their 
account. As I previously mentioned in my provisional decision, as part of the tracing service, 
Experian would provide the details they had to any such request, but it was ultimately up to 
the business looking to find Mr R to satisfy themselves of the details they had to pursue him 
for money. 
Mr R also mentioned that the judge had set aside the CCJ because there was conclusive 
proof he had not been at Address 1. I think its fair to say theres now an acceptance that   
Mr R was not at Address 1, but to be clear, Experian was reporting information they had 
been given at that time. 
In the recent call with our investigator Mr R mentioned that he would like this service to 
consider that he was a victim of crime. I have no doubt that learning of the CCJ was 
upsetting to Mr R, and that the reason for it was not due to any fault on Mr Rs part. That 
said, I also think its reasonable to say in the circumstances, that the CCJ was not Experians 
fault either. 
I realise Mr R has described a significant impact to him because of the CCJ, including that 
his partner asked him to move out of their home after learning of the adverse credit. He says 
this subsequently led to him living in hotels and paying over £10,000 in hotel/ 
accommodation costs. And I also realise Mr R has been keen to emphasise that he has 
always ensured hes met his financial obligations. Given the court decided to set aside Mr Rs CCJ, I think its fair to say the CCJ was not of his 
making. However, for the reasons set out above, I think it is unfair to say the CCJ was 
caused by anything Experian did or did not do. And as I mentioned in my provisional 
findings, Experian could not update the details of the CCJ without receiving the correct 
authority to do so, and I think this was done within a reasonable period of time once 
Experian had received confirmation from the Registry Trust Limited. 
I recognise Mr R will be unhappy with this outcome, but there is not enough here for me to 
say that Experian were the direct or indirect cause of the CCJ which impacted Mr Rs credit 
file. Ive also not seen anything to suggest Mr R was treated unfairly by Experian in the 
phone call Ive been able to listen to, or that there was any delay in updating Mr Rs credit 
file once the CCJ was set aside and Experian received notification of this through the 
Registry Trust Limited. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman