DRN-1320241
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about two credit card accounts that Capital One opened for her, one in 
2014 and a second in 2018. She said that lending was irresponsible, so she wanted Capital 
One to pay her back all the interest she was charged on her accounts. 
What happened
Miss B had two credit cards with Capital One. She took out one in November 2014, for £200, 
then a second in July 2018, again for £200. Each time Capital One lent to her, she had 
defaults on her credit file. She said shed been in a repayment plan throughout this time. She 
thought it was irresponsible of Capital One to lend this money to her.
Miss B said if she shouldnt have been issued those cards in the first place, then she 
shouldnt have had to pay all the interest on the debts. So she wanted Capital One to pay 
her back that interest.
Capital One said it had been able to see defaults on Miss Bs debts when she applied for 
lending in 2014 and again in 2018, but those werent very recent. Each time it had 
considered her financial position overall, and it didnt think there were reasons not to lend to 
her. Also, in 2018 her existing card was in good order, and had been for several months.
Capital One wouldnt refund all the interest Miss B had paid. It could see that Miss B had 
been having difficulties more recently. It was waiting for proposals from the debt 
management charity that Miss B was working with, and once those proposals were accepted 
it would suspend interest and fees on both her accounts.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think Capital One had been 
unreasonable when it lent either of these two amounts to Miss B. He didnt ask Capital One 
to do any more.
Miss B didnt think Capital One should have given her any lending when she already had 
defaults. She said when she got the second card in 2018, the way she was managing her 
first card shouldve provided clear evidence that she wasnt a good and reliable customer.
Because Miss B didn't agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One showed us the defaults it could see on Miss Bs credit file in 2014, when it 
approved her application for lending. I do think Capital One had to take those defaults into 
account when it made a lending decision, but I dont think they should automatically have 
prevented any lending at all to her. Capital One looked at her position overall, including her income and the way she was managing her debts. I dont think it was irresponsible of Capital 
One to lend Miss B £200 at that time.
Miss B then applied for another card in July 2018. Capital One said it looked at her credit file 
again then, and it didnt think that the position was so bad that it ought not to have lent to 
her. Capital One has also shown us what it could see then. And I dont think that her credit 
file was, at that stage, so poor that it was clearly irresponsible to lend a further £200 to her, 
based on that file.
Capital One also had some experience of lending Miss B money by this time, as shed held a 
card with it since 2014. Miss B said that meant in July 2018 Capital One shouldve known 
she wouldnt be able to pay back a new card, because she wasnt managing her first card. 
She said she was only just paying the minimum monthly amount plus interest.
Ive looked at Miss Bs statements for her first card, and initially she did only pay the 
minimum. But she then paid off her card in full in summer 2017, and doesnt appear to have 
used it again until early 2018. In early 2018 she was making use of the card, but paying off 
the card regularly too. 
It may be that theres another explanation for why Miss B was able to make these payments 
at this time, but I can only consider what Capital One could see then. And I dont think that 
the way that Miss B was operating her first card by July 2018 shouldve suggested to Capital 
One that it would be wrong to allow her to open a second card account.
I dont think that Capital One has lent Miss B money irresponsibly. So I dont think that it has 
to pay her back the interest that its charged on this borrowing.
I know that Miss B will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman