DRN-3538428
The complaint
Mr F has complained that RESOLVECALL LIMITEDs staff member was threatening.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In December 2021, Resolvecall were asked to help get Mr F back in touch with the owner of 
a debt he hadnt paid back. Resolvecall wrote to Mr F asking him to contact the debt owner, 
and explained that theyd try to get in touch by visiting him at home if they didnt hear back.
In January 2022, one of Resolvecalls staff members visited Mr F at his home. Mr F explains 
he felt this visit was threatening. He raised concerns around the use of the word safest, the 
staff member standing nearby to fill out paperwork afterwards, and the wearing of a face 
mask. Mr F felt that these were intimidation tactics, and said it had left him with a fear of 
violence against him and his family.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have listened to the audio recording of the interaction, and watched the camera 
footage recorded by Mr F.
During the conversation, the staff member was talking about verifying Mr Fs identity for data 
protection purposes. Mr F declined to do so, and the staff member said that the easiest, 
quickest, then started to say safest but corrected himself to best option. Mr F then cut 
him off to object to the word safest, accusing the staff member of threatening him.
The staff member was talking relatively quickly, briefly misspoke, then immediately corrected 
himself. He apologised, clarified clearly and repeatedly that the word safest had not been 
intended as any kind of threat, explained that he was just trying to get Mr F in contact with 
the debt owner, and agreed to leave the property. His tone was calm and polite. I dont find 
the word safest to have been inappropriate in and of itself, not least given the wider context 
of the conversation about data protection, the calm non-threatening tone, and given that it 
was immediately made clear it was only said by accident.
The staff member explained that he would fill out a card with details so Mr F could get in 
touch, and put it through the letter box. Following the conversation, he stepped away from 
the door, filled out this card, put it in an envelope, labelled it, put it through the letter box, and 
then left the premises  as he said he would. I cant see that this was inappropriate in any 
reasonable sense.
Lastly, while it was no longer a legal requirement to wear a face mask, it was certainly 
encouraged and advisable to  especially when dealing with customers face-to-face. In any 
case, the staff member had the discretion to wear one for his own safety and peace of mind, 
and for the safety of the people he was speaking to. I cant see anything inappropriate about 
the face mask here. It was a perfectly reasonable and sensible measure to take.
I find that Resolvecalls staff member did not do anything which would reasonably leave the 
impression he was threatening anyone here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman