DRN-2411187
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc handled a claim she 
made on her car insurance policy.
Mrs N has been represented in bringing her complaint, but for ease Ive referred to all 
actions and comments as being those of Mrs N.
What happened
Mrs N was involved in an accident whilst in her car. Initially RSA had told her it was likely to 
settle the claim on a 50/50 liability split with the other driver. But it later changed its mind and 
accepted responsibility for the accident on Mrs Ns behalf.
Mrs N complained to RSA. She wasnt happy that it had accepted she was at fault for the 
accident. She also said it hadnt told her she was going to do this. Mrs N had a 
representative helping her with her claim, but said shed had trouble getting in touch with 
RSA, and it hadnt called the representative back when it should have.
RSA said it had settled the claim in full, but it had done so on a without prejudice basis. 
Meaning Mrs N was free to take her own legal action if she wanted to. It accepted there were 
some issues with the handling of Mrs Ns claim that caused her unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. So it offered £125 to recognise this.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mrs N brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought RSA had made a reasonable decision in accepting Mrs N was at fault for the 
accident. But she agreed RSA could have handled things better. Our investigator thought 
RSAs offer of £125 was fair to recognise the delays in contacting her representative and 
confusion over who it could speak to about the claim. 
Mrs N thought £225 was a more suitable offer of compensation. As the matter hasnt been 
resolved it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N hasnt disputed our investigators findings on RSA accepting responsibility for the 
accident on her behalf. So the only thing I need to decide here is whether £125 is a fair offer 
to compensate Mrs N for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience RSA caused her.
Ive already told RSA that Im not satisfied that it does. RSA issued compensation for issues 
in the claim up until February 2020, but there were further issues after this point. And Ive 
already explained to RSA that I think the further poor communication added unnecessary 
distress to Mrs N. RSAs response was that because those issues havent been addressed 
in a final response letter, they shouldnt form part of this complaint and Mrs N should raise a 
new complaint. I disagree. I can see that RSA wrote to Mrs N in March to apologise for 
further communication failures, so it would be unreasonable to expect Mrs N to raise a new 
complaint on this issue when RSA has already had the opportunity to address it.
From RSAs notes, it appears liability was discussed and confirmed with RSA at the end of 
February. At this point, according to RSAs notes, it meant the handler with whom Mrs N had 
been in contact with would no longer be involved in the claim. But I cant see that this was 
communicated to Mrs N. The notes from the call where liability was discussed says Mrs N 
found the call overwhelming and a lot of information to process. 
A couple of days later, Mrs Ns representative called RSA, but it seems there was some 
confusion over whether the correct authority was on file. It appears a note was left for 
someone to call back, but it doesnt seem that this was done. 
Ive also seen a note on RSAs system from this time asking that Mrs N isnt transferred to 
the handler whom shed been dealing with before. Mrs N called RSA on a number of 
occasions in early March to complain, but it appears she discussed the complaint with 
different people and her upset is noted on these calls.
It was until around three weeks after the liability call that Mrs N was told of the current 
position of her claim. It seems clear to me from the notes that Mrs N didnt understand what 
RSAs actions, in relation to accepting liability, had meant.
Considering RSAs knowledge of Mrs Ns vulnerabilities, I think the handling of this part of 
the claim would have caused unnecessary distress to Mrs N. I find this could have been 
avoided if a call back had been arranged with the representative following her call at the end 
of February. Because that didnt happen, I think Mrs N would have been worried about what 
was happening for longer than she should have been. I can see why different case handlers, 
without explanation to Mrs N about why this was happening, could cause her distress.
Taking the above into account, I think Mrs Ns request for a further £100 compensation is fair 
and reasonable. So RSA needs to pay a total of £225 compensation, less any amount its 
already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc needs to pay Mrs N a total of 
£225 compensation, less any amount it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman