DRN-4148817
The complaint
Mr M complains that Amazon Payments UK Limited (APUK) has deactivated his sellers 
account and refuses to re-open it or to return funds held to the credit of the account.  
What happened
Mr M has explained that he opened an Amazon Sellers account about three years ago, and 
that he operates under a trading name. The business has an annual turnover of about 
£500,000 to £600,000. 
After the account had been open for about a year, APUK placed a block on it. That was lifted 
after around six months, and the money held in the account  about £6,000  was released.
In January 2022, around ten days after the suspension was lifted, APUK blocked the 
account again and asked for documents connected to the business. Mr M says that these 
were provided. APUK said however that they did not meet its requirements, so it would not 
unblock the account or release the funds held in it  about £1,600. 
Mr M complained to APUK, but it refused to lift the block or to release funds. Mr M referred 
the matter to this service. Initially, one of our investigators said that APUK should pay the 
money held on the account  although they did not recommend that the account be re-
opened. 
APUK did not accept the initial assessment and made further submissions. It said that the 
account terms allowed it, in the circumstances, to deactivate the account and to retain the 
sums held to its credit. A different investigator looked at what had happened and issued a 
second assessment, this time agreeing with APUK that its verification checks had not been 
completed as required and that it could therefore decline to return funds. 
Mr M asked that an ombudsman review the case.             
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that APUK was within its rights to ask for the documents it did in January 2022. 
Its request was in line with its regulatory obligations and KYC (or know your customer) 
requirements. In asking for those documents, APUK made clear that Mr M could not use the 
account until they had been supplied.
APUK did not accept that the documents supplied met its requirements. I believe that was an 
assessment it was entitled to make. It followed that the KYC verification checks had not 
been completed. APUKs requirements were not unreasonable, but the documents provided 
did not satisfy them. 
Because the KYC checks could not be completed, I am satisfied too that APUK was entitled 
to decline Mr Ms request to re-open the account and to release the funds.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Amazon Payments UK Limited to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman