DRN-3784438
The complaint
A company, which I refer to as S, complains that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited (Arch) unfairly 
declined a business interruption (BI) claim made under its Commercial Combined policy.
Mr S, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all comments and actions of Mr S as being those of S.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, following an escape of water claim at Ss premises, S made a BI claim for the losses 
it incurred while its business remained closed. 
Following a review of Ss claim, Arch said that there was no cover for BI because S failed to 
mitigate their losses. Arch said that records showed the average occupancy at Ss hotel was 
60% and therefore if S had taken reasonable steps to mitigate its losses, it could have used 
the upper floors of the hotel and avoided interruption to the business. 
Arch also said that immediate steps should have been taken to dry and sanitise the affected 
areas. Arch noted that the escape of water incident happened during lockdown and so it said 
that the affected areas could have been isolated and any contamination within the communal 
areas such as the fire escape routes, could have been cleaned in order to allow for use of 
the upper floors of the hotel once restrictions were lifted. Arch concluded that S failed to take 
reasonable actions to mitigate their losses and therefore declined its claim.
S didnt accept that it delayed taking any action. It explained that the leak was discovered in 
April 2021, by this time there was already significant mould growth. Liability for the damage 
had been confirmed in May 2021, at which point S appointed experts such as a restoration 
contractor and a damage management specialist, to review the damage and advise on the 
next steps. The experts report and subsequent estimates were received by mid-June 2021. 
S said it forwarded the report and estimates to Arch immediately, but it wasnt until mid-July 
2021 that a surveyor was appointed to validate the costs. S said it sent multiple chasers 
during this time, but nothing happened until 18 August 2021 when a new surveyor was 
instructed by Arch, who then appointed a forensic expert on 24 September 2021. S 
complains that a loss adjuster and surveyor should have been appointed sooner and steps 
taken to approve the remedial work which its experts had already reported on and provided 
estimates for. S didnt feel that it was appropriate for it to take any further action at this point 
as liability for the claim had been accepted by Arch and therefore it was awaiting its approval 
for remedial action.  
S argued that even though there was a delay from Arch, it appointed various experts, to 
advise on the correct way to deal with the contamination. The expert said in his report that it 
was evident from the fungal swab results that primary contamination and cross 
contamination conditions were present. Estimates for the costs involved in dealing with this 
was sent to Arch and their advice on how to proceed was followed. S is adamant that it did 
take all reasonable steps to mitigate its losses. S maintained that it was Archs actions in 
dealing with the claim which caused it inconvenience and delay in dealing with the claim. 
Unhappy with Archs response, S brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Ss complaint, and he recommended that it be upheld. He felt that Arch hadnt 
treated S fairly. He thought that S took reasonable steps in the circumstances to mitigate its 
losses and it wasnt a reasonable expectation for S to continue with its business while it 
there was cross contamination reported. He also found that there were delays in responses 
being provided by the loss adjuster and surveyor which caused S inconvenience and 
delayed the claim.
He suggested that to put things right, Arch should reconsider Ss BI claim in line with 
remaining policy terms and pay S £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its 
delay. Arch said that while it could see that S had acted in accordance with the advice 
provided by experts, they didnt agree that this would mean the whole hotel had to close. 
They said the areas affected by mould could have been isolated in order to allow Ss 
business to continue operating. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything S and Arch have said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by S, and Arch, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of this complaint centres on Archs decision to decline Ss BI claim. The relevant 
rules and industry guidance say that Arch have a responsibility to handle the claims promptly 
and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have to decide if I think Arch have 
applied the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable manner when declining Ss BI claim. 
Having reviewed everything available to me, I dont think they did, Ill explain why 
When considering whether or not it was reasonable for Arch to decline Ss claim, I have 
looked closely at the relevant policy terms and conditions.  
While it is accepted that damage was caused to the ground floor corridors at the hotel as a 
result of an insured event while the premises was closed during the coronavirus lockdown, 
Arch declined Ss BI claim on the basis that S didnt mitigate its losses. The most relevant 
part of Ss policy states: 
Claims Procedure
If in relation to any claim You have failed to fulfil any of the following conditions You
will lose Your right to indemnity or payment for that claim
You must ensure that
8. You carry out or permit to be taken any action which may be reasonably
practicable to prevent or minimise loss and/or interruption of the Business and to
prevent further accident Damage or InjuryArch said that S didnt take reasonable steps to mitigate its losses because drying 
equipment wasnt installed as soon as reasonably practicable, and it allowed the situation to 
deteriorate. It also believes that S could have done more to isolate the affected areas of the 
hotel and sanitise communal areas to utilise the upper floors of the hotel which were not 
damaged.  
As per the policy terms, Im satisfied that Ss policy contains a condition which states that S 
would have to show that it took reasonable steps to mitigate its losses in order for the BI 
claim to be considered.  
Ive carefully considered what actions S took and whether it was sufficient to minimise the 
loss and interruption to its business. 
The escape of water occurred while Ss business was closed due to the lockdown 
restrictions in place and therefore the exact date and time of the incident is not clear. 
However, I understand that it was discovered towards the end of May 2021, and its believed 
to have occurred about a week or so before. S said that local management were visiting the 
property to check on it and when the leak was identified, S was informed. Ss caretaker was 
able to stop the leak to prevent further damage. By this point there was already mould 
growth. Within a week of identifying the leak, S appointed various experts who specialise in 
the field to review the damage and provide advice on remedial action. This was done at Ss 
own expense while it was waiting for Arch to review its claim. S also then met Archs loss 
adjuster to in May 2021 to review the claim.
S said that it forwarded on the necessary reports and quotes for remedial action, from the 
experts it appointed, to Arch for authorisation in mid-June 2021 but there was a delay in this 
being approved and therefore it couldnt take any action while it awaited Archs approval. 
From the timeline which has been provided by S, nothing significant happened with 
approving Ss claim until at least September 2021. This doesnt appear to be in dispute. In 
this respect Im satisfied that S took reasonable steps to investigate the damage and seek 
expert advice within a reasonable timeframe. 
Arch said that S should have installed drying equipment sooner to prevent further damage 
from occurring. I note that the experts appointed to assess the damage confirmed that drying 
equipment shouldnt be installed because this may cause cross-contamination and spread 
the mould. They recommended restorative drying to be undertaken by an expert and I 
believe this formed part of the remedial action. I think its therefore reasonable that S acted 
on this advice and as the investigator said in his view, if the drying equipment had been 
installed it may have caused more damage. As liability had been accepted by Arch for Ss 
claim, I think it was reasonable for S to await approval from Arch. 
Arch said that if sanitisation had been completed and the damage isolated, the upper floors 
of the hotel could have been used to minimise the BI. I can see why Arch has suggested this 
as a solution, however I also note S explained that the fire exit from the upper areas to the 
ground floor passed through contaminated areas which would have also been used as the 
contractors access and so this area would likely be sectioned off to prevent further 
contamination which would have left S with limited fire exists. The experts appointed also 
said cross-contamination had occurred in the communal areas of the hotel. Based on this 
evidence, I agree with our investigator that reopening before it was safe to do so would have 
caused health and safety concerns, as well as reputational damage to Ss business.  
S also complained that there were delays in dealing with the claim and lack of responses 
from the loss adjuster and surveyor which resulted in having to chase them for answers. S 
says this caused it inconvenience and delayed the claim. When dealing with an insurance claim, I think some time lag is always to be expected 
however in this case I agree with our investigator that the delays caused S inconvenience in 
having to chase the loss adjuster and surveyor on various occasions and it also delayed the 
claim. 
In summary, Im satisfied that S did take reasonable steps to mitigate its losses and I dont 
consider that Arch acted fairly or reasonably in declining Ss BI claim for failing to mitigate its 
losses.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right Arch should reconsider Ss BI claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. 
Ive also thought about the delays and Im in agreement with our investigator that Arch 
should pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Ss complaint and I direct 
Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to: 
Reconsider Ss BI claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.  
Pay S £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its delays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman