DRN-2284153
Complaint
Ms B has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Ms B bought the policy in 1993 over the phone, after taking out her store card in 1991. The 
PPI covered her in the event she was off work due to illness or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill now explain why.
Ms B says she didnt agree to the PPI and it was added without her knowledge. AXA, on the 
other hand, says the PPI was sold to Ms B during a phone call and it would have gained her 
consent before adding it to Ms Bs store card. Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to 
provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time of the sale. This isnt 
surprising given the sale took place almost 28 years ago. Therefore I dont know what was 
said to Ms B when the policy was sold. So, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened at the time of sale.
It looks like Ms B initially applied for her store card without PPI, and AXA phoned her a few 
years later and sold her a policy. Following that call, a policy was added to her store card. At 
the time of sale, Ms B already had use of her card for some time before the PPI was added 
to it, so I think its likely she would have known she didnt have to have PPI with her card.  
Ms B also would have started paying for the PPI from January 1993 onwards. Had the PPI 
been added to her card without her knowledge, I would have thought she would have 
questioned the additional charges sooner than she did. Overall, I dont think Ive seen 
enough in this case to make me think the policy was added without Ms Bs agreement. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not Mrs B agreed to take it out, knowing that she didnt 
have to.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. It was up to Ms B to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ms B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions and unusual employment 
circumstances. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Ms B.
Ms B has told us she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us that while she 
didnt have any savings she was living with her parent and as a result, had sufficient 
disposable income available to her to cover her store card repayments. In addition to this, 
she says she couldve relied on her fianc and family if she needed to. 
Having thought about what Ms B has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Ms B would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit if Ms B was ever made redundant. 
Ive also thought about what Ms B has said about living with her parent and the fact that she 
had plenty of disposable income available to her. While I dont doubt what shes told us, I 
dont think this means the PPI wouldnt have been useful for her. Ms B has already told us 
that she had no savings. This suggests that if her income was impacted due to ill health or 
redundancy, her disposable income would reduce accordingly. Given the PPI would have 
paid a benefit at a time when Ms Bs income might have reduced or ceased, I still think the 
PPI could have been useful for her. 
Finally, Ive considered what Ms B has said about being able to rely on her fianc or family to 
help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt useful for 
her. While Ms Bs fianc or family may have wanted to help, their financial situation could 
change, so this help couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Ms B could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put her off of taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman