DRN-2289704
The complaint
Mr A complains about how TSB Bank plc allocates payments to his balance transfer offers.
What happened
Mr A says he took out two TSB balance transfer offers and has made regular account 
payments. He says he noticed at the end of 2019 that one of the transfer offers was now 
attracting interest and doesnt accept TSBs explanation about it is fair. Mr A says the 
balance transfers are mis-sold and the payment order is unfair. He would like compensation 
for what took place and for TSB to change its payment allocation to avoid this problem for 
other customers in similar situations. Mr A says TSB doesnt make its payment allocation 
clear in the application process and would like compensation for whats taken place.
TSB says its account terms and conditions make clear what the payment allocation would 
be, and in this case that payments would be allocated to the offer taken out first. It says the 
account statements also make that allocation order clear and so hasnt made a mistake.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought TSB had acted in line with the account terms and conditions and made its position 
clear about this issue on the account statements. The investigator didnt think the accounts 
or offers had been mis-sold.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says TSBs actions are not fair and he would like changes 
to be made on behalf of other customers caught in the same position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Mr As account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to 
when the account was first opened and when he completed the balance transfers. Having 
done so I can see that TSB makes clear the order in which it allocates payments, and in this 
case says it will allocate payments to the offer taken first. So, I dont think TSB has made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by allocating Mr As payments to the first balance transfer he took 
out. I can also see that TSB makes that same information clear on each monthly account 
statement and so in those circumstances I would have expected Mr A to have been aware of 
the payment allocation either from the terms and conditions or from those account 
statements.
I appreciate that Mr A says the payment allocation is unfair. But we are not TSBs regulator 
and its not our role to tell TSB how it runs its business or how it exercises its commercial 
judgement on these matters. I also cant consider the affect TSBs payment allocation has 
upon other customers.
Overall, Im satisfied TSB has acted inline with agreed account terms and conditions and 
that Mr A ought to have been aware of the payment allocation. For that reason, I cant fairly 
order TSB to pay compensation as Mr A would like or order it change the way it allocates 
payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman