DRN-4462370
The complaint and what happened
Ms O is unhappy with the length of time it took HSBC UK Bank Plc to send her some 
account statements and a replacement debit card. She thinks the bank should pay a 
significant amount of compensation to cover the financial, and other, losses and 
inconvenience she suffered as a result.
HSBC apologised for the inconvenience caused and offered £50 compensation to Ms O. 
She refused and asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC should be held responsible for all of the consequential 
losses Ms O had claimed. But she recommended the bank should pay a total of £150 
compensation. HSBC agreed, but Ms O did not and she also pointed out that the bank had 
actually increased its offer to £200 after shed referred the complaint to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the phones calls that took place in mid-July and early-August 2022, in which 
the statements and debit card were first discussed.
Having done so, and while I appreciate Ms Os strength of feeling, I agree with the outcome 
the investigator reached and with the reasons she gave. Like the investigator, I think the 
bank made mistakes here. But the evidence doesnt support Ms Os assertion that the losses 
shes claimed were reasonably foreseeable by the bank or stemmed solely from the delays 
HSBC caused in sending her the account statements. 
I would also add that the replacement debit card wasnt ordered during the first call in July 
2022. The call-handler confirmed one had been posted in March, they confirmed Ms Os 
address and she said she would check this out. It was only in the subsequent calls that she 
agreed for a replacement card to be ordered and sent to a branch where her brother could 
collect it because she was out of the country. And Ms O hasnt indicated that it wasnt 
subsequently delivered to branch, as expected.
As Ive already said, HSBC offered £200 compensation in March 2023, after Ms O had 
referred her complaint to this service and I think thats a fair and reasonable award in all the 
circumstances of this particular complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC should pay £200 to Ms O if it has not already done so. It 
should do so within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Ms O accepts my final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman