DRN-4447809
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr H have private medical insurance cover with BUPA Insurance Limited (Bupa), 
and complain about the service they received from Bupa when they wanted to claim for their 
daughters treatment. Ill call their daughter Miss B.
What happened
Miss B was investigated by a specialist with regards to potential reactions to foods, but no 
specific cause was found. As Miss B was experiencing a significant phobia of food as well as 
anxiety, it was thought she needed to see a psychologist. 
Miss B had treatment with a psychologist recognised by Bupa. However, as her symptoms 
continued, Mrs B and Mr H wanted her to be treated by a psychologist who specialised in 
food allergies. They said they were aware of two psychologists with this specialism, but 
neither were recognised by Bupa. 
Bupa allowed one of the psychologists (Dr J) to apply for recognition, and then authorised a 
claim for Miss B to see Dr J. But Mrs B and Mr H were unhappy with the process, and the 
length of time it took. They were also unhappy about the service they received from Bupa at 
this time.
Bupa issued its final response. It accepted that it should have provided Mrs B and Mr H with 
a better service and apologised for this. It pointed out that its clinician team isnt customer 
facing and only speaks with clinical providers, and also confirmed that a non-recognised 
provider isnt covered under the policy. Bupa paid £350 compensation for its poor service. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs B and Mr H brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He noted Bupa couldnt speed 
up the recognition process. However, he agreed that Bupa hadnt provided Mrs B and Mr H 
with a good level of service, though he thought the £350 that Bupa had paid them was 
reasonable compensation. 
Mrs B and Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, and said he hadnt addressed the 
fact that their daughter was steered towards a general psychologist by Bupa rather than a 
specialist. 
The matter has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr H wanted their daughter to see a psychologist with a particular 
specialism in food allergies. However, they were only aware of two psychologists with 
this specialism, and neither were recognised by Bupa. Though Bupa was able to give 
the names of recognised psychologists who were qualified to treat Miss Bs 
symptoms of phobia and anxiety. So I dont agree with Mrs B and Mr H that Bupa 
couldnt provide an appropriate specialist, even though I can of course appreciate 
why they wanted their daughter to have more specialised psychological treatment. 
When Miss Bs symptoms continued after seeing a psychologist recognised by Bupa, 
Mrs B and Mr H spoke with Bupa about other options. They said that Bupa had 
previously allowed Miss B to see a non-recognised specialist, and wanted Bupa to do 
so again. However, Bupa refused to do so. 
I can see that Bupa did previously authorise treatment (an initial consultation, minor 
diagnostics, and a follow-up consultation) with a non-recognised specialist. I dont 
know why Bupa did so, but that decision was up to Bupa. However, under the policy 
terms, Bupa is only required to authorise treatment with a recognised specialist. 
Bupa wasnt accepting applications from psychologists to be recognised at the time, 
but it made an exception here, so that Miss B could see Dr J. I think that was 
reasonable.
Mrs B and Mr H are unhappy about the length of time it took Bupa to recognise Dr J. 
However, this was outside of their contract of insurance and was a matter between 
Bupa and Dr J. So I cant comment on Bupas recognition process, or how long this 
took.
Bupa acknowledged that the service it provided could have been better. There were 
times when it didnt call Mrs B and Mr H back, and it didnt properly manage their 
expectations in respect of the recognition process. I see that it gave Mrs B and Mr H 
unrealistic timeframes for this. I think this was poor. Mrs B and Mr H were really 
worried about their daughters health, and Bupa ought to have given them the correct 
information, and kept them updated. Though it seems much of the frustration on 
Mrs B and Mr Hs part centred around Bupas recognition process and that its 
clinician team werent customer facing. And as Ive said, I cant comment on this.  
Overall, I think Bupas apology and compensation payment was reasonable in the 
circumstances, and reflected the impact to Mrs B and Mr H caused by Bupas poor 
service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that BUPA Insurance 
Limited has paid reasonable compensation for its poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman