DRN-2849522
The complaint
Mr C, on behalf of the estates of his late mother-in-law and sister-in-law (Mrs N and Miss N),
complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February. A summary of this says:
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in Miss Ns name when she and her
mother were applying for a joint mortgage with Halifax in 1994. The policy was taken out
during a meeting and provided Miss N with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
The monthly cost of the policy was £17.50 and the monthly benefit was £250. This would
have been paid for up to 24 months for each claim.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I made my
provisional decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to
have happened given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main questions I considered were:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mrs N and Miss Ns needs?
- Did Halifax give Mrs N and Miss N the information they needed to decide whether to take
out the policy?
My reasons for upholding the complaint were: 
I didnt know what Mrs N and Miss N were told when they were talking to Halifax about
buying the PPI. There arent any records of the meeting available from Halifax, but Mr C did
send us a copy of part of the application form for the PPI  and it appears Miss N signed
this. I cant know if she believed she had to have it in order for her and her mother to get the
mortgage they wanted, but I didnt need to make a finding about this as there are other
reasons why this complaint should be upheld.
Halifax says that this was an advised sale. This means that, in recommending the policy, it
needed to ensure that it suited Mrs N and Miss Ns needs. I didnt think it was suitable based 
on their circumstances at the time of the sale. I said this for two main reasons:
First, Miss N had a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. It was something
shed had since birth, and was the sort of condition that might well have affected her ability
to work  even if it hadnt done so in the years leading up to her taking out the policy. The
illness was included on her death certificate as a cause of death.
Miss N did sign a declaration that suggested she hadnt received medical advice for anything 
other than minor illness in the three years before she bought the policy. And Halifax sent us 
a copy of a policy that didnt specifically exclude long term conditions. I agreed the wording 
on the policy Halifax thinks it sold did suggest that.
However, on the summary of cover Mr C sent in theres a clause that says Miss N has no
cover for Any chronic or continuing disease suffered by and which is known to the insured
at the date of commencement of cover. That seemed to be at odds with the question posed
on the form, but this sort of exclusion is very common in PPI policies generally.
I thought Mr Cs paperwork carried more weight than the copy of the policy Halifax said it 
sold, because Mr Cs documents were copies of the original sent in 1994. Halifax, on the 
other hand, most likely selected the policy from a library of policies based on dates.
I thought there was substantial doubt as to whether Miss N could ever have made a
successful claim for any illness related to her condition. I thought that would have been a key
consideration for her and Mrs N when deciding if they should buy the policy.
Ive also saw evidence (as did Halifax) that Miss N was entitled to generous work related
benefits  six months full pay followed by 6 months half pay. And she had about £11,000 of
savings too. Mrs N had a pension of at least £5,500  and thats household income that 
would always have been available whether Miss N was working or not. She also
had savings  about £10,000 according to Mr C.
The mortgage itself was £20,000. So its feasible that  if Miss N couldnt work  she and her
mother could have repaid the mortgage in full. Theyd have then had Mrs Ns pension and
Miss Ns work benefits to rely on to meet their other living costs.
I thought, taking all of the above into account, Miss N and Mrs N would have been able to 
manage their outgoings for at least as long as the policy would have paid out for.
Having taken everything into consideration I thought, on balance, that the PPI wasnt 
suitable for Mrs N and Miss N. This is because of Miss Ns pre-existing medical condition, 
which could have limited her ability to make a successful claim for sickness, and because 
she and Mrs N between them had substantial work benefits and savings compared to the 
mortgage they had.
What the business should do to put things right
I suggested Halifax should put the estates of Mrs N and Miss N in the position theyd be in 
now if they hadnt taken out PPI. Details are replicated in my final decision, so I wont repeat 
them here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has accepted the provisional findings on behalf of the estates of Miss N and Mrs N.
Halifax says its received my provisional findings but hasnt responded to provide any 
information or evidence.Under these circumstances I see no reason to change my provisional thoughts. 
Putting things right
Halifax should put the estates of Mrs N and Miss N in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out PPI. Payment to two separate estates could create some 
unnecessary complications, particularly for Mr C and any other executors. It seems from 
the bank statements Ive seen that Miss N paid for the mortgage and insurance 
premiums. So Halifax should:
Pay the estate of Miss N the amounts paid for the PPI each month.
Add simple interest to each payment from when it was paid until the estate receives 
it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then 
on.
If Miss N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what 
she and Mrs N got for the claim from the amount it owes.
 HM Revenue & Customs normally requires Halifax to take off tax from interest like this. 
Halifax must give the executors for Mrs N and Miss N a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if asked for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
compensation as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors for 
the estates of Miss N and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman