DRN-4354401
Complaint
Mr H complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly brought about a hire-purchase agreement for 
him. Hes said that the agreement was unaffordable for him and so shouldnt have been 
arranged. 
The hire-purchase agreement was brought about by a brand, called Ratesetter, which 
since Mr Hs agreement was entered into has been taken over by Metro Bank PLC. For ease 
of reference, Ill refer to Ratesetter in this decision.
Background
In December 2017, Ratesetter operated the electronic platform in relation to lending which 
led to Mr H being provided with finance to purchase a used car. The cash price of the vehicle 
was £13,500.00. Mr H didnt pay a deposit and applied for a loan to cover the entire 
purchase price.  
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £13,296.61 (comprising of interest of 
£13,296.60, and an option to purchase fee of 1p), and the total amount to be repaid of 
£26,796.61 was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £446.61. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Ratesetter 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with our adjudicator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Ratesetter needed to make sure that it didnt bring about Mr Hs agreement irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr H could make his payments in a sustainable manner before 
approving his loan. And if the checks Ratesetter carried out werent sufficient, I then need to 
consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for pre-lending checks to be less thorough 
 in terms of how much information is gathered and what is done to verify that information  
in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think a firm needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, 
the amount lent was high, or the information it had  such as a significantly impaired credit 
history  suggested the firm needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to 
repay what they were being lent. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Hs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Ratesetter says it approved Mr Hs application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mr H. During this assessment, Mr H provided details of his monthly income 
and this was cross referenced against payslips and information held by credit reference 
agencies. Ratesetter says it also carried out credit searches on Mr H.
Ive thought about what Mr H and Ratesetter have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Ratesetter carried out did go far enough. Ratesetters searches showed that Mr H had had 
previous difficulties with credit. I can see he had previously defaulted on credit commitments. 
So, in my view, Ratesetter needed to take further steps to verify Mr Hs actual living costs, 
given what the credit search showed in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Ratesetter didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Ratesetter is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr H. 
Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly 
payment, I would have expected Ratesetter to have had a reasonable understanding about 
Mr Hs regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Mr H has provided us with  including his bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Mr Hs committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments are deducted from his monthly 
income at the time, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement  albeit the bank statements do show a large amount 
of cash withdrawals. 
I accept that Mr H has now told us the reason he was making cash withdrawals.. But what I 
need to think about here is what did Ratesetter need to have done in order for its checks to 
have been proportionate  in other words, what were Mr Hs actual regular living expenses 
(bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the credit search)?  given this 
was a first agreement Ratesetter was bringing about for Mr H.  
Bearing in mind checking bank statements wasnt the only way for Ratesetter to have found 
out more about Mr Hs actual living costs  it could have obtained copies of bills or other 
evidence of payment etc  I dont think that proportionate checks would necessarily shown 
up the cash withdrawals, let alone led Ratesetter to realise the reasons for this. So I dont 
think that Ratesetter could reasonably be expected to have known about the nature and 
extent of Mr Hs additional spending. 
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Ratesetters 
checks before bringing about this hire purchase agreement for Mr H did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
Ratesetter from bringing about this agreement for him. Im therefore not upholding this 
complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.Although Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, I would remind Ratesetter of its continuing 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event Mr H is having 
difficulty making payments to clear the amount outstanding and it chooses to collect 
payments from him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman