DRN-3506676
The complaint
Mr J complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Mr J also complains that the Everyday Lending representatives pressurised him into 
increasing a loan he had applied for from £1,500 to £3,000. 
Mr J says that as a result he has suffered distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Using information from Everyday Lending, here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Approved Amount Total to 
payrepaid
1 20 February 2020 £1,000 for 
18 months£2,237.76 30 September 2021
2 30 September 2021 £3,000 for 
24 months£289.84 Outstanding
Loan 1 has been repaid. Mr J has not paid much back towards loan 2. 
After Mr J had complained to Everyday Lending in November 2021, he received a final 
response letter (FRL) dated 24 November 2021. Everyday Lending accepted that it had 
done the wrong thing for loan 2 and it has confirmed to us that it will put that right for him. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and also thought that loan 1 ought to be 
upheld as part of Mr Js irresponsible lending complaint.
Our adjudicator did not think he had enough evidence to come to a view about Mr J having 
been pressurised into taking loan 2 at £3,000 as opposed to £1,500 as Mr J says. And so, 
our adjudicator did not uphold that part of the complaint. He did not consider that an 
additional payment for compensation over and above the usual redress for irresponsible 
lending complaints was warranted. 
Everyday Lending agreed with our adjudicator and so the irresponsible lending element of 
the complaint appears to have been resolved for both loans. Mr J was not content with some 
parts of our adjudicators view. The remaining parts of the complaint in dispute have been 
summarised by Mr J and I set them out below. 
Mr J has said that: 
othe loan 1 refund ought not to be used by being off-set against the debt he owes on 
loan 2, but paid directly to him
ohe maintains that he was pressurised into loan 2 being larger than he wanted and so 
he says it should be altered to be a £1,500 loan
oif that loan 2 is altered to be one for £1,500 he accepts he owes money on it and was 
content to repay at a rate of £50 a month
ohe wants a distress and inconvenience compensation payment of £150
ohe wants his credit file rectified
Mr J has explained to us that he was a gambler and now has sought help and is gaining 
ground to overcome his gambling which is good to know. This is relevant as Mr Js 
justification for the distress and inconvenience payment hes asking me to review is this:
Whilst waiving the interest on both loans partly puts me back in the situation I would 
have been in, I feel large companies who prey on those with poor credit ratings, 
pressured re-loans to spiral them into a dark place, there should be a penalty or 
compensation awarded. I think these companies should also to some degree take 
financial responsibility for their lack of affordability checks also.
Everyday Lending has written to us with clear submissions on why it would not be 
appropriate to pay any refund monies directly to Mr J and it says that to off-set what it owes 
to Mr J against what Mr J owes to it is more appropriate. 
The remaining part of the unresolved complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
As Everyday Lending has accepted that it needs to put things right for Mr J in relation to the 
lending then I do not need to go into further details on those points and so I have moved on 
to consider the outstanding parts still concerning Mr J. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Pressure to take £3,000
Mr J has sent to us (as has Everyday Lending) a recorded call from 30 September 2021, and 
I have listened to that call recording. Mr J telephoned Everyday Lending following receipt of 
a text from Everyday Lending. Mr J opened the conversation as it seems that his current 
loan (loan 1) was about to end and so he was responding to the text about possible further 
lending. 
What followed between Mr J and the Everyday Lending representative was an exchange of 
information about Mr Js financial situation and whether anything had altered since his 
application for loan 1,18 months earlier. Mr J was asked what he needed and he said that 
£1,500 would cover his outstanding bills and some home improvements. 
The Everyday Lending representative asked him to reconfirm his accommodation, 
employment, income, and what his partner earned and told Mr J that theyd be able to give 
him a better rate for any new loan. And after a short hold on the telephone the Everyday 
Lending representative explained that Mr Js credit score had improved and it could agree to 
a loan for £1,500 loan. However, Mr J would have to come to the branch with identification, a payslip, and two months worth of bank statements before it was confirmed. And an 
appointment was made.
Everyday Lending has sent to us all the files it has for Mr J about the loans, and for loan 2 
there are no records about that appointment and what was said. Mr J has alleged that he 
was pressured into taking £3,000 rather than £1,500. 
Mr J may feel strongly about this but theres no evidence to suggest this was the case. And 
as we are an alternative dispute resolution service, we look at matters in an informal way. It 
would not be appropriate to seek to resolve this part of Mr Js grievance by testing the 
evidence in the way that a court would  such as  examination and cross examination of 
Mr J and of the individuals in the Everyday Lending branch at the time. That is not what we 
do here and so Ive looked at what we have. 
Having reviewed what I have I can see that there are annotations on the bank statements 
and a discussion appears to have been had about the Nationwide account Mr J had as well 
as the Santander and the Barclays accounts. But theres nothing to indicate to me that Mr Js 
agreement to £3,000 was anything other than normal. Mr J appears to have signed a Direct 
Debit mandate form and initialled a series of boxes to confirm that he has had several 
elements about the loan explained to him, including the 14 day cancellation/withdrawal 
rights. I can take it no further.
Reading Mr Js recent submissions as to why he wanted an ombudsman to look at it all, 
Mr Js strength of feeling appears to touch on responsibility. Mr J seems to want me to come 
to a conclusion in which Everyday Lending would be penalised in some way. That is not our 
remit. Any award that the Financial Ombudsman makes is not punitive. We are not 
regulators of the financial industry. We consider financial complaints impartially, and so 
I have approached the complaint with that in mind. 
Everyday Lending has accepted responsibility for its lack of affordability checks by agreeing 
to uphold loan 2 in the FRL and agreeing to our adjudicators view earlier this year about 
loan 1. And so as Everyday Lending has accepted that it ought to have done more I do not 
need to make any further findings on that part.
Altering the lending agreement
The loan 2 agreement was for £3,000 and Mr J agreed to it. I am not able to change a 
contract by altering the amount agreed to. Only a court can do that and so its for Mr J to 
take independent legal advice on that.
The crux of his request to alter the agreement from £3,000 to £1,500 is that Mr J is asking 
me to agree that he is not expected to repay £1,500 of the £3,000 loan and so he is asking 
me to direct that Everyday Lending writes off £1,500 of capital. Mr J received the benefit of 
that £3,000 capital when he took loan 2 and I see no grounds on which to direct Everyday 
Lending to write that sum off. 
I have picked up on Everyday Lendings point that these sorts of agreements do have 14 day 
cooling off periods and so even if Mr J did change his mind soon after signing the 
agreements for loan 2, he had that option. Its a fair point by Everyday Lending and reduces 
the argument presented by Mr J that he was somehow bounced into taking £3,000 and that 
after the agreement had been signed, there was little he could do about it. Because that 
withdrawal/cancellation provision does give Mr J an option to reverse out of the agreement if 
he had wanted to. And that is part of the consumer protection laws we have in this country. 
Distress and inconvenience paymentMr J applied for the loan. He says his distress has arisen out of the lending. I have already 
outlined the reasons for not concluding that Mr J was pressurised into the loan. And so, 
there is no justification for any compensation in relation to that part of Mr Js complaint as I 
do not uphold that part of Mr Js complaint.
Mr J has also said: I feel large companies who prey on those with poor credit ratings, 
pressured re-loans to spiral them into a dark place, there should be a penalty or 
compensation awarded.
But this is not a reason to award compensation to Mr J. As I have outlined earlier, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator and awards we make are not ones awarded 
to punish the business in some way. That would mean that they are effectively a fine and 
that is not my remit. 
As the usual approach for redress we take for these sorts of cases includes an 8% interest 
refund part then that usually covers the compensatory element for the complainant  here for 
Mr J.
It is complicated in Mr Js situation whereby most of Loan 2 remains outstanding and there is 
due to be a loan 1 refund. I do think that loan 1 should be dealt with separately to loan 2 and  
so, the redress section for Mr J is set out below in the putting things right section and that is 
what I consider fair and reasonable for both parties in these circumstances. It differs to the 
redress the adjudicator outlined.
Set-off
It is perfectly reasonable in most of the cases I see for the monies owed by the respondent 
business (the lender) to the successful complainant to be off-set against the debt the 
complainant owes the business. And Mr Js situation is no different. 
I accept Everyday Lendings submissions about Mr Js payment history on loan 2 which is a 
modest sum considering the amount owed. It has told us earlier this week that Mr J owes it 
£2,710.16 on loan 2 after all outstanding interest and charges have been removed. Everyday 
Lending confirmed that Mr J has received a total of £4,000 from it. 
Everyday Lending has explained that since loan 2 was approved the first repayment went 
through by direct debit in October 2021 but the second repayment in November 2021 was 
reclaimed by Mr J through his bank and the direct debit indemnity provisions on 
30 November 2021. Everyday Lending has said that there was no justification for this. 
I make no finding in relation to that direct debit indemnity issue as its not part of this 
complaint. However, I have noted this.
It seems that Mr J has paid nothing further towards loan 2 since the first payment in 
October 2021 despite seeming to accept that he owed at least the £1,500 even if he 
disputed the full £3,000. 
Everyday Lending has told us we have little confidence he will pay once he is in receipt of 
funds from Loan 1. Everyday Lending has concerns that he may not be able to pay what he 
owes to it and I consider that its concerns are justified. 
So, as is usual, I will be directing that any monies due to Mr J be off-set against the debt 
Mr J owes to Everyday Lending on loan 2.And as I have outlined earlier, I have no reasons or justification for directing that Everyday 
Lending should write off any portion of the capital sums Mr J received from it. 
There are advantages of having the debt reduced substantially by the set-off as it means 
that Mr J will be debt free from Everyday Lending all the quicker if his balance to pay is less. 
Mr J has said that he will pay the balance and I will leave that to Mr J and Everyday Lending 
to arrange a suitable and mutually beneficial repayment plan on any remaining balance. 
I remind Everyday Lending that it must approach Mr Js debt in a positive and sympathetic 
way. 
My decision
In the circumstances, I endorse the fact that Everyday Lending has agreed to put things right 
for loans 1 and 2 and the putting things right section outlines what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable redress. 
It differs to the redress outlined by our adjudicator and I think that what I have directed here 
is fair as it does compensate Mr J with 8% interest on the refunds for the payments made on 
Loan 1 as and when they were made up to the date of settlement of the complaint. That loan 
commenced in February 2020 which is over two years ago.
I do not uphold Mr Js complaint about being pressured into taking a loan larger than the one 
he applied for. I do not consider that any additional compensation is due to Mr J for the 
reasons I have given above. 
Putting things right
Everyday Lending shouldnt have given Mr J loans 1 and 2. 
Loan 1 has been repaid in full. Loan 2 remains outstanding. 
If Everyday Lending has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Everyday Lending should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 1, not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Everyday Lending should calculate 8% simple interest* on the interest, fees and charges 
payments made by Mr J which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J 
originally made each of the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Everyday Lending should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
Loan 2, and treat any repayments made by Mr J as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr J having made overpayments then it should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Everyday Lending 
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 2. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr J. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Everyday Lending should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr J. E) Everyday Lending should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in 
relation to loans 1 and 2 but that only needs to be done for loan 2 once it has been repaid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. It 
should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman