DRN-3187482
The complaint
Mr C complains about the delay he believes was caused by A J Bell Management Limited 
(trading as AJ Bell Investcentre) referred to as A J Bell, in transferring his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) to a new platform.
What happened
Mr C held a SIPP with A J Bell. On 14 February 2020 Mr Cs adviser requested a transfer of 
his SIPP, in cash, to a new provider. A J Bell confirmed receipt of the request and informed 
the adviser it would need to disinvest all the assets held within Mr Cs funds and share 
service accounts. The adviser confirmed it had requested that the investments be sold and 
asked for the transfer to be completed as soon as possible.
On 24 February 2020 A J Bell contacted the adviser to confirm that one of the funds and 
shares accounts had been sold but a second one remained fully invested. It asked the 
adviser to confirm when those assets were sold. 
The adviser contacted A J Bell and confirmed that it had disinvested the assets but 
wondered if it may have mistakenly reinvested some of them. However, A J Bell confirmed 
that all the assets had actually been disinvested and were now within the SIPP.
But by 3 March 2020, as some assets remained unsold, A J Bell sent a further request for an 
update of the disinvestment to the adviser. The adviser believed that A J Bell hadnt 
explained to it that a previous error had been made  so it thought Mr Cs transfer had been 
delayed unnecessarily and he had been financially disadvantaged. Both parties agreed to 
transfer around £653,000 of the funds that had already been disinvested  while A J Bell 
looked into what information it had previously given the adviser.  
The cash that was held in the SIPP was transferred to the new provider by 9 March 2020 
and once the outstanding assets were sold the remaining cash balance was transferred on 
25 March 2020.  
A J Bell didnt think it had caused any delays. It said that, while it accepted it may have 
provided incorrect information, it was the advisers responsibility to ensure all assets were 
sold before the transfer could proceed. It said it had explained on several occasions before 
the initial transfer request, that any investments held within the SIPP needed to be 
disinvested before the transfer could complete. So it didnt agree it was responsible for any 
financial loss Mr C had suffered.  
The adviser said it had contacted A J Bell to confirm it had disinvested the funds properly 
and was told it had  thereby fulfilling its responsibility. It wanted compensation for any loss 
Mr C had suffered between the time it was given the incorrect information and the time that 
was corrected. But A J Bell still didnt accept it caused any delay. It said the adviser had 
been able to view Mr Cs investments on its website and had overall responsibility for 
monitoring and disinvesting the various funds.
Mr C remained unhappy with the outcome so his adviser brought his complaint to us, where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter but thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said the adviser may have reinvested some of the assets rather than disinvesting them 
all. Although he accepted that A J Bell might have provided incorrect information to the 
adviser, he thought the responsibility for the processing of the transfer fell on Mr C and his 
adviser. 
He said he took into account that, following its error, A J Bell released the cash that was 
available to the SIPP and didnt charge a second transfer fee when the remaining cash 
became available for transfer. So he thought A J Bell had tried to act fairly and didnt think it 
was responsible for the delay.
The adviser didnt agree. It said the cause of the delay  and therefore the complaint- lies 
with A J Bell for providing incorrect information that was crucial to the transfer process. But 
as the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view the adviser asked for the complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review.  
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld and that A J Bell should 
compensate Mr C by comparing the value of his SIPP with a notional value assuming the 
transfer had completed seven working days earlier. If there was a loss A J Bell should, 
where possible, pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan. I made the following points 
in support of my findings:
A J Bells terms and conditions (T&Cs) were clear that Mr Cs adviser needed to sell 
the investments within the pension fund and that the adviser had sight of the account 
to make sure they had been sold and disinvested where required. 
But, having considered the responsibilities of each party  A J Bells offering didnt 
provide advice or recommendations as part of its service, Id carefully considered the 
communication between A J Bell and the adviser.
The adviser received an email on 24 February 2020 which stated that, while one of 
Mr Cs funds and shares accounts had been sold the other remained invested. So it 
called A J Bell to discuss the matter and was informed that both funds had been sold 
and would settle tomorrow.
I thought the adviser was entitled to rely on this information without needing to check 
the accounts further. I thought A J Bells reasons for thinking the accounts were 
closed (crossover of information) were also reasonable. 
So when the adviser received a further request to disinvest seven days later, I 
thought that delay had been AJ Bells responsibility because it had made it clear to 
the adviser previously that it didnt need to do anything.
Responses to the provisional decision  
While Mr Cs adviser accepted the outcome of the provisional decision in principle, it did 
dispute the dates that I had used for the redress calculation. 
It said it agreed that Mr C should be put back as close to the position hed now be in and so 
it was correct to use the 24 February 2020 as the comparison date. But it didnt sell the 
funds on 3 March 2020 because it was waiting for the outcome of A J Bells investigation  
so it thought we should compare against the date the funds were actually sold.  
A J Bell didnt provide any substantive response to the provisional decision findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, and in particular taken into account Mr Cs advisers comments around 
the redress methodology, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
In February 2020 Mr C wanted to transfer his SIPP with A J Bell to a new platform provider 
and asked his adviser to begin the process  which it did by disinvesting his assets within 
the SIPP. This process continued until the adviser was told by A J Bell  in an email from 
24 February 2020, that one of Mr Cs accounts had been sold but the other remained 
invested. It was at this point the adviser spoke with A J Bell to sort out any confusion and 
was told, I know whats happened with this.you have sold both of them down, its just the 
funds and shares service one.the first onethe settlement dates on the fund were a lot 
soonerits just a crossover periodon fund and shares service two..the last of the funds 
is settling tomorrow.
A J Bells T&Cs had made it clear that it only offered an execution only type of service and 
that the adviser was responsible for the selling of the investments within the SIPP. It was 
also responsible for the ongoing monitoring of the account. So when the adviser contacted 
A J Bell it would have known that ultimately it was responsible for monitoring the progress of 
the transfer and selling any outstanding investments or funds.
But the adviser wasnt responsible for actually transferring the funds to the new provider and 
could only take actions based on the information that A J Bell provided. So, in my view, 
following the information A J Bell provided that both funds had been sold, when the adviser 
asked, So that will be fine will it, we dont need to do anything? and was told Thats 
absolutely fine theyll settle tomorrow, it was entitled to rely on that information. The adviser 
wasnt involved in the process of actually transferring the funds, so when it was told that it 
had carried out its tasks of disinvesting the assets within the SIPP I can understand why it 
would then have concluded that the matter was in hand and didnt require any further input 
from it.
A J Bell says the adviser had visibility of the SIPP online and was able to monitor its 
progress and check the position of the funds at any time. But I dont think the adviser was 
obliged to continually check the progress especially when it had been made aware by A J 
Bell that had discharged its responsibilities to disinvest. I think the adviser was entitled to 
rely on that crucial information, especially as it was reasonable to assume that it was more 
up to date than the email that the adviser had responded to. I think it was fair to believe that 
A J Bell was in possession of the up to date live position of the transfer. 
However, I think A J Bells provision of incorrect information was no more than a genuine 
misunderstanding here, because when A J Bell asked the adviser for an update of the 
disinvestment on 3 March 2020, and was made aware of what had happened previously, it 
agreed to transfer the funds that had already been sold to cash and the unsold assets were 
then sold and transferred on 25 March 2020. 
But I think that the delay in progressing this transfer from 24 February to 3 March 2020 was 
A J Bells responsibility. I say that because of the incorrect information it provided which I 
think the adviser was entitled to rely on and which caused the transfer not to be progressed 
as the adviser assumed it had carried out its duties and sold all of the assets. 
So I think A J Bell should carry out the calculation below in order to see if Mr C suffered any 
financial loss as a result of the delay.
However, Mr Cs adviser has asked me to clarify the redress formula I proposed as it thinks I 
may have used a second date as a comparison to measure the delay, instead of using the actual date the funds were sold. It said it would ideally like to know the amount of 
compensation due before the I complete this decision.
I think I should explain that I havent suggested that Mr C ought to have sold the funds on 
3 March 2020. Ive simply used that date to show that there was a seven day delay in 
progressing matters. If A J Bell had given the correct information on 24 February 2020 the 
whole process would have continued as it did  but would have completed seven days 
earlier. Any reference to 3 March 2020 is somewhat irrelevant as it just simply confirms how 
many days earlier things could have progressed when the adviser was made aware on that 
date that one of the pension accounts remained unsold. 
In my provisional decision I said that A J Bell should compare the value of the SIPP today 
with a notional value had the whole transfer process progressed seven days earlier. This is 
the position Mr C would now be in had the transfer not been suspended for the period that 
the adviser thought the funds had been sold but had actually remained invested during that 
time.
 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if his transfer had completed at the earliest opportunity without any errors which 
may have caused delays. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must A J Bell do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, A J Bell must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with its notional value had the 
transfer completed seven working days earlier. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual 
value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
A J Bell should add interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the final decision 
to settlement (if not settled within 28 days of the business receiving the complainant's 
acceptance.)
Mr Cs adviser has confirmed that Mr C holds fixed protection and compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
So as A J Bell is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. 
But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If A J Bell deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. A J Bell should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if A J 
Bell totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that A J Bell Management Limited trading as A J Bell 
Investcentre should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
A J Bell Management Limited trading as A J Bell Investcentre should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman