DRN-3805677
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AGS) declined a claim on his income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Mr S worked in a high-pressured job within the banking industry. He had a group income 
protection policy through his employer that was underwritten by AGS. 
 
He started to experience headaches and exhaustion. And in November 2020 he became 
absent from work due to fatigue and an inability to concentrate and was signed off work by 
his General Practitioner (GP) with fatigue. 
Since being off work, Mr S was diagnosed with high blood pressure and high cholesterol and 
put under the care of a cardiologist. He also had a non-functioning left kidney, so was put 
under the care of a urologist.
Mr S made a claim on his income protection policy. He said he was unable to work very long 
hours, or more than part time and needed to work in a low stress environment with regular 
breaks.
AGS reviewed all Mr Ss medical records and the reports from his treating specialists. His 
cardiologist said Mr S would need lifelong treatment for his blood pressure and cholesterol, 
but he didnt have any cardiac symptoms or restriction on his level of activity. He confirmed 
Mr S should be leading a normal life on his medication. 
The urologist said Mr Ss chronic renal failure would be partially responsible for his fatigue. 
He recommended he try to reduce his work hours and, if necessary, reduce the number of 
days he worked because this would benefit his health. 
AGS declined the claim. They said Mr S didnt meet the definition of incapacity set out in his 
policy schedule. This was largely based on the cardiologist reporting Mr S should be able to 
lead a normal life. And that during their Form Health Vocational Rehabilitation assessment 
Mr S didnt display any evidence of fatigue or concentration issues. They also gave weight to 
the fact Mr S confirmed he didnt have issues with any activities of daily living. 
In March 2022 Mr S was made redundant. He appealed the decision so AGS reviewed what 
had happened and maintained their position. They said there wasnt any new evidence to 
demonstrate Mr Ss conditions prevented him from performing the material and substantial 
duties of his role. 
Mr S referred the matter to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and 
said she didnt think AGS had acted unfairly. Mr S disagreed. In summary he said: 
He met the criteria of incapacity because his consultant urologist was concerned 
about his high blood pressure and wanted to get it under control quickly, to avoid 
having to operate to remove Mr Ss nonfunctioning kidney. 
He was told by the urologist it was important to keep his stress levels as low as 
possible before he was operated on  - so he wouldnt be able to work because it was 
such a highly pressured environment and a long commute if he wasnt working from 
home. 
During this whole process he also unfortunately caught Covid -19. He suffered from 
asthma, so he was referred to hospital for a chest x-ray and prescribed a steroid. He 
says during this time he couldnt physically do many activities as he was left 
exhausted. 
It would be unfair for him to be penalised for following the medical professionals 
advice that he was too unwell to work. 
So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The burden of proof is on Mr S to prove he has a valid 
claim under his policy by showing he was fully incapacitated. 
Mr Ss policy schedule defines incapacity as:
 As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and 
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other work or 
occupation. 
Its not for me to decide whether Mr S was fit to work due to his illness. My role is to decide
whether it was fair and reasonable for AGS to decline the claim he made on his income 
protection policy. Having done so, on balance I dont think it was unreasonable for AGS to 
decline cover for this claim. Ill explain my reasons in more detail below.
Its not in dispute that Mr S was suffering from both high blood pressure and high 
cholesterol in addition to having a non-functioning left kidney.  There just isnt enough 
evidence that he was suffering from symptoms that were severe enough to prevent 
him from performing his duties at work.  
Ive carefully considered the reports from both Mr Ss treating consultants, alongside 
his GP and occupational health records. His urologist confirms Mr S was referred to 
him due to fatigue and lethargy and advised his chronic renal failure would be 
partially responsible for this. He confirmed to AGS he suggested a low stress 
environment, good diet and healthy lifestyle including exercise to help him. He also 
recommended that Mr S tried to reduce his working hours as reducing stress levels 
would be beneficial and it was important to keep stress levels as low as possible 
before he was operated on. 
Its clear Mr Ss kidney condition was significant; however, the evidence shows it was 
being treated conservatively and there isnt enough to demonstrate Mr S was 
functionally incapable of performing his occupation whilst waiting for his surgery to 
remove the non-functioning kidney. Although I appreciate how avoiding stressful 
situations would help Mr Ss health and be beneficial before surgery  this is a 
preventative measure and not persuasive evidence he was actually unable to work in 
his role. 
The cardiologist report makes no reference to any physical symptoms such as Mr Ss fatigue, headaches, back pains or breathing difficulties. He confirmed Mr S didnt 
have any cardiac symptoms and there wasnt any restriction on his level of activity or 
capability. In his opinion, medically and functionally he expected Mr S to lead a 
normal life on his medication. 
This is a detailed piece of evidence about Mr Ss functional capability during the 
relevant time and in the future, so I think it was reasonable for AGS to give 
considerable weight to it. 
I appreciate Mr S didnt want to go against the advice from his GP and Occupational 
Health (OH) that he shouldnt work. These are both valid medical opinions, but the 
test I must apply is whether their evidence is enough to demonstrate Mr S meets the 
specific definition of incapacity set out in his schedule of insurance. 
The January 2021 OH report advised Mr S to take time off to seek psychological 
support to help with strategies for coping with stress and anxiety about his health. 
During the next assessment in February 2021, Mr S told Occupational Health that his 
urologist said he needed need kidney surgery in May, so his urologist had told him to 
avoid stress and remain off work until after his surgery. Occupational Health agreed 
with the urologists advice. 
Im not persuaded that being advised to take time off for coping with stress, or being 
told to avoid stress, is evidence that Mr Ss symptoms of fatigue were severe enough 
to prevent him from working. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AGS to give 
less weight to these reports. 
AGS have also made reference to the Form Health Vocational Rehabilitation Report 
carried out in February 2021. Mr S was claiming for fatigue that impacted his ability to 
work  and he specifically reported problems with being able to focus and 
concentrate for periods longer than 10 minutes. However, during his 70-minute 
assessment there wasnt any evidence of memory or concentration issues being 
present and Mr S was able to maintain focus throughout. 
Im also mindful that Mr S recorded on his claim form that he was able to watch 
television, drive, read and use his computer  all of which usually require 
concentration for more than 10 minutes. This suggests that although his symptoms of 
fatigue and poor concentration affected his ability to work, they didnt appear to 
impact his ability to perform daily activities. I dont think it was unfair for AGS to take 
account of this and rely on it as evidence to show, on balance, Mr S didnt appear to 
meet the definition of incapacity.
Its also important to note that Mr S has referred to feeling stressed at work, 
especially due to working more than his contractual hours. And this has left him 
feeling exhausted. This type of workplace stress would be considered a workplace 
matter between Mr S and his employer and isnt something that would be covered 
under this type of policy because it only provides benefit for absences due to illness 
or injury.  
Im sorry to hear Mr S also suffered from Covid-19. But again, based on Mr Ss 
medical records, there isnt enough evidence to support this prevented him from 
being able to perform the duties of his role. Im also mindful that he was working from 
home during this period so wouldnt have been expected to do his long journey into 
the office.
As explained above, the onus is on Mr S to provide enough evidence to support he meets 
the definition of incapacity. I appreciate he was told it would be beneficial to avoid stressful 
situations before any kidney surgery, but that doesnt mean he meets the definition of 
incapacity. Im not persuaded there is enough evidence in his medical records to show why Mr S was medically unable to work his contracted hours due to the fatigue he reported. 
I think it was fair for AGS to place significant weight on the treating consultant cardiologists 
opinion regarding Mr Ss ability to lead a normal life. And that Mr S appeared to confirm his 
fatigue and poor concentration hadnt overly impacted his ability to perform daily activities. 
I know this will be disappointing but on balance I dont think it was unreasonable for AGS to 
decline Mr Ss claim and there arent reasonable grounds I could ask them to do anything 
further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman