DRN-3071344
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS).
What happened
In March 2019, Mr O entered into a hire agreement with VWFS to acquire a brand-new car. 
The duration of the hire period was 36 months. Mr O paid an advance rental payment of 
around £3,067 and there were 35 monthly rentals of around £367 with the first one payable 
one month after the registration date.  
In November 2020, Mr O contacted VWFS. He says he received a letter that the car had a 
recall notice due to a safety fault with the starter-alternator. He says the letter stipulates that 
the repair would take around 2 hours, but he says that two different dealerships told him that 
it would take a day or two to rectify. He says that they also couldnt offer him a courtesy car, 
drop him off, collect the car, or allow him to stay at the dealership while it was being repaired 
due to Covid-19 restrictions. Also, Mr O says he was inconvenienced as he couldnt park the 
car in a multi-story car park due to the fault, and he felt unsafe having his family in the car 
too. He is also unhappy with the customer service he received from VWFS, when he was 
trying to sort out this issue. He says that, because VWFS has been unreasonable in 
providing a fair resolution, he feels he has no option but to reject the car.  
In December 2020, VWFS wrote to Mr O. In this correspondence they said that they are 
unable to accept Mr Os request to return the vehicle free of charge, because a technical 
solution for the recall is available. They say that the starter-alternator requires replacement 
on the affected cars as a precautionary measure and the work will be completed free of 
charge. They apologised for the level of service Mr O received from them, and, in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused, they offered him one monthly rental of around 
£367. In this correspondence they go on to explain that the early termination charge of 
around £3,576 is payable as per his terms and conditions, and if this remains unpaid, they 
said they may report late payment markers to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr O feels that the one-month rental payment back doesnt compensate him properly for
the inconvenience caused, and he thinks that he should not be responsible for the early 
termination amount of £3,576. So, he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed with the investigator.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 17 September 2021. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint, but I want to
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr O acquired the car under a hire agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. VWFS is the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with
complaints about their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements 
such as the one Mr O entered into. 
Under the agreement there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. I think in this case 
those relevant circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car 
and the cars price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from 
minor defects, safety, and durability.
In this case, the car that Mr O acquired was brand new. So, the car should have been in 
perfect working order, free from minor defects.
The CRA sets out that Mr O has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, he would need to ask for rejection within that 
time. Mr O would not be able to retrospectively exercise his short term right of rejection after 
the 30 days have passed. Even if I accept that there was a fault which made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality, Mr O could only reject the car within the first 30 days, and only if he 
expressed his wish to do so. But the CRA also says that Mr O would still be entitled to return 
the car after 30 days, if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, 
and if Mr O had exercised his right to repair which has failed to rectify the issue. Therefore, 
for me to conclude that Mr O can exercise his right to reject the car I would need to see that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, because the fault he complains about was likely to have 
been present or developing at the point of supply, and that VWFSs one attempt at a repair 
had failed. So, I will now consider if the car acquired was of satisfactory quality. 
From the manufacturers safety recall notice that Mr O has provided, I can see, insofar as its 
relevant here, that it says that moisture could enter the housing of the belt-driven starter-
alternator. As a result of this a chemical reaction, in unfavourable circumstances, could 
cause a short circuit in the component. And because of the resulting local overheating, the 
car subsequently catching fire cant be ruled out. The notice goes on to say that, due to a 
very small risk associated with this concern, individuals can continue to use the car and that 
there have been no confirmed cases at the time of writing in the UK. But it explains that as a 
precautionary measure the car should only be parked outside. It also says that if a smouldering smell while driving the car is noticed, one should contact the manufacturers 
roadside assistance on the given telephone number. 
So, considering this I thought about whether Mr Os car had the faulty recalled part. But I 
cant reasonably conclude that it is more likely than not that Mr Os car contained the 
defective part solely on the grounds that the manufacturer issued a recall notice for his 
particular model. This is because the manufacturers will sometimes issue a blanket recall 
when its been established that some cars may have an inherent manufacturing issue. This 
doesnt mean that every single car that is subject to the recall definitely has the defective 
part. 
And Ive not been presented with any evidence that would allow me to conclude that there 
was a fault with Mr Os car. Its possible that a fault may arise on the car in line with what the 
manufacturer has said, but a recall notice doesnt mean that there was a fault with the car. 
The fact that a fault may occur doesnt mean that Mr Os car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
So, while Mr O has my sympathy, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to allow him to 
exercise his right to reject the car. And Im not asking VWFS to waive any of the early 
termination charges which are payable as per the terms and conditions of his hire 
agreement.
I know that Mr O says that he was significantly inconvenienced by VWFS, because they 
failed to escalate or return promised calls when he was looking for a solution and was in the 
process of trying to return the car. I think this has caused him distress and inconvenience, 
but I think the £366.72 compensation already offered to him by VWFS fairly reflects the 
impact this had had on him. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend not to uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services have offered to pay Mr O £366.72 
compensation. I think this is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. If they have not 
already done so they should pay this directly to him.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 29 September 2021.    
VWFS replied accepting my provisional findings and had nothing further to add. 
Mr O replied disagreeing and provided further submissions. I will address these in my 
findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings. Once again, I want to acknowledge that 
Ive summarised the events of the complaint, but I want assure Mr O and VWFS that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this.
Mr O, in response to my provisional decision, says that the fundamental point is that the 
dealership and VWFS were not reasonable in helping him to find a solution. He says they 
wouldnt fix the car over the weekend and wouldnt provide him with a hire car, which he says he needed in order to be able to commute, as he was a key worker. He also says that 
they were not able to arrange a suitable appointment for him to bring the car into the 
dealership to assess the risk and to replace the recalled part. Mr O says that when he asked 
the dealership and VWFS when they would be able to provide a courtesy car, they couldnt 
even suggest a date. He says he was trying to find solutions and was unhappy that VWFS 
wouldnt speak to the dealership on his behalf. So, he says that he was stuck in a catch-22 
situation, where he didnt know the risk and could not get it assessed. And overall, he feels 
that he was more than reasonable in trying to find a solution.
Also, in a response to my provisional decision, Mr O mentioned certain legislation, among 
others the CRA, and talked about satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. He says that he 
expected the car to be of a reasonable quality, and he feels that he was entitled to a repair, 
which shouldve been done in a reasonable time frame. 
I agree that the CRA implied a term into Mr Os contract that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. And I agree that, if a business is required to repair the 
goods, they must do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer. But, like I said in my provisional decision, for me to conclude that Mr O can 
exercise his right to reject the car, I would need to see that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality or fit for purpose. And in considering this I need to think about whether there was a 
fault that was present or developing at the point of supply. Which means that, before I could 
even consider whether VWFS carried out, or attempted to carry out, the repair within a 
reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the Mr O, I would need to be 
satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. But I cant reasonably conclude that it is 
more likely than not that Mr Os car contained the defective part, solely on the grounds of an 
issued recall for his particular model by the manufacturer. Manufacturers do sometimes 
issue blanket recall notices when it has been established that some cars may have an 
inherent manufacturing issue. This doesnt mean that every single car that is subject to the 
recall has the defective part. 
It is important to note that Ive not been presented with any evidence that would allow me to 
conclude that there was a fault with Mr Os car. I understand that Mr O says that he tried 
hard to get the car looked at to ascertain whether his car had the defective part, but even if 
the part in question was replaced under the recall notice, this wouldnt automatically mean 
that it was a defective part. This is because a recall notice doesnt automatically mean that 
there was a fault with the car, and sometimes parts get replaced under a recall as a 
precautionary measure. So, the fact that a fault may subsequently occur due to a part that is 
listed under a recall notice doesnt automatically mean that Mr Os car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. I know that Mr O feels that VWFS was unreasonable and wouldnt help him to find a 
solution to have the car taken into the dealership for the recall part to be looked at. But I 
cant reasonably say that VWFS was required to help him with this, as I have not been 
provided with any evidence that would allow me to conclude that car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
So, while Mr O has my sympathy, I still dont think it would be fair or reasonable to allow him 
to exercise his right to reject the car. And Im still not asking VWFS to waive any of the early 
termination charges which are payable as per the terms and conditions of his hire 
agreement.
Mr O has also told our service that the amount of compensation paid was not reasonable 
and not enough. He says that he spent hours on the phone and was promised multiple calls 
that were not returned. Mr O feels that the compensation should be far higher than what 
VWFS has offered. As he feels that none of the stress, time taken and impact on him and his 
family has been considered. The other reason that he thinks that the compensation should be higher is because he says that he is now responsible for an early termination amount of 
around £3,576.
I recognise that Mr O suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience, as well as financial loss 
because he terminated his agreement early, but for the reasons set out above I dont think 
VWFS is liable for what has happened. Also, I accept that Mr O had to make numerous 
telephone calls, but I think the compensation offered by VWFS is fair and reasonable, and 
truly reflects the impact of the situation.
In view of the responses to my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different
conclusion to what I have reached in my provisional decision, as copied above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services have offered 
to pay Mr O £366.72 compensation. I think this is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If they have not already done so they should pay this directly to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman