DRN-3447296
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with delays they say Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (Mortgage 
Advice Bureau), their broker, caused when they re-mortgaged.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a mortgage with a fixed rate of interest that was due to expire on 
31 July 2021. In March 2021, they approached Mortgage Advice Bureau to arrange re-
mortgaging before their rate expired. They also held a help-to-buy loan that they wanted to 
pay off and add to the new mortgage.
The amount Mr and Mrs B needed to pay off their help-to-buy loan depended on the value of 
their property. In their initial meeting with the adviser, they estimated their property was 
worth £310,000, which meant they would need £62,000 to pay off the help-to-buy loan. A 
mortgage application was submitted to reflect this and the up to date balance on their 
existing mortgage. But £4,000 was deducted from the mortgage amount required as this was 
going to be taken from their savings. 
The lender then issued an offer in line with the sum requested. 
On 19 May 2021, a valuation was completed on Mr and Mrs Bs home, which confirmed the 
value was actually £290,000  £20,000 less than estimated. This meant the amount they 
needed to repay their help-to-buy loan reduced to £58,000. 
Discussions took place between the adviser and Mr and Mrs B and the adviser requested an 
amendment to the mortgage offer  reducing it by £4,000. This is the difference between the 
original sum needed to repay the help-to-buy loan and the new sum required based on a 
lower than anticipated valuation. Coincidently, this is the same sum Mr and Mrs B had 
agreed to use from their savings. But, as the mortgage offer was reduced  they would still 
need to use this amount of their savings. 
On 30 July 2021, the lender issued a new offer to reflect the above changes. But Mr and 
Mrs Bs solicitor informed Mr and Mrs B the figures didnt add up and they appeared to be 
around £3,000 short of the funds required. Mr and Mrs B passed this information on to the 
adviser and it was established that this was because they were no longer factoring in 
contributing any savings. It transpired that Mr and Mrs B no longer held the savings they had 
at the time of the initial meeting. As a result, the adviser made another amendment to the 
mortgage amount required from the lender  factoring in payments made to their mortgage 
since the initial meeting, they now required an additional £2,250. 
As the amount Mr and Mrs B required had increased, the lender reassessed their application 
and a new offer was provided on 10 August 2021. 
Mr and Mrs Bs fixed rate had already expired at this point, which means they were paying 
interest on a higher, standard variable rate. The re-mortgage eventually completed on 
18 August 2021, which was the day before the valuation would expire. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to Mortgage Advice Bureau that they made it clear they wanted to 
avoid using their savings unless absolutely necessary and so when they learned the 
valuation of their property was lower than expected, and the sum they needed to repay their 
help-to-buy loan was less, they thought the adviser had factored this in and that their savings 
were no longer required.
Mortgage Advice Bureau looked into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns, but they said Mr and Mrs B 
were given the option to stay with the mortgage offer they had, which would mean their 
savings werent required, or, to reduce the amount of their new mortgage. Mortgage Advice 
Bureau say Mr and Mrs B decided to reduce the mortgage and so it cant be held 
accountable for the additional delays caused when they no longer had the funds to make up 
the difference.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns, but they didnt think Mortgage Advice 
Bureau had done anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs B disagreed, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs B say their savings shouldnt have been 
factored into the second mortgage offer given the reduction in the sum needed. They say 
that having to amend the offer for a third time caused unnecessary delays, which resulted in 
them paying additional interest of £115 on their original mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B think the adviser should have recommended they no longer use their savings 
and proceed with the offer they already had. Mr and Mrs B want Mortgage Advice Bureau to 
compensate them for this.
Ive reviewed the notes the adviser made as well as email exchanges from the initial 
application up to the final mortgage offer. It does appear from these that Mr and Mrs B said 
they could use some of their savings if they needed to. I note that they informed the adviser 
they wanted to keep as much of their savings as possible. But based on the first mortgage 
offer  its clear that they agreed to contribute £4,000 of their savings at this time. 
When the valuation report was issued and it transpired Mr and Mrs Bs help-to-buy loan 
would reduce from what was expected, the advisers notes show this was discussed with 
Mr B. And that he ultimately decided to reduce the re-mortgage amount requested. Its not 
clear precisely what was said during the call that took place, but the adviser wouldnt have 
given Mr and Mrs B an option if it werent for the savings. 
I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B may have forgotten about the savings that had 
already been factored in. They could have proceeded with the offer they already had, but 
instead agreed to reduce the amount requested.While I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say they would have expected the adviser to discuss the 
savings with them again given they originally said they wanted to keep as much as possible. 
Given the timescales involved, its also reasonable for the adviser to have expected Mr and 
Mrs B to remember they were going to contribute £4,000 of their savings. Particularly 
because the adviser wouldnt have given them option to revise the mortgage offer if it 
werent for the savings. 
So, its clear there has been some confusion, but I think Mr and Mrs B should have been 
aware they would still need to use some of their savings if they reduced the amount of the 
mortgage offer. The adviser left it up to Mr and Mrs B to decide how they wanted to progress 
following the valuation report, and they chose to reduce their mortgage offer. 
The adviser answered all of the queries put to him and from the correspondence Ive seen, 
he acted promptly on all of the requests Mr and Mrs B made. So, while I empathize with 
Mr and Mrs B, I dont think Mortgage Advice Bureau is responsible for any delays. That 
means I dont think it needs to compensate them for any additional interest they incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman