DRN-2826767
The complaint
Mrs G complaints that Brents of Brentwood Ltd (and its appointed representative) unfairly 
kept fees for arranging a structural defects policy, that wasnt put into place.
  
What happened
Mrs G is unhappy about the delays during the process of arranging an Advantage structural 
defects policy, for a self-build property. The policy was being arranged by Brents appointed 
representative, AHCI Limited. The policy is underwritten by a different business, which Ill 
refer to as the insurer.
AHCI is not itself authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to carry on any regulated 
activities. However, Brents is authorised, and as AHCIs principle, its responsible for this 
complaint.
Mrs G says due to the delays, she had to take out an alternative policy. She says she had to 
have a policy in place by 17 July 2019, to avoid a community infrastructure levy. Mrs G was 
unhappy about the premium she had paid for the Advantage policy, the fees she had paid 
to AHCI, and some other costs she had incurred.
When responding to the complaint, AHCI noted the following:
- The property was completed in December 2017.
- Mrs G applied for a policy in March 2019.
- An initial certificate of insurance was issued in April 2019.
- A surveyor undertook a final inspection, which identified points of concern.
- Those points required action, before the final certificate of insurance could be issued.
AHCI noted the information it requested, following its final inspection, was required to assess 
if the property represented a reasonable risk to the insurer. AHCI said before it had received 
all the necessary information to sign-off the final certificate of insurance, Mrs G decided she 
no longer wanted to proceed.
AHCI said a refund wasnt due, as the policy had already incepted as per the initial certificate 
of insurance. It pointed towards the policy terms which noted that if the policy is cancelled 
outside of 14 days, no refund of premium would be paid.
Mrs G brought her complaint to our service. Brents subsequently explained that the policy 
premium had been incorrectly retained. It said, in the circumstances, the premium should 
have been refunded.
In total, Mrs G paid £1,184.40 for the policy premium. This amount was refunded. However, 
Mrs G had also paid AHCI a further £2,035.60. Mrs G explained she wanted all of AHCIs 
fees refunded, and to be reimbursed a further £135 for a Radon, environmental, and coal 
mining desktop survey she was asked to complete.
Brents explained to our service that it didnt consider a dispute about the £2,035.60 to be 
within our jurisdiction. Brents said the fees related to building survey services, which isnt 
a financial service (i.e. a regulated activity).
One of our investigators thought all of the complaint was within our jurisdiction. Brents noted 
it disagreed, but it said it would await our investigators findings on the merits of the 
complaint.
Our investigator went on to uphold the complaint. He recommended all fees and costs be 
reimbursed. Because Brents didnt respond, the complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, for a final decision.
Ive already been in contact with Brents about our jurisdiction. I explained why, based on the 
limited information that Brents had provided, I considered the complaint to be one I could 
consider.
Brents has confirmed the £2,035.60 fees were for:
- Scheme membership: £420
- Warranty inspection fee: £180
- Pre-underwriting, technical underwriting and administration fees; file inception and 
compliance administration fees, plus AHCI margin: £1,435.60
Essentially, I said the provision of those services was either part and parcel of the regulated 
activity, or was at the very least, ancillary to them. Mrs G approached AHCI for a structural 
defects policy. She didnt approach AHCI to have surveys, risk assessing, site inspections 
and underwriting performed apart from this purpose. 
Mrs G has confirmed that the cost she incurred for the alternative policy was £3,698. She 
says she was unable to use any of the surveys or searches that she paid for during the 
Advantage policy application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has provided our service with various email chains between her and her relationship 
manager at AHCI, for the period between 15 April and 10 July 2019. These email chains 
also include the exchanges between the relationship manager and members of AHCIs 
technical team.
On 15 April, AHCI sent Mrs G a list of actions required following the inspection, and it asked 
for evidence the remedial works had been carried out. Mrs G says she carried out the works 
during May and sent AHCI evidence the required works had been completed on 2 June.
On 5 June, AHCI told Mrs G it also needed a site investigation report, planning approval, and 
building control report. Mrs G provided details of the planning approval and building control 
inspections, but she noted a site investigation report wasnt available. On 1 July, AHCI told 
Mrs G that she would need a desktop survey instead. Mrs G arranged and paid for the 
desktop survey the following day.On 8 July, AHCI asked Mrs G for further information about various items. Mrs G responded, 
and on 9 July, after some toing and throwing, AHCI clarified the only item now outstanding 
was the structural engineer design for the foundations. AHCI noted this information wasnt 
within the structural drawings it had been given, and it only had poor photos of the plans. 
AHCI advised that once it had the foundation details, and the plans, the cover could be 
confirmed. On 10 July, the relationship manager sent Mrs G an email noting that, as 
discussed, she could either provide the information required or request a refund.
Like our investigator, I dont find anything wrong with AHCI asking for the information it did, 
to satisfy itself of the risks, before arranging cover. Simply because another provider was 
willing to arrange cover within a matter of days, without making those requests, doesnt 
mean AHCI was being unreasonably cautious. 
Nonetheless, its not unreasonable, in my view, for Mrs G to expect AHCI to be clear when 
setting out the information it needs and to be efficient when doing so. Its evident that this 
didnt always happen.
The quotation, dated 2 April, lists the documentation that would be needed from Mrs G. So, 
Im not persuaded AHCI was requesting new information at any point. However, on 5 June, 
AHCI told Mrs G what documents were outstanding, and then it waited until 8 July to clarify 
there was other information missing, or unclear information, in relation to the structural 
drawings and plans. 
Whilst Im mindful that reviewing the submitted documentation would likely take AHCI some 
time, on balance, I consider it likely it could have informed Mrs G about the missing or 
unclear information on 5 June (or at least before 8 July). Brents hasnt presented any 
arguments or information which persuades me otherwise.
Ive also seen that AHCI used an incorrect email address which delayed matters by over two 
weeks; it asked for information on a few occasions that had already been provided by Mrs G; 
and it took AHCI nearly a month to tell Mrs G a desktop survey would be needed after she 
confirmed a site investigation report wasnt available. 
I havent seen AHCI was put on notice that Mrs G was working to a deadline, and its unclear 
why the final information couldnt be provided within the week that was left. However, given 
what Ive set out above, I can understand why she had lost confidence, and why she was 
more reassured by the other provider she spoke to in respect of meeting the deadline.
Ultimately, Mrs G started the process three and half months ahead of the deadline, so I dont 
consider her to have had unreasonable expectations about the cover being in place in time, 
and overall, Im persuaded there were avoidable delays caused by AHCI.
Furthermore, whilst I dont know what was discussed on 10 July between the relationship 
manager and Mrs G, his follow up email doesnt offer any reassurances about the policy 
being put in place in time should she provide the final information. Theres also no 
suggestion in his email a refund wouldnt be forthcoming, if she chose this option.
Mrs G has effectively been charged £2,035.60 for arranging a policy, that wasnt arranged. 
Because, overall, Im persuaded AHCIs handling of the matter led Mrs G to take out an 
alternative policy, it follows that AHCIs fees should be reimbursed. 
Brents will also need to pay Mrs G 8% simple interest per annum on the £2,035.60, from the 
11 July 2019 (i.e. when the policy was cancelled) to the date of settlement.In terms of the desktop survey Mrs G paid £135 for, I make no award for this. I accept the 
other provider didnt require the results, but as I understand it, this is information that a 
developer would usually be able to provide. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Brents of Brentwood Ltd should:
- reimburse Mrs G £2,035.60 for the fees charged by AHCI Limited (in addition to the 
£1,184.40 policy premiums already refunded); and
- add 8% simple interest1 per annum on the £2,035.60 settlement, from 11 April 2019 
to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman
1If Brents of Brentwood Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. If requested, Brents should also 
provide Mrs G with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.