DRN-3378132
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has dealt with a problem 
she claimed for under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ill set out a brief summary of the main points relevant to this dispute.
In early 2020, Ms O noticed damp in her downstairs bathroom. She got in touch with 
Admiral to make a claim and also contacted plumbers for advice.
A plumber suggested the problem was caused by condensation and recommended 
replacing the bathroom window. Ms O did that and, thinking that would resolve the 
problem, discontinued the claim with Admiral. I understand Admiral declined the 
claim around the same time, on the basis the damage was caused by sealant failure.
Later in 2020, Ms O noticed the problem was continuing. She discovered water 
overflowing from the gully next to the bathroom and kitchen. And after removing the 
bath panel, she found a leak behind it. So she got back in touch with Admiral.
Admiral inspected the gully and pipework, found it needing replacing, and did so. Ms 
O thought the gully may have leaked and caused damage to her house and garden.
Admiral carried out an inspection of the house. It didnt think any of the damage was 
covered by the policy. Nor did it think there was any damage to the garden.
Ms O complained about the outcome of the claim and the way it had been handled. 
Admiral maintained the claim should be declined. It said it had handled most aspects 
of the claim well but accepted there had been some delays and poor communication. 
It offered £75 compensation for this. Ms O referred her complaint to this service.
In 2021, Admiral arranged for cracking to be inspected. It concluded there was no 
evidence of a subsidence problem.
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted fairly. Ms O disagreed, so her complaint 
has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of different points to this complaint, so Ill consider each separately.
Drainage
Admiral appointed a drainage contractor in October 2020. They carried out a survey and 
found the kitchen/bathroom outside gully was blocked. They replaced the gully and 
connecting pipework. They also noted faults further away from the house, which they said 
was the responsibility of the local water authority. They advised Ms O to contact that 
authority.
Im satisfied the drainage problem has been put right and this aspect of the problem has 
been resolved fairly by Admiral.
Garden
I understand Ms O considers the drain problem caused damage to her garden. It isnt in 
doubt that the gully was blocked and the nearby pipework damaged. So its possible water 
had escaped into the garden.
However, that doesnt necessarily mean the water caused damage in the garden. None was 
noted by the drainage contractor in its report. And when Ms O later questioned this, they 
maintained there was no evidence of damage before or after it carried out the work, caused 
by leaking water or anything else.
Its not clear what damage Ms O thinks has been caused to the garden by the drain problem. 
The garden is paved around the rear of the house and the gully. Ive seen photos which 
dont highlight any clear damage. I havent seen any other evidence to show the paving has 
been damaged. And even if water had been leaking from the gully prior to the repair, I think 
its unlikely this would have damaged outside paving which is designed to resist rainwater.
So overall I think Admiral acted fairly when it declined to take any further action in the 
garden.
Bathroom and kitchen
Ms O was concerned that the drain problem may have caused water to come into the house. 
The gully is directly next to the kitchen and bathroom, so I can understand that concern.
When Admiral inspected the house, it identified a number of causes contributing to the 
bathroom and kitchen damage. But it didnt think the drain problem was one of them. Much 
of the damage noted internally is at a higher level than the gully. And the damage at a low 
level has been linked to a leak, which Ill come to below.
Ms O has provided copies of estimates she had for work to the bathroom, but neither gives 
an opinion about the cause of the damage. I havent seen any plumbers or other experts link 
the drain problem to the internal damage. 
Based on the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded the internal damage has been 
caused by the drain problem.
I note Ms O asked Admiral to test the wet areas internally to see whether it could be traced 
back to the drain. Whilst it may have been preferable to do this testing to rule out the 
possibility the drain was contributing to the internal damage, I dont think Admiral was 
obliged to do this. Theres no evidence to suggest the drain may be causing damage 
internally, so I think Admirals investigation into this point was reasonable.When Admiral inspected the bathroom and kitchen, it noted damage caused in a number of 
ways. It found a leak under the bath and a number of other issues that are broadly all 
maintenance related.
The policy covers damage by water escaping from pipes  but not any damage which 
happens gradually.
Admiral accepts a pipe underneath the bath has leaked and caused damage. It says the leak 
was longstanding and had been going on for a prolonged period of time. Its difficult to make 
out the damage under the bath clearly from the photos provided, but on balance I think its 
more likely the leak was gradual than sudden. Thats because no particular reason for its 
sudden failure has been suggested.
Taking the policy at its word, that means the damage caused by the leak isnt covered. But 
this service has a longstanding approach to gradual damage policy terms. In summary, we 
usually only consider it fair for an insurer to rely on such a term where the consumer ought 
reasonably to have been aware of the gradual damage.
Ive looked at the photos and thought about what Admiral has said. Whilst there may be 
evidence of other problems plainly visible, such as the shower screen, ceiling and window, 
Im not persuaded theres similar evidence of the leak under the bath. With the panel 
removed, damage is there to see, but with the panel in place, Im not satisfied Ms O ought to 
have been aware of the leak.
Because of this, I dont think it would be fair for Admiral to decline to deal with the damage 
caused by the leak under the bath. To put that right, it should pay the cost of repairing any 
damage caused by the leak  in the bathroom or the kitchen.
Im satisfied the other damage in the bathroom and kitchen was fairly declined though. No 
other recent leaks or other causes of damage insured by the policy have been identified in 
these areas by Admiral. And I havent seen any other expert opinions to the contrary.
External damage
Admiral considered cracking and related problems in the external fabric of the house. It 
didnt think any of it was covered by the policy when it inspected in 2020. Nor when it 
inspected again in 2021.
Ive considered the reports and photos provided and Im satisfied Admiral has reached a fair 
position on this point. The damage appears to be wear and tear and general deterioration, 
rather than something covered by the policy, such as subsidence or storm damage.
I havent seen any other expert opinions to the contrary.Number of claims and impact on premium
Ms O has questioned how many claims Admiral has recorded on her insurance record as a 
result of problems shes reported  and whether this has caused her premium to increase. 
Admiral has confirmed its logged five claims.
One is for the drain problem and another is for the water leak in the bathroom. Im satisfied 
its reasonable to record two separate claims. Theres no evidence to show one problem was 
caused by or linked to the other, so I think its fair to see them as two separate events, with 
different causes.
Admiral has logged two storm claims in October 2020 and a subsidence claim in May 2021. 
All seem to relate to the external damage I noted above, which amounts to cracking and 
other defects in the fabric of the house. Its not clear to me that there are three separate 
events here. But I dont think these problems are linked to the drainage or the bathroom 
leak. So I think it would be fair to record one claim only for the external problems.
To put this right, Admiral should remove the latter two claims from any internal and external 
databases. It should also recalculate the premium it charged at the last renewal to take into 
account the reduced amount of claims on the policy at that time and refund any difference to 
Ms O.
Claim handling
Admiral has already accepted it caused some avoidable delays and communicated poorly at 
times. It offered £75 compensation. Ive looked at the timeline of events and thought about 
how Admiral has handled the claim. Having done so, Im not persuaded £75 goes far enough 
to put things right.
I dont think there have been significant delays. The drain repair was carried out promptly. 
And the other damage was inspected soon after. Most of it was reasonably declined soon 
after. But the bath leak was unfairly declined and thats caused avoidable delays. And when 
Ms O questioned how the claim was progressing, she didnt always get clear and prompt 
responses. I think this caused her avoidable distress and inconvenience.
Overall I think a total of £250 would be reasonable compensation in the circumstances. If 
Admiral has already paid the £75 it previously offered, it can deduct that from the total and 
pay the remaining £175 only.
Next steps
I understand Ms O has had a contractor carry out work to the bathroom. I havent seen an 
invoice for the work, so I dont know what has been done. The work may have been limited 
to repairing the damage caused by the leak or it may have dealt with other problems too.
I intend to require Admiral to pay for the cost of work reasonably required to put right the 
damage caused by the leak under the bath. To do that, Ms O should provide Admiral with 
her invoice and a breakdown of the work done. It can then estimate how much of that work 
was a result of the leak and pay the corresponding amount to Ms O.
I also intend to require Admiral to remove the latter two claims and recalculate the premium. 
Admiral should let Ms O know when its removed the claims and recalculated the premium 
and let her know what impact, if any, this has had on her premium. If it shows a difference, 
that should be refunded to Ms O.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral didnt reply to my provisional decision.
Ms O replied and provided further information. She clarified that her bathroom had been 
completely replaced and provided photos to show it as it is now. She also provided receipts 
to show some of the costs involved.
I remain satisfied that Admiral should pay for the cost of work reasonably required to put 
right the damage caused by the leak under the bath. As I set out in my provisional decision, 
its likely Admiral will ask Ms O to provide receipts and a breakdown of the work involved so 
it can estimate how much of the work done was a result of the leak. Alternatively, it may 
make an offer towards the overall cost in the interest of reaching a prompt and pragmatic 
resolution to this dispute.
Ms O said the water pressure from the broken drain lifted the paving in the area. And the 
leaking water would have polluted the garden. This is the damage she thought the drain 
problem had caused to her garden.
I recognise the paving could have lifted and the water could have leaked into the ground. But 
I havent seen anything to show this is likely what happened  or that it amounts to damage 
in any case. For example, if the paving had been lifted and then returned to its prior position, 
Im not persuaded that means it was damaged. If its been cracked or damaged in other 
ways as a result of the drain problem, Ms O is entitled to let Admiral know that and provide 
supporting evidence, such as a contractors report on the cause of damage and the cost of 
putting it right. Similar for the possibility of the leak into the garden. As it stands, I havent 
seen anything like this, so I wont be asking Admiral to take any further steps on this point.
Ms O also questioned why Admiral had asked her to report to the local water authority the 
faults found on its pipework. As these faults were far from Ms Os property, Admiral didnt 
think they were causing a problem to Ms Os property. Ms O seems to agree, and I havent 
seen any expert view to contradict that. So I dont think Admiral had any obligation to take 
the matter forward for her. But as it had found the faults, I think it was reasonable for Admiral 
to share this information with Ms O and let her know that she could report it to the local water 
authority if she wished. That option remains open to her.  
Neither party has responded to the other aspects of my provisional decision, so I see no 
reason to comment on them further or to change them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
pay for the cost of work reasonably required to put right the damage caused by the 
leak under the bath
remove the latter two claims from any internal and external databases
recalculate the premium charged at the last renewal to take into account the reduced 
amount of claims on the policy at that time and refund any difference to Ms O
pay a total of £250 compensationUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman