DRN-4297209
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Mrs B holds a bank account with S. She took out a £20,000 loan with S in August 2022, for 
the stated purpose of home improvements. Mrs B says she was going to get some quotes 
for works and had set up an account with Revolut to handle the works/expenses.
According to the records Ive seen, Mrs B transferred £2,000 from S to Revolut on 
10 August 2022. Shortly after, this amount was paid to B, a cryptocurrency merchant who 
Mrs B has confirmed she had an existing account with. 
It appears Mrs B also initiated a payment of £18,000 from S to Revolut on 10 August 2022. 
This was initially paused by S, who spoke to Mrs B about it  having already questioned her 
about the earlier payment. The £18,000 payment shows as being credited to Mrs Bs Revolut 
account on the evening of 11 August 2022.
On 12 August 2022, Mrs B says she received a call from someone claiming to be from 
Revolut. They told her she needed to move her funds to her B account because her Revolut 
account had been hacked. 
Shortly after the £18,000 were moved, Mrs B checked her B account and saw the funds 
were no longer there. She reported to Revolut that she had been scammed and had lost 
£20,000. It didnt agree to refund her. She subsequently complained  and as Revolut 
maintained its stance, she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. They highlighted some 
apparent discrepancies between what Mrs B had told us, and Revolut, which didnt seem to 
match the account activity. Even if Revolut should have done more, they werent satisfied it 
could be held liable for any loss incurred.
Mrs B has appealed. She says she tried to get statements for her B account, which the 
investigator had asked for, but hadnt been able to. She also said she had moved the £2,000 
earlier but that the £18,000 had been moved due to the scam call  and then the full £20,000 
had been taken from her B account. She says if Revolut had taken the steps S had to check 
the payments, the scam would have been identified and prevented. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. I have been in touch with both sides to 
check my understanding of what unfolded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Revolut is expected to act on 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So the starting position is that Mrs B is 
liable for payments she authorises. But Revolut would generally be liable for unauthorised 
payments taken from her account. 
Mrs B has, at points, suggested she didnt make the payments. But when she first reported 
the scam to Revolut, she told it she had transferred the money to B. And when our 
investigator told Mrs B we could get audit information to check how the payments were 
made, she confirmed she made them. And as above, she has since told us she made the 
£2,000 payment.
Overall, while I appreciate Mrs B does seem to have been tricked by a scammer, it also 
seems she made the payments  or at least understood and agreed for the funds to be 
moved to B. And so I think the payments were authorised.
Even with authorised payments, there are some circumstances where we might expect 
Revolut  as a regulated electronic money institute (EMI) who has publicly committed to 
taking measures to help protect customers from fraud and scams  to identify, and respond 
to, a fraud risk. That might be appropriate if a payment appears significantly out of character 
with the usual operation of the account. 
However, even if I felt that Revolut had failed to identify a fraud risk when it should have 
done, I would need to go on to consider whether its likely that appropriate intervention in 
response to that risk would have prevented any fraudulent loss incurred. 
Here, as this was a new account, Revolut didnt have knowledge of Mrs Bs usual account 
activity and so didnt know what was normal for her. In those circumstances, I dont think the 
£2,000 payment should have been identified as presenting an obvious fraud risk. I 
appreciate the £18,000 payment arguably looked more concerning, given its value. 
Regardless, I'm not persuaded Revolut would likely have prevented any loss stemming from 
these transactions if it had questioned Mrs B about the reasons for them.
Ive carefully weighed up and compared what our service, and Revolut, have been told about 
this scam over time. And I dont think I can safely rely on Mrs Bs testimony that questioning 
and a warning from Revolut would have prevented her reported loss. That is because there 
are some discrepancies in her account of how the scam unfolded. 
For example: when Mrs B first reported the scam to Revolut, she was asked about how it 
happened. She said she received one call on 12 August 2022, saying her account had been 
compromised. But, as mentioned above, the £2,000 payment had actually been made two 
days before.
When our investigator asked Mrs B who made the payments, she initially said all she had 
done was move the funds from S to Revolut. It was only after the investigator explained the 
information Revolut held about how the payments to B were processed that Mrs B said she 
had made them herself, but on the scammers instructions. 
The investigator then asked how many payments Mrs B had made on the scammers 
instructions. She confirmed she had made two payments, for £2,000 and £18,000. When 
asked why she thought she had to make two payments, she said she was told it was to 
make sure the payments were received by B. But then later in the call, Mrs B disputed moving the £2,000 payment to B. She said the two 
payments she made were the payments into the Revolut account. But that doesnt fit with 
her saying she was made the two payments to ensure the funds were received by B. And it 
contradicts what she has told us, and Revolut, at other points.
These different explanations raise further questions. Most recently, Mrs B says she was in 
contact with the scammer prior to the call on 12 August 2022, and that he was involved with 
the £2,000 payment. That contradicts what she told Revolut when reporting the scam  
which I would normally place most weight on, as her recollections would have been clearest 
at that point. But then if, as initially reported, there was just one scam call on 12 August 
2022, that doesnt fully account for how these funds were lost. 
The timings here are important. When Mrs B transferred the funds from S to Revolut, S 
questioned her about each payment  and she said they were for home improvements. If 
true, its unclear to me why Mrs B then transferred the £2,000 on to her cryptocurrency 
account with B, as she has now told me she did. 
S also issued warnings relevant to the type of scam Mrs B reports falling victim to, which she 
acknowledged at the time. If she was in contact with the scammer then, or shortly after, I 
question what else Revolut should have said to her which would have persuaded her it was, 
in fact, a scam. 
This also suggests Mrs B may not have been honest with S about the reason for the 
payments. As she says she was in contact with the scammer when making the £2,000 
payment. And that is the same day she made the transfers from S to Revolut, which she told 
S were for home improvements.
We know it is common in these types of scams for victims to be told not to tell their account 
provider what they are doing. For example they may be told staff are under suspicion, so it's 
not safe to tell them. If that happened here, and Mrs B would therefore have given a cover 
story if questioned by Revolut about the payments, Im not confident it would have been able 
to work out, and successfully warn Mrs B, she was falling victim to a scam. 
Relevant to this is the difference between what Mrs B told Revolut when first reporting the 
scam, and what she has since told us. As Ive said above, Im not persuaded a one-off scam 
call on 12 August 2022 accounts for what happened here. But if that isnt what happened, 
then it appears Mrs B omitted details of the scam when reporting it to Revolut on the day. 
Which I think is a further indication she may not have been forthcoming if questioned about 
the £18,000 payment earlier that same day.
The investigator asked Mrs B for statements showing the money being paid into, and moved 
on from, her B account. They sent instructions for how she could access them. Mrs B says 
she couldnt work out how to do this. But I dont think this was an unreasonable request, as 
she has confirmed she does genuinely hold the account
The onus lies with Mrs B to substantiate the loss she is alleging is attributable to failings by 
Revolut. Without that, Im not persuaded its fair to make the award she is seeking. Knowing 
how the B account was used at the time is relevant to establishing how the scam unfolded. 
And that in turn is relevant to my decision about whether Revolut ought to have been able to 
uncover the scam, and whether it should therefore be held liable for the loss.I also agree with the investigator that Revolut didnt miss an opportunity to recover the loss 
when Mrs B reported the scam. She made card payments to her B account, and it seems the 
scammers were somehow able to access the funds from there. While card payments are 
covered by the chargeback scheme, that only gives recourse to successful claims in certain 
circumstances, subject to the rules set by the card scheme provider. 
Here, B provided the expected service as it acted on Mrs Bs payment instructions and 
loaded the funds to her wallet as requested. There wouldnt be grounds for a successful 
chargeback claim in those circumstances. There must have been a further action, by the 
scammer rather than B, which caused the loss. 
I know Mrs B will be disappointed by this outcome. I would say that, on balance, I do believe 
she has fallen victim to a scam. But that alone doesnt mean Revolut is liable for her loss. In 
the circumstances, her explanation of how the scam unfolded doesnt lead me to think its 
likely Revolut ought to have been able to prevent the loss reported. So I dont consider it fair 
to direct Revolut to reimburse her for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman