DRN-3505185
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he says he lost as a result of a 
scam 
What happened
Mr S found a laptop he wished to purchase listed on a popular online marketplace. He and 
the seller exchanged messages. After requesting and receiving a picture of the unopened 
laptop box showing the serial number, Mr S agreed to meet at a location chosen by the 
seller.
The location was revealed to be a car park where Mr S was met by someone who, as 
promised, had the laptop. After Mr S inspected it and checked the serial number, he made a 
faster payment of £680 to whom he believed was the seller.
After the payment was made, Mr S says the seller asked to hotspot his phone signal (an 
action he now believes was an attempt to distract him). Two other individuals then 
approached and attempted to steal the laptop. Fearing they were armed with a knife, Mr S 
relinquished the laptop and fled. He says that the seller and the two other individuals spoke 
to each other in a way that suggested they were acquainted, and he believes the robbery 
was planned. 
Mr S reported the matter within minutes to both the police and Monzo. 
Monzo arent signatories to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code) but they have agreed to adhere to its principles. The CRM Code 
requires a firm to reimburse a customer who has fallen victim to an authorised push payment 
scam (APP scam) in all but a limited number of circumstances. In this case, Monzo said 
that Mr S wasnt the victim of an APP scam, but rather involved in a civil dispute, so the 
CRM Code doesnt apply.
One of our investigators upheld Mr S complaint. They didnt agree that the matter was a civil 
dispute. Instead they were persuaded that the robbery was planned by, or with, the seller. 
They also didnt think that any of the exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code 
applied. So, they recommended Mr S be refunded in full.
Monzo didnt agree. In summary it said:
- There isnt enough evidence to support the finding that the sale and robbery were 
linked and some details of Mr S account of events werent mentioned when the 
matter was first reported
- The seller was likely legitimate and may also have been a victim 
- Mr S was satisfied with the goods he received. Once a transaction is complete the 
owner is liable for what happens to those goods
- There was nothing concerning about the location of the sale and, as a public space, it 
was in line with the online marketplaces guidelines on where sales should take place
- In any case, the warnings it provided were, in fact, effective and it would be 
impossible to provide a specific warning about this very unusual set of circumstances
- Though it maintains the CRM Code doesnt apply, even if it did, it would have 
concerns that the price Mr S was offered was too good to be true
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo largely doesnt seem to dispute Mr S version of events. And, neither do I. Hes 
provided persuasive evidence of what happened  including his interactions with the seller 
and his contact with the police.
Monzo does, however, question whether the robbery was linked to the sale, or just an 
unfortunate coincidence. It also questions why Mr S didnt mention that the seller asked him 
to provide a hotspot when he first reported the matter.
While I accept there might not be proof that the sale and robbery were linked, I only need to 
make a finding based on the balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not to be the 
case. 
Mr S would have to be extremely unfortunate to have been the victim of a random robbery 
so soon after receiving the laptop. Monzo have suggested that it is an assumption to reach 
this conclusion, but not only are incidents of this type rare across the entire country, statistics 
available online show that the particular postcode has a lower crime rate than the national 
average. But thats not the only thing that persuades me that the robbery wasnt a 
coincidence.
The location appears to be a residential area with several entries and exits. Its likely to be a 
quiet location with few people around. This, I think, lessens the possibility that the sale was 
happened upon by strangers. It also could make it quite an attractive location for a robbery. 
Most persuasively though, the aspect of the sale that Monzo itself has suggested was 
concerning  the very low price  indicates that the seller had no actual intention of 
relinquishing the laptop.
I also dont think Mr S story has changed in any substantive way. I note that the account he 
originally gave to Monzo came very soon after the incident itself, when Mr S was frantically 
reporting the matter. I cant see that he was asked in any detail about the events (then or 
later), so I dont find it surprising that more details have subsequently emerged.
Id also note that, despite suggesting that the seller might have been an innocent party or 
even a victim of the scam too, Monzo did report the matter to the recipients bank and were informed that no funds remained. There is no suggestion that the receiving bank investigated 
its customer and concluded they were the innocent victim. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied that the sale and robbery were linked. 
Monzo dont think such a scenario is covered by the CRM Code, but I disagree. The test (so 
far as is relevant here) under DS(1)(2)(ii) is whether:
The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
As Im satisfied the robbery was planned, it follows that the transfer of funds was part of that 
plan and the purpose of the transfer was not legitimate, as the intention was always to 
recover the laptop.
So, Im satisfied this matter should be considered under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
Monzo appear to argue that it did provide an Effective Warning (an exception to 
reimbursement under the Code) but also that its warning couldnt be any more specific 
because of the uniqueness of the circumstances. It hasnt commented in any detail on 
whether Mr S lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment (another exception 
to reimbursement under the Code), though it has said that the low price should have been 
concerning.
For the sake of completeness, I think Mr S did have a reasonable basis of belief that the 
recipient of his payment was legitimate. Though he clearly had some concerns about both 
the price and the location of the sale, crucially he didnt make the payment until hed seen 
the goods. At that point it was entirely reasonable for him to believe that the transaction was 
genuine. What came next could not have been foreseen.
 
In relation to warnings, the fact Monzo couldnt have given a more specific warning because 
of the unusual circumstances, is unfortunate for it, but not particularly relevant here. Im only 
considering whether Mr S ignored an Effective Warning.
Monzo have provided a number of warnings as part of their submissions  both those it 
displays on what it considers to be relatively low risk payments and those for higher risk 
payments. But, it appears that Mr S was only presented with the lower risk payment warning. 
The only relevant part of that warning instructs its customer to Stop if (among other less 
relevant circumstances) the offer sounds too good to be true. I cant agree that such a 
warning is effective  its not specific to Mr S circumstances (and covers off several different 
types of scam) and doesnt do anything to bring alive what a scam involving the sale of 
goods might look like.
In any case, it would be difficult to see how a warning would be effective in Mr S 
circumstances (even if he was, in fact, presented with the higher risk warning). While the 
price Mr S paid for the laptop was lower than what he might otherwise have expected to pay, 
when he made the payment hed seen the goods in person and any concerns about the 
price or circumstances of the sale would likely have been dispelled. As Monzo has pointed 
out, it would be very difficult for a warning to be effective in such an unusual set of 
circumstances. So, I dont agree that Mr S ignored an Effective Warning under the CRM 
Code.
Im satisfied that the CRM Code applies here and, as no exception to reimbursement can be 
demonstrated, Mr S should be reimbursed under its provisions. Its not entirely clear what  
Mr S would have done with the money had it not been for the scam but it appears he has been deprived of the funds and therefore I think interest should be paid at 8% simple per 
annum from the date Monzo declined Mr S claim to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd and instruct it to pay Mr S:
- The amount lost - £680, less any money recovered or returned
- 8% simple interest on that amount from the date Monzo rejected Mr S claim under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman