DRN-2770320
The complaint
Mr D, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that he was mis-
sold a Maximum Investment Plan (MIP) by Zurich Assurance Ltd.
What happened
In 2000 Mr D was advised to invest £50 per month into the MIP, a ten-year qualifying 
endowment policy with a sum assured of £4,500. Mr D paid into the MIP until 2007, when he 
surrendered it for £4,210.24, having invested a total of £3,850.
In 2020 the CMC complained to Zurich about the sale of the plan, saying there was no 
record of Mr Ds attitude to risk being discussed and he wasnt interested in life cover. They 
were also concerned about the charges applicable in the plan, saying these meant it would 
have had a much lower potential growth rate, than the Bank of England base rate of interest 
at the time.
 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint and in short, they said that Mr D had been given 
information which explained how the MIP worked. The life cover included was minimal, just 
0.5% of the monthly amount invested. They said if Mr D didnt agree with or understand the 
information, then he didnt have to accept the recommendation. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and upheld it. She said that Mr D 
was only 15 at the time of the sale, and so shouldnt have been tied into a ten-year plan, with 
surrender penalties. She felt the fund choice  the Managed Fund  was too risky for Mr Ds 
attitude and capacity for risk, and she agreed with the CMCs comments around the charges. 
The investigator recommended that Zurich should calculate redress based on the average 
rates of return available from fixed rate bonds. 
Zurich disagreed, explaining that the investment returned the amount illustrated at the point 
of sale. They argued the Managed Fund was considered suitable for low risk investors and 
that the charges were made clear to Mr D. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In 2000 I can see Mr Ds objective was to save on a regular basis for the foreseeable future. 
At the time he was in full time education, was working part time earning £250 net per month, 
with £150 disposable monthly income and £400 in his current account. Theres no record of 
any prior investment experience, which is not unexpected given his age. Nor is there a 
record of any discussion of Mr Ds attitude to risk. The suitability letter says:
You are comfortable that the contributions to your plan will be invested in real assets such 
as equities and property on your behalf. This means that the value of the plan is determined 
by the value of those assets and can go down as well as up. You confirmed that you 
understand this.
While they acknowledge that Mr Ds attitude to risk wasnt established, Zurich has confirmed 
they consider the Managed Fund to be suitable for investors with a low attitude to risk. The 
Managed Fund was described in the key features document as a balanced investment 
portfolio spread across a wide range of shares, properties, fixed interest securities and 
cash. An example asset breakdown was given, showing 78% of the fund was invested in 
equities, 11% in fixed interest, 4% in property and the remaining held in currency deposits 
and cash. 
I find it very unusual that an adviser recommended this fund, with such a high equity 
weighting, to a first-time investor without a detailed discussion about their attitude to risk. 
Given that Mr D was told that the value of the investments could go down, Im satisfied he 
likely was willing to take an amount of risk. However, Im not convinced that Mr D would 
have really appreciated the risk this fund entailed, given his circumstances as a first-time 
investor, with minimal savings and disposable income. Given what little appears to have 
been discussed, I dont think Mr D was able to make an informed choice about the amount of 
risk involved in this investment. 
Mr D was investing a third of his disposable income each month and only had a very small 
reserve amount of savings. So even if I were to accept he was willing to take a higher level 
of risk with his investment, Im not convinced he had the capacity to take that amount of risk. 
In particular, the reduction in yield that applied meant that he likely wouldnt benefit from the 
type of growth that would normally be expected with a higher risk investment. The ongoing 
charges on the plan meant the growth was reduced from 6% to 2.6% using the medium 
growth rate, and this didnt include the cost of life cover, which would have further reduced 
the ability of the plan to grow. I dont think it was suitable for the adviser to recommend that 
he invest in this plan and take this level of risk, when even if the investment performed well, 
hed only get the sort of return he could have achieved with a less risky investment. 
As a first-time investor I wouldnt expect Mr D to be able to interpret the illustration on his 
own without further explanation from the adviser. The adviser hasnt given any context in 
their suitability letter about the impact the reduction in yield would have on the ability of the 
money to grow. If the adviser had fully informed Mr D about this, I think its unlikely hed have 
taken such a high amount of risk or chosen to proceed with the recommended investment.
Given Mr Ds circumstances in 2000 I also dont think it was reasonable to recommend a 
fixed term plan with such high surrender penalties. At the time of the sale, those penalties 
were 12.5% of the amount that would otherwise have been invested from the date of 
surrender to the end of the ten-year term. Mr D was 15 at the time of the sale, and nothing 
was discussed about his plans post-GCSEs  for instance whether hed be going on to A 
Levels, university or full-time work. If hed needed access to his money at 18, at a time when 
a lot of people face a change in their circumstances, he would have been facing a surrender 
penalty of around £500  almost a whole years worth of his savings. 
This doesnt appear to have been explained to Mr D in the meeting, based on the notes from 
the fact find. While the existence of a surrender penalty was mentioned in the suitability 
letter, the actual amount that could be applied especially in the early years, was not 
explained. Again, this meant Mr D couldnt make an informed choice  and given the severity 
of the penalty, if it had been explained I dont think hed have invested. Due to the likelihood 
of his circumstances changing over the ten-year term, I dont think it was fair to advise him to 
invest in a plan with a set term and such high surrender penalties. While I appreciate that the inclusion of the life cover here was minimal, given Mr D was a 
non-tax payer I dont think the fact this made the policy qualifying offered a benefit to him. I 
appreciate he may have been a tax payer in future when he needed to access the 
investment. However, given what Ive said above about the term of the plan, and the fact that 
future circumstances, including tax, dont appear to have been discussed by the adviser, I 
dont think the inclusion of life cover was suitable here. 
Zurich has argued that the adviser provided Mr D with plenty of information about the 
investment. However, they still had a duty to recommend something suitable, and factoring 
in all the elements Ive set out above, I dont think the investment Zurich recommended was 
suitable for Mr D.   
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr D 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr D would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Zurich do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
MIP 
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mr D wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr D's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr D would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Zurich Assurance Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman