DRN-3921707
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Advantage Finance Ltd irresponsibly gave her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs P acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from Advantage. 
The cash price of the car was £14,500. She paid a cash deposit of £7,000 and the remaining 
£7,500 was financed by the hire purchase agreement. Mrs P was required to pay 59 monthly 
repayments of £246.05, followed by a final optional payment of £446.05 if Mrs P wanted to 
take ownership of the car. 
Mrs P complained to Advantage in March 2022 to say the agreement shouldnt have been 
given to her because it was unaffordable. She said that Advantage didnt complete sufficient 
checks before lending to her. 
Advantage didnt uphold her complaint. It said it verified her monthly income to be £1,500 
per month and completed a credit check which showed that Mrs P had managed her existing 
credit facilities well. It says it showed she had around £9,500 in outstanding unsecured credit 
and a mortgage. It says it also estimated her essential expenditure using statistical data from 
external sources. It says these checks demonstrated Mrs P had sufficient disposable income 
to afford the monthly repayments without difficulty. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Advantage had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before lending. However, he 
didnt think Advantage ought to have reached a different lending decision even if it had 
completed more thorough checks. This was because the information Mrs P had provided 
about her circumstances demonstrated the agreement was likely to be affordable. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She said that the agreement was unaffordable and the bank statements 
shed provided from around the time of the application show she was consistently 
overdrawn. She said this demonstrated she was in financial difficulty. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting credit, Advantage were required to ensure Mrs P could afford to repay the 
borrowing without difficulty. There isnt a set list of checks Advantage were required to 
complete. Instead, it needed to ensure any checks it did complete were proportionate in the 
specific circumstances of Mrs Ps application. What this means is that there isnt a one-size-
fits-all approach to what is proportionate. In deciding what proportionate checks ought to be, 
Advantage needed to take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): the amount 
borrowing, the total repayable, the size of the regular repayments, the term, the cost of the 
credit and Mrs Ps circumstances. 
Ive considered that Mrs P was required to repay almost £15,000 to Advantage (not including 
the deposit she paid) and that this was effectively double the amount she had borrowed. 
This was to be repaid over five years. I dont consider this to be an insignificant commitment 
and my starting point therefore is that any checks ought to have been reasonably thorough. 
Advantage checked Mrs Ps likely income using information provided by a credit reference 
agency, it completed a credit check and used statistical data to estimate her monthly 
expenditure. I note Mrs P also paid a substantial cash deposit of £7,000 and I can see why 
Advantage may have taken this as a positive sign that affordability was less likely to be an 
issue. 
Ive seen that Mrs P defaulted on four credit accounts around two years prior to the 
application, suggesting she had struggled financially relatively recently. It seems Advantage 
were aware of these defaults. Because of this, its debatable whether Advantages 
affordability checks went far enough. However, even if I thought they should have done more 
I dont think more thorough checks would have revealed any affordability concerns. 
I say this because Ive seen that Mrs P had come into a large sum of money just before the 
application which is how she was able to afford such a sizeable deposit. Further, her bank 
statements demonstrate that her income was higher than Advantage had thought it was and 
that her committed monthly expenditure was comfortably serviced by that income. From 
everything Ive seen of Mrs Ps financial circumstances from around the time of the 
application, it appears she had sufficient disposable income to meet all of her committed 
expenditure, the repayments towards the new hire purchase agreement and have a 
reasonable amount left over for unexpected costs.
Mrs P says that she regularly utilised her overdraft and this is evident from her statements. 
While I agree, I dont think her use of the overdraft demonstrated that she was in financial 
difficulty. I say this because it appears Mrs P transferred the majority of her pay into another 
account soon after she received it. It was these transfers that caused her to go overdrawn 
rather than because her committed expenditure exceeded her income. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Advantage made an unfair lending 
decision in giving Mrs P this hire purchase agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman