DRN-4338213
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) didnt make a 
cash payment for vehicle repairs under his motor insurance policy, following an accident.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Admiral includes its agents, representatives and 
contractors for the purposes of this decision letter. 
What happened
Mr W was involved in a road accident in early February 2023 that wasnt his fault. He 
reported the matter to Admiral as his insurer at the relevant time, and it started to process 
the claim. Admiral initially thought that the vehicle was a total loss, but then agreed that the 
vehicle was repairable. It asked Mr W to obtain a repair estimate and said that it would then 
settle his claim with cash in lieu. Mr W said that Admiral didnt honour its agreement. 
Mr W said that an estimate had been provided by the garage in question as hed been 
working in the area at the time. The garage wasnt convenient for repairs and Mr W wanted 
to received cash in lieu in order to arrange repairs at his convenience. However, Admiral 
then withdrew its cash in lieu offer as the garage had already ordered parts for repair. It 
considered that it had acted fairly and reasonably and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. The relevant investigator upheld his complaint. 
She didnt consider that Admiral had acted in a fair and reasonable manner. She thought 
that when Admiral received the repair estimate from Mr W, it had assumed that he wanted 
the car repaired at the garage, which wasnt an approved garage. It had then made a 
mistake in authorising the repairs rather than using the estimate to make a cash in lieu 
payment as agreed. She said there was no evidence that Mr W had asked for or agreed for 
the garage to complete repairs.
The investigator therefore recommended that Admiral settle the claim with a cash in lieu 
payment based upon the repair estimate that Mr W originally provided, together with interest. 
She also recommended that Admiral pay £200 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W.
Admiral didnt agree with the outcome of Mr Ws complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider is whether Admiral treated Mr W in a fair and reasonable 
manner in declining to make a cash in lieu settlement. I dont consider that it did, and Ill 
explain why. In reaching this decision, Ive also considered the parties submissions as 
summarised below.
Mr W said that Admiral said it could settle the claim by means of a cash in lieu settlement. 
He said that Admiral had told him just to get a quote and it could pay him. Mr W said that 
Admiral didnt advise that it had to be a garage that it had approved. In March 2023, Admiral 
had then asked Mr W to resend the repair estimate hed received, and it had agreed the 
estimate directly with the garage, so the garage had ordered the parts. Two days later, Mr 
W called Admiral as the garage had contacted him to say that repairs had been approved. 
Mr W was confused as he was expecting a cash in lieu settlement. If hed used the relevant 
garage, it would have meant a 45 miles journey there and 45 miles back with no curtesy car.
Mr W said hed asked Admiral to cancel the work as soon as it told Mr W that it had been 
given the go-ahead by Admiral and he also told the garage not to proceed. Admirals 
engineers said that a cash in lieu payment would only have been possible if the garage 
hadnt ordered parts. It said that it wasnt its policy to pay cash in such circumstances as Mr 
W had gone to a non-approved garage, the garage had already ordered parts and couldnt 
get a refund. Mr W was unhappy that Admiral was now refusing to pay a cash in lieu 
settlement and saying repairs had to take place at the non-approved repair garage.
Mr W felt strongly that all hed done was to follow Admirals instructions. Mr W also said that 
hed spent many hours on hold on the phone when hed been attempting to contact Admiral. 
Hed found the whole process to be a frustrating and horrible experience. 
I now turn to Admirals response to the complaint. It upheld certain service aspects of Mr Ws 
complaint but didnt uphold the substantive issue regarding Mr Ws wish to receive a cash in 
lieu settlement. It said that the garage in question had initially been chosen by Mr W. It noted 
that the garage went ahead and ordered parts for repair, despite being asked not to by both 
Admiral and Mr W. It said that as the garage was a non-approved repairer with whom it had 
no contract, it was unable to have any input into the decision to order the parts for repairs. It 
said it was unable to overturn or dispute the decision of its in-house engineer in this respect.
Admiral said that even if its engineer had agreed the repair estimate, the onus was still on 
the customer to ensure that the garage hed chosen knew they were never to do the repairs 
and were to provide an estimate only. It said it had no control over the chosen repairer and 
its decision to order parts. It asked why a garage would order parts without first contacting 
the customer to confirm that the estimate was agreed and then, if they incorrectly believed 
they were to repair the car, discuss booking in dates with them? It added that the garage 
had stated that Admiral was liable for the cost of the parts.
Admiral said that as per the policy terms and conditions, it had the right to resolve claims as 
it saw fit. In this instance, it said repair was appropriate due to the customers chosen 
repairers actions. Admiral thought that the customer should have made the situation clear 
to their chosen repairer that they never intended to have the repairs completed when they 
had the estimate done With its own approved repairers, Admiral sends an estimate only 
instruction so that the position is clear. In summary, Admiral considered its current stance 
was the best outcome available otherwise unnecessary further costs could be incurred.
As to the service issues Mr W complained of, Admiral upheld Mr Ws complaint. It 
acknowledged that there had been long hold times on the phone, poor communication and a 
need for Mr W to chase for updates throughout. It recognized that it hadnt been able to meet 
Mr Ws expectations and said that backlogs had been the main reason for the shortfall in 
service. Admiral sincerely apologised for any inconvenience this may have caused and had 
offered £150 to recognise the resulting distress and inconvenience.
Having carefully considered the evidence and submissions in this matter, I now provide my 
reasoning for this final decision. I consider that this whole unfortunate episode has arisen 
due to lack of clarity and confusion in process. I cant however say that this lack of clarity and confusion was anything to do with the customers actions in this case. Mr W wouldnt be 
expected to be well-versed with the insurers procedures in the event of a claim. Im satisfied 
however that Admiral didnt act in a fair and reasonable manner in all respects.
Firstly, I can understand why Mr W was reluctant for repair works at a garage would have 
meant a 45 miles journey there and 45 miles back with no curtesy car. I can also understand 
why he used a non-approved garage to obtain a quote as Admiral hadnt informed his that 
this was necessary.
Ive listened to relevant case calls, and I note that towards the end of February 2023, Mr W 
called Admiral for an update. It said that it would proceed on a cash in lieu basis. It advised 
Mr W to obtain an estimate from a garage of his choice, and Admirals engineer would then 
review the estimate. It would then make a cash in lieu payment, and it took his bank details. 
The records also show that Admiral was aware that Mr W didnt wish to be bound to a 
particular garage and that he wanted to do the repairs at his leisure. Admiral had then 
recommended use of an automatic estimate approval system, without explaining that 
automatic approval could well lead to the garage assuming that it was authorised to proceed.
The notes show that Admiral had obtained the estimate, and once approved by Admiral, I 
consider that the onus was then upon Admiral to pay cash in lieu to Mr W, as agreed. I also 
consider that the onus was upon Admiral to ensure that the garage understood that its 
approval of the estimate didnt necessarily mean that it should proceed to order parts. It was 
Admiral that had advised that Mr W could use a garage of his choice and to use the 
automatic approval system. I consider Mr W did nothing more than to follow Admirals 
instructions. In the circumstances, I conclude that it was unfair and unreasonable for Admiral 
to renege on its agreement to pay cash in lieu and Admirals case notes support Mr Ws 
version of events.
The case notes also indicate that Mr W had contacted Admiral one evening at the end of 
March 2023 as the garage had contacted him to say that the estimate was authorised. Hed 
contacted Admiral to reiterate that he was expecting cash in lieu. This record provides 
supporting evidence that it had been on the basis of Admirals contact with the garage 
(presumably through the automatic estimate approval system), that the garage had been led 
to believe that it was to proceed with the work, and so ordered relevant parts.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr W provided Admiral with an estimate, and then reasonably 
expected to receive a cash in lieu payment as promised. Admirals claim notes and 
telephone records support this finding. On the balance of probabilities, I also consider that 
the lack of clarity and confusion here was due to Admirals failure to make it crystal clear to 
Mr W and the garage that confirmation of an estimate didnt mean that Admiral was 
authorising work to proceed. I therefore conclude that Admiral acted in an unfair and 
unreasonable manner in declining to pay Mr W a cash in lieu settlement at the relevant time.
As for the service failures including long waiting times, poor communication and Mr W 
having to chase, Admiral upheld these aspects of Mr W and offered compensation of £150. 
Whilst I agree that modest compensation is appropriate in such circumstances, I conclude 
that £200 compensation would be a more appropriate sum to reflect the frustration and 
inconvenience caused in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to the following in response to his complaint: -
 
- Settle Mr Ws claim by making a cash in lieu payment in accordance with the repair 
estimate originally provided by Mr W, within 28 days of this final decision.- To pay interest on the cash in lieu amount, as calculated from the date the claim 
should have been settled (14 days after receipt of the estimate) to the date of 
payment, at 8% a year simple interest*
- To pay £200 compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman