DRN-4249013
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Charles James Financial Planning Limited 
(CJFP) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W was an existing customer of CJFP and his pension planning had been discussed with 
CJFP a number of times. Ive seen records that show this took place from 1999 onwards. 
On 18 March 2005 Mr W received advice to move two existing personal pension funds to 
another provider. The value of these funds was around £25,000 and I understand they were 
the proceeds of an occupational scheme Mr W had transferred some time earlier. Mr W 
hasnt complained about this advice.
However, Mr Ws DB scheme was also looked at in March 2005 and it was noted that Mr W 
felt that both his old employer and the DB scheme were facing problems and that Mr W was 
concerned about this. The letter says that the scheme was closed to new members and was 
in deficit. A transfer analysis had been carried out but CJFPs advice was not to transfer at 
this time. Mr W accepted this advice and he remained a deferred member of the scheme. 
Mr W approached CJFP later in 2005 to further discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
This was because he had now decided to move abroad and he had placed a deposit on a 
property development overseas.  
Its documented that Mr W had recently failed to secure some borrowing which he said he 
needed to fund this move. Because of this he wanted to access his pension. Mr Ws 
representative says he was referred to CJFP again by the prospective lender when he was 
unable to secure the borrowing. 
CJFP completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that:
Mr W was 50 years old, married and had no financial dependents. 
He was employed full time and was hoping to retire early.
Mr W owned his own home which was subject to a mortgage. 
He had £5,000 savings in cash. 
He had recently surrendered two investments to repay some credit that he had. 
In respect of his pension arrangements Mr W was a deferred member of a DB scheme in 
which he had 11 years of service. The transfer value of this was £59,223. It was estimated 
that this scheme would pay Mr W an income of around £7,415 at his age 65.
CJFP also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it said was medium. 
It said that his capacity for loss was low.
On 13 December 2005, CJFP advised Mr W not to transfer his pension benefits. It said, 
given his circumstances, that he should take the benefits early from the DB scheme and 
access them this way. 
It said that at age 51, his DB scheme would provide a tax-free lump sum of £9,810.60 and 
an annual pension of £1,306.46 increasing by a regular amount annually. It said that if he 
transferred to a personal pension then at the same age he could receive a tax-free lump sum 
of £11,966 and an annual pension of £1,100 to £1,230 per annum increasing by a regular 
annual amount.
But it was noted that Mr W did need access to funds as he was in the process of purchasing 
a property development abroad, he had already paid a significant deposit for this. Mr W was 
also in the process of selling his existing property and business to fund this. He had tried to 
raise the funds he needed by borrowing but was unable to do this due to some adverse 
credit.
The suitability letter went on to say that Mr W had insisted on transferring the DB scheme to 
access a greater amount of tax-free cash. It then gave Mr W a recommendation to transfer 
his DB scheme to a personal pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were as follows:
It met Mr Ws requirements for a tax efficient means of saving for retirement.
He could retire from age 50 onwards although this could change in the future. 
He could get tax-free cash of up to 25% of the fund value. 
Subsequent to this, Mr W transferred the DB scheme into a personal pension and invested 
the proceeds. He took the maximum amount of tax-free cash that he could straight away. 
The remaining transfer value of £47,864 was invested in two funds that CJFP said matched 
his attitude to risk.
In 2009 Mr W received further advice from CJFP. His property purchase, and overseas 
move, hadnt proceeded as he expected, and he was now in financial difficulty. 
CJFP advised Mr W to purchase an annuity. Its purchase price was £50,600 and he 
received a level annual income of £2,872.92. Mr W hasnt complained about this transaction. 
Mr W complained in 2022 to CJFP about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
thought that he may have lost out significantly. He said he should have been clearly advised 
not to transfer away from his DB scheme. And CJFP should have declined to process the 
transfer. But for CJFPs involvement in the process, Mr W said he would have stayed with 
this DB scheme. 
 
CJFP didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It firstly said that it had been brought too late. It then 
went on to say that Mr W had a need for cash at the time of sale due to his overseas house 
purchase. The amount he could receive from a personal pension was higher than the cash 
he could receive from his DB scheme. Because of this Mr W insisted that the transfer went 
ahead. The analysis was robust, and the recommendation was that Mr W shouldnt transfer 
his DB scheme. Mr W was fully informed about this but proceeded in any event. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators firstly considered if the 
complaint was brought in time. Having considered everything she thought that it was. CJFP 
didnt disagree with this and went on to provide the information that it had about the sale of 
the plan. However, later on, CJFP again said that it thought the complaint hadnt been brought in time. 
Ive issued a decision saying the complaint is within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. So, the merits of the complaint can now be considered. 
 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was clear that the transfer may not 
have been in Mr Ws best interests financially. That said, Mr W did seem to have a pressing 
need for cash. And whilst she thought that CJFPs insistent customer process could have 
been better she did think that Mr W would have proceeded in any event, due to this pressing 
need for funds.  
Mr W, via his representative, disagreed, saying that it wasnt properly established at the time 
of sale that Mr W had a need for cash. He did have other means of obtaining funds and he 
had other assets. And there was no immediate need for him to transfer as he wasnt due to 
move for over a year. So, the transfer wasnt suitable for him. Mr W agreed that CJFPs 
insistent customer process was flawed. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CJFP's actions here.
COB 5.3.29A(4):
The regulator expected a prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to 
make an informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved 
and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up. 
At least one illustration for the personal pension/section-32 plan had to be on a similar basis 
to the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment were shown.
A reason why letter or equivalent had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation. It should:
explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme. and
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.
Presumption of unsuitabilityCOB 5.3.29G specified the information a business should gather from the consumer and the 
DB scheme in order to assess suitability. Importantly it also said that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook.
As far as I can see CJFP didnt carry out a transfer value analysis (as required by the 
regulator) showing how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). CJFP does refer to 
a transfer analysis but this doesnt seem to have been the same thing. 
CJFP did look at the situation based on what Mr W could achieve if he took benefits straight 
away from the DB scheme and if he transferred to a personal pension as Ive outlined above. 
And CJFP did explain the risks of the personal pension versus the risks of the DB scheme 
and that he would be giving up important guarantees. The suitability letter went on to say 
that he should consider taking his pension benefits from the DB scheme. And use the tax-
free lump sum payment to help with the move.  
But, as I said above, what CJFP should have done, and what the regulator required it to do, 
was to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the 
benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and 
I do think this would have been a relevant consideration here. 
I appreciate that Mr W wasnt looking to keep the DB scheme but a clear explanation of what 
investment growth hed need to achieve to replicate the benefits he was giving up at the 
schemes normal retirement date may have changed this. Its a significant failing that CJFP 
didnt provide the analysis it should have done. 
I cant be certain, but I think its reasonable to say, particularly given Mr Ws lower attitude to 
risk, that a full analysis would have likely shown that Mr W was likely to receive substantially 
lower benefits due to the DB transfer. For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt in Mr Ws best interests, as CJFP said. 
But Mr W was planning to move abroad. I understand that hed already made significant 
borrowing to do this. And his plans were fairly advanced, even if they wouldnt come to 
fruition until sometime in the next year. 
Mr W had sought advice about releasing some funds as he wasnt able to obtain any further 
borrowing. Mr W did not have enough savings, or other assets he could use. So, I do think it 
was established that Mr W had a genuine need to obtain some funds straight away. And 
Mr W had looked around elsewhere to do this but was unable to. This was the reason why 
he was referred back to CJFP to look at accessing his pension.
So by accessing his tax-free cash Mr W mayve been able to complete the move abroad, 
which he had already committed significant assets to. This included taking steps to sell his 
home and business and become semi-retired when the move was completed. Although this meant Mr W wouldnt be able to take as much income from his pension as he 
wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme, Im satisfied that Mr W thought that 
accessing his pension was necessary in the circumstances.  
Mr W was married and so the spouses and pension would have been useful to Mrs W if 
Mr W predeceased her. That said he was clear with the adviser that he did not have any 
financial dependents and that the spouses pension the DB scheme provided wasnt a 
priority. So, I think Mr W was prepared to lose these benefits. And their life cover 
arrangements were something that it was noted they should consider later on, after the 
house move. 
Was it right to classify Mr W as an insistent customer
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the 
regulators Handbook which required CJFP to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required CJFP to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, CJFPs recommendation had to be 
clear and Mr W had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation.
Like the Investigator, I consider there were shortcomings in CJFPs processes and how it 
treated Mr W as an insistent client  that is, one who wanted to act contrary to the advice 
given. The information about Mr W acting against CJFPs advice is very brief and there is no 
confirmation from Mr W in his own words why he wanted to go ahead against the advice. 
And I think this would have been good practice here, even though it is clear from the 
documentation I have why he was going ahead. 
And, as Ive outlined above, I dont think that Mr W was given all of the information he should 
have been. There are some key pieces of information that Im not certain that Mr W was 
provided with.
However, even if CJFP had gone further to try and dissuade Mr W from transferring, I think 
Mr W would still have gone ahead with the transfer of his DB scheme into the personal 
pension and made the subsequent investments. Ill explain why.
Mr W was a longstanding customer of CJFP and his pension had been discussed previously. 
It was documented in early 2005 that Mr W had some concerns with the DB scheme (it was 
closed to new members and in deficit etc). But after CJFP considered the benefits of the 
scheme, and these concerns, he accepted its advice not to transfer at this time. So, I think 
its reasonable to say that he wouldnt have transferred unless his personal situation had 
changed. And this is what happened here and I think this is a key point. 
It's established that later on in 2005 Mr W placed a deposit on a house that would be built in 
2006/7 overseas. He needed to pay half of the balance in 2006 and the remainder in 2007 
when the house was completed. He had been able to borrow some of the house purchase 
money from an overseas lender, but he needed to find the remainder. Hed tried to borrow in 
the UK but he hadnt been able to secure any further loans. He said that the lender itself told 
him to consider using his pension benefits to fund this. I understand that Mr W was looking 
to ultimately sell his UK property and his business but he wasnt able to do this whilst there 
was some uncertainty about the overseas properly  such as the building not being 
completed and so on. The fact find notes show that in the second meeting to discuss the advice Mr W thought that 
this was the only realistic way he had of securing the funds he needed to finance his dream 
overseas move. And in the notes and communications that exist, its clear that Mr W 
confirmed that he didnt think that he had another means to finance the changes to his life 
that he felt he needed to make. Im satisfied from the evidence that I have that this was the 
case. I think Mr W was clearly driven to transferring his pension to access the tax-free cash. 
And he did have what he thought were good reasons for doing this. 
So he did have a genuine and pressing need for further money, and I dont think he was able 
to obtain this elsewhere. Taking all of this into consideration I think its evident that Mr W was 
set on this course of action. He had strong personal reasons for wanting to transfer out of his 
DB scheme, and even if CJFP had done more to try and explain why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve gone ahead anyway.
Summary
CJFP initially recommended that Mr W shouldnt transfer out of his DB scheme. It explained 
the benefits he could receive now and in the future from the DB scheme. And explained that 
the DB transfer would also likely not meet his retirement aims. It went on to explain that Mr 
W should consider taking the benefits from the scheme and accessing his guaranteed 
pension this way. 
I think the advice and explanations that CJFP provided were reasonable. It demonstrated 
that it had considered Mr Ws situation and provided what I think were viable alternatives to 
what he wanted to do. I think it was clearly presented to Mr W that the DB transfer was not in 
his best interests. 
So, it was suitable advice for Mr W not to transfer; CJFP explained why this was and gave 
what I think were reasonable alternatives. But Mr W, for his own strongly held reasons 
disregarded this advice. 
Overall, even though I think CJFPs process could have been more robust, I dont think that 
would have changed the outcome in Mr Ws particular case. I think Mr W would have 
pursued the transfer and insisted on CJFP transferring his pension in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman