DRN-3198869
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy with the replacement product provided after she made a claim under her 
appliance cover with Domestic & General Insurance PLC (D&G). Shed like the appliance 
replaced again.
What happened
Mrs V had multi-appliance cover with D&G. She claimed under the policy for her faulty 
dishwasher. D&G couldnt repair it, so it offered a range of replacement appliances. Mrs V 
chose a new, different brand of dishwasher and D&G arranged delivery.
Four months after the dishwasher was fitted, Mrs V complained to D&G that it wasn't fit for 
purpose. Thats because she couldnt fit her dinner plates into it at the same time as her 
cutlery and glasses. D&G arranged an inspection and told Mrs V that it was down to the 
design rather than a fault. Mrs V remained unhappy and she thought D&G should replace 
her dishwasher.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that D&G had replaced the 
appliance in line with the policy terms and conditions, so he didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. Our investigator also said an email, which Mrs V was told had been deleted, was on 
her file with D&G. Although thered clearly been some confusion, he didnt think it warranted 
any action.
Mrs V disagreed. She said as the supplier of the appliance, D&G had a duty to make sure it 
was fit for purpose.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs V will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain.
My role is to decide whether D&G handled Mrs Vs insurance claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, and whether it handled her claim fairly in the circumstances.
The overriding issue in dispute is whether its D&Gs responsibility to provide another 
replacement dishwasher for Mrs V.
The policy says, where an appliance cant be repaired, D&G will:
arrange to replace your product with a product of a same or similar make and technical 
specification, subject to these terms and conditions.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs V and D&G to see whether she was offered a similar 
appliance. D&G provided Mrs V with a link to a choice of several dishwashers so she could 
view them, and explained the same brand as her existing appliance was the closest match to 
hers. She said quite clearly, I dont want that, explaining it was because of the additional 
charges for installation and the problems shed had with repairs to her appliance. She chose 
a different brand of appliance because she said it matched the colour and brand of other 
appliances she already had in her kitchen and didnt have any additional installation charges. 
At no point during the call did Mrs V say she had any particular requirements regarding the 
internal design of the dishwasher. So, based on this evidence, Im satisfied that D&G offered 
Mrs V a product of the same or similar make and specification in line with the policy. 
Mrs V said she paid towards the replacement appliance so, under the Consumer Rights Act 
(2015), D&G is the supplier and has a duty to her to ensure the product is fit for purpose. 
Firstly, I havent identified any evidence to show that she paid towards the appliance. 
Indeed, Mrs V explained that she chose the brand that she did to avoid any additional 
charges. She placed the order online, while still on the phone to D&G, and Mrs V didnt say 
she had to make a payment. Secondly, my remit is to consider only whether D&G has 
provided the insurance service for which Mrs V paid. As Ive said, it replaced her appliance 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, so Im satisfied that it provided an 
appropriate service. 
Ive thought about why Mrs V doesnt think the replacement appliance was fit for purpose. 
She said it wont accommodate both dinner plates and glasses in the same cycle because of 
the additional cutlery tray. It seems that this is simply a design limitation in respect of 
consumer preference. Mrs V hasnt said the appliance doesnt wash the dishes, just that she 
cant fit in everything she wants to. Given that she chose the appliance from a range offered 
by D&G, I cant say that its done anything wrong here.
Further to this, Mrs V didnt tell D&G she was unhappy with the appliance until shed had it 
for around four months. During that time, she used it. If shed asked D&G to replace it much 
sooner, the outcome may well have been different. But I dont think its reasonable to ask 
D&G to replace the now used and functioning appliance just because the internal layout of it 
doesnt suit Mrs V. I dont think it was unfair that D&G refused to provide another 
replacement appliance.
Mrs V complained that D&G deleted her email about the appliance. The account records 
show that the email was logged, although when she called two days later the agent couldnt 
see it. I can understand that this wouldve upset Mrs V and caused some confusion. 
However, I dont think this fairly simple and short-lived mistake affects the outcome of Mrs 
Vs complaint or warrants any compensation. 
Overall, its unfortunate that Mrs V chose a replacement appliance which didnt suit her 
needs. But as theres no evidence that D&G advised her it would, the appliance isnt faulty, 
and D&G provided it in line with the terms of the policy, I cant see any reason to uphold Mrs 
Vs complaint. I wont be asking D&G to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Debra VaughanOmbudsman