DRN-2749003
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
 In February 2020 Mr P fell victim to a scam.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all in 
great detail here. But both parties accept that Mr P was contacted by a fraudster, who had 
intercepted an exchange of emails hed had with a developer, regarding building works being 
carried out on a property in Thailand. The fraudster tricked Mr P into making a payment for 
£24,998.17 that Mr P thought was towards the building work  but that was actually made to 
an account controlled by the fraudster.
Since March 2018, Mr P had been involved in the purchase of a retirement property in 
Thailand. In the two years leading up to the scam, Mr P had made three previous payments 
to the developer. On each occasion Mr P had made the payments from his HSBC account to 
a bank account held in Thailand.
Mr P has said he had built a long-term friendship with representatives of the development 
company and that they had ties to the UK. 
On 9 January 2020, Mr P received an email asking for a payment of £24,998.17, the 
payment was towards work on floor tiles and window/door installation.  Mr P had previously 
been updated on the schedule of works, so was expecting the request for a payment.
On the same day Mr P received a second email indicating that Mr P should ignore the earlier 
email as it contained incorrect details, the email said an invoice was attached and requested 
payment.  
The following day a further email was received, this email, which Mr P thought was from the 
developers asked Mr P to make payment for the invoice to its UK bank account. Unknown to 
Mr P at the time, fraudsters had intercepted the email chain and he was now communicating 
with fraudsters. The email from the fraudsters followed the genuine email chain, but with the 
sending email address from the fraudster having one different letter compared to the 
genuine email address.
Mr P received a further email a few days later, which again he thought was genuinely from 
the developer. But was once again from the fraudster. The email was asking Mr P to confirm 
safe receipt of the request for payment to be made to the UK bank account. At the time,     
Mr Ps partner responded explaining that Mr P was out of the country and would deal with 
the matter on his return to the UK.
Believing everything to be genuine and on his return to the UK, Mr P attended an HSBC 
branch on 3 February 2020 and made a payment, to the UK bank details provided, for 
£24,998.17. Mr P has said at the time of the payment he was asked to clarify the account 
details were correct and there were no additional questions.
The scam came to light a few days later, on 11 February 2020, when Mr P received an email 
from the genuine developer asking for a payment. Mr P has said he raised the matter with 
HSBC on the same day. Mr P is unhappy HSBC didnt ask any scam questions at the point 
he was making a payment to a new beneficiary in branch.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case, it says; Mr P was grossly negligent and he made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods or 
services and who he transacted with was legitimate.
HSBC wrote to Mr P on 25 March 2020 with its final response. HSBC said that it could have 
done more to protect and advise Mr P prior to him making the payment. But it added that it 
believed Mr P could also have taken more responsibility and conducted more checks prior to 
making the payment.
Because of this HSBC considered it was 50% liable for the payment Mr P made, and it 
agreed to refund £12,499.09. HSBC also recovered £6.23 from the beneficiary bank, which it 
credited to Mr Ps account.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. 
She thought Mr P had a reasonable basis for believing the instruction hed received was 
genuine.  Alongside this, she also didnt think the questions HSBC asked at the time Mr P 
made the payment went far enough and that it should have provided a warning  our 
investigator thought if it had done so, the fraud would have come to light and Mr P wouldnt 
have lost his money. So she thought HSBC were liable under the provisions of the CRM 
code.
HSBC responded, disagreeing with our investigators view. In summary it said;
- it disagreed strongly that Mr P had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment 
was for genuine services, or that who they were liaising with was legitimate
- the view had been reached without regard to personal characteristics, in that Mr P 
was not vulnerable or unsophisticated
- its offer of 50% was in compliance with the CRM code and was fair and reasonable
- Mr P did not meet the requisite level of care and should rightly bear some 
responsibility
- it was its strong view that taking into account the circumstances, Mr P clearly 
behaved in a grossly negligent manner
- there were highly concerning factors regarding the case which could and should have 
caused Mr P to question the legitimacy of the payment 
- Mr P chose not to heed red flags, such as the account he was being asked to pay 
suddenly changing
- Mr P did not call the representative to validate the details, despite the fact they had 
already seemingly made a mistake in the details provided on a previous email
- this was not a sophisticated scam, it was very straightforward and mirrors the exact 
type of scam that HSBC warns about on its websites.
Our investigator, in response, was still persuaded Mr P had a reasonable basis for belief and 
didnt agree that Mr P had been grossly negligent. She also didnt agree that the scam was 
not sophisticated enough for Mr P to have fallen victim to. She felt the continuity of the 
emails gave Mr P little reason for concern and made the scam sophisticated. She also 
reiterated her position that HSBC ought to have done more to raise concerns during the set up of the payment in branch and asked further questions.
HSBC responded to say that it still disagreed with our investigators opinion. In summary it 
maintained Mr P didnt have a reasonable basis for belief and that it should have been 
obvious to him that the email address had changed and there was no sensible explanation 
for why he had to pay a UK bank account, when the expenses had been incurred in 
Thailand. It added that it was common knowledge that emails can be hacked and its not 
reasonable for a customer to simply rely on their bank without question. HSBC considers 
there were more than enough warning signs for Mr P to have had significant concern. 
Overall, while it had every sympathy for Mr Ps predicament, it did not accept it should be 
held liable for Mr Ps loss. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded Mr P the full amount 
he lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund Mr P the money he 
has lost
HSBC, although admitting it could have done more to protect Mr P before he made the 
payment, argue that two exceptions from the CRM Code apply. It argues; 
- Mr P made the payment without a reasonable basis of belief that the person he was 
paying was the person they were expecting to pay and was legitimate.
- Mr P was grossly negligent. 
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr P had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine and whether he was grossly negligent. But 
they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr P 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under 
the terms of the CRM Code. I say that because;
- Mr P was expecting to receive an email from the developer. He had been in regular 
communication with them by email and the receipt of an email requesting a payment 
did not cause him any concern. I think its understandable Mr P expected to make a 
payment, especially considering the development had been underway for some time 
and they had made previous instalments for work. 
- The emails from the fraudster appeared within a chain of genuine emails between  
Mr P and the developers and referred to legitimate work that had taken place on the 
development.
- HSBC argue that the email address from the fraudster was different. Ive seen that 
the email address used by the fraudster differed by only one letter. Considering this I 
dont consider it fair, reasonable or realistic for HSBC to expect its customers to identify such a minor discrepancy in an email address - particularly when a firm has 
not sufficiently alerted a customer to the possibility of a fraudster posing as a 
legitimate business in the middle of a chain of genuine email correspondence, using 
the same or a similar email address.
- I dont think Mr P wouldve closely analysed the email address to check it was exactly 
the same  particularly as the email from the fraudster was part of a genuine chain of 
emails. I can understand, without detailed knowledge of how these scams work, why 
Mr P would have considered the email he received, with an instruction to make a 
payment was genuine. 
- Given Mr P was aware the developer had connections with the UK and considering 
he was under the impression that he was liaising with the genuine company.  I dont 
consider the request to send the payment to a UK bank was so implausible that Id 
have expected Mr P to be concerned about whether the payment request was 
genuine. The mere fact that Mr P could have checked the account details over the 
phone with the developer does not equate to a finding that he lacked a reasonable 
basis for belief. 
HSBC has argued Mr P was not vulnerable or unsophisticated, and that this wasnt a 
sophisticated scam. I dont think Mr P was vulnerable at the point the scam took place. But, 
email intercept scams are common and catch many victims  I dont think they are 
unsophisticated scams either. Ive not seen anything in the banks or Mr Ps submissions 
that persuades me his characteristics should make him any less susceptible to this type of 
scam.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that when 
Mr P sent the payment he did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Ive gone on to consider HSBCs point that Mr P clearly behaved in a grossly negligent 
manner. For HSBC to establish this, it would require a very significant degree of 
carelessness on Mr Ps part. I am not persuaded his actions meet that very high bar. I dont 
think Mr P actions show a lack of care that goes significantly beyond what a reasonable 
person would have done in the same situation. I dont think he disregarded or acted with 
indifference towards the risk of his money being stolen.
Im persuaded that he took the actions he did with the genuine belief that he was following a 
legitimate request from his developer to make a payment. I think in similar circumstances a 
reasonable person would have acted in the same way Mr P did here. Overall, I am 
persuaded that Mr P did meet his requisite level of care and I dont believe HSBC has 
established it was able to choose not to refund him under the Code.
Alongside this, Ive also thought about the interaction HSBC had with Mr P when he made 
the payment in branch. In its submission to us HSBC has said that it asked Mr P why he was 
sending money to a different account and Mr P explained it was what the developer wanted 
and that the developer had accounts all over the world.
Considering this I dont think its in doubt that a conversation took place about the payment 
and that HSBC would have been aware that Mr P was intending to pay a builder/developer.  
But importantly, where it was clear Mr P had been provided with new account details to pay, 
HSBC ought reasonably to have asked Mr P how hed received the new bank account 
details.  Mr P hadnt been coached by the fraudster about what to say, so I think its more 
likely than not he would have told the branch he had received the details by email.With this I think its fair and reasonable that the branch, should have then been on alert that 
Mr P could possibly be at risk of financial harm  given its knowledge of these types of 
scams and the prevalence of email intercept scams, which can often involve transfers of 
large sums, as was the case here.
It follows that HSBC could have brought to life what an email intercept scam would look and 
feel like. And to ensure that Mr P wasnt at risk of financial harm, suggested he contact his 
developer on a verified number to confirm the legitimacy of the bank details he had been 
provided with. I note HSBC has said Mr P should have taken steps to protect himself and 
has given examples of how, such as; he should have contacted the developer to question 
why the bank details had changed, could have used a more secure method of payment and 
could have made a smaller test payment. But none of these things were suggested by HSBC 
to Mr P at the time, when HSBC had an opportunity do so. I think had the risk and this type 
of scam have been discussed with Mr P, given the amount he was paying, I believe its more 
likely than not he would have taken additional steps, the scam would have come to light and 
he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
Im conscious its the fraudsters, rather than HSBC, that have ultimately caused the loss. But 
all things considered and in the circumstances, I think HSBC ought to have fully refunded  
Mr P under the provisions of the CRM Code and so it should fairly and reasonably refund the 
remainder of that loss now.
 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So I think its fair that HSBC UK Bank Plc;
- refund Mr P the money he lost (less any money that has already been refunded to 
him)
- pay 8% interest on this amount from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint against 
HSBC UK Bank Plc and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman