DRN-3085020
The complaint
Miss D complains that a car acquire with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2019 Miss D was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. Miss D experienced issues with the engine in September 2019. The issues 
got worse over time and an engine fault message was displayed on the dashboard warning 
Miss D not to drive the car. 
Miss D reported the issue to Moneybarn in March 2019. Moneybarn asked Miss D to provide 
evidence showing that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Miss D provided a screenshot of the dashboard warning message. Moneybarn offered to 
arrange an inspection of the car but didnt hear back from Miss D. Following this, Miss D 
obtained a diagnostic report which found a misfire on one of the cylinders and a fault code 
for low oil.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I wasnt upholding the complaint. I 
looked at the diagnostic report, but I wasnt persuaded that this showed that there was a 
fault present of developing at the point of supply because the report wasnt conclusive on 
this. I explained that this was important because the fault had presented after the first 6 
months, so it was up to Miss D to prove that it was present at the point of supply. I said that 
there was no clear evidence of what had caused the fault or for me to safely conclude that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. The case has now been passed back to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision and I havent seen any further 
information which would cause me to reach different conclusions from those I reached in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman