DRN-1834196
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) are holding him liable for debit card transactions 
which he says he neither made nor authorised and are unwillingly to refund him. He 
complains that TSB are seeking recovery of funds, have closed his account and have 
recorded a CIFAS marker against his name. 
What happened
Mr S is disputing three payments totalling £290.32 made using his debit card and PIN on 
8 May 2019. All three payments were automated fuel dispenser (AFD) - pay at pump 
transactions. The disputed transactions took the account into an unarranged overdraft. 
Mr S says he didnt make these transactions and reported the matter to TSB as fraud on 
13 May 2019, asking it for a refund. He said hed lost his wallet which contained both his 
debit card and provisional driving licence. TSB blocked Mr Ss debit card and issued him 
with a new one. TSB declined Mr Ss claim, as his genuine card and PIN were used and 
there was no point of compromise for his PIN. It referred Mr S to the police and Action 
Fraud. 
A few days later, following an account review TSB took the decision to end its relationship 
with Mr S and close his bank account. It gave him written notice that it would stop providing 
him with banking facilities after two months (60 days). It placed some restrictions on Mr Ss 
account, which meant that he could only operate it by attending a branch with identification. 
Mr S complained to TSB unhappy with its decision to close his account. He also continued to 
dispute the three AFD payments. Mr S says the closure of his account has caused him a 
great deal of stress and inconvenience. And it impacted his mental health.
TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong and had closed Mr Ss account in line with the 
account terms and conditions. Mr S wasnt happy with this response. So, he brought his 
complaint to us.
Whilst Mr Ss complaint was waiting for an investigator to consider it, he informed us that he 
was suffering from severe mental health issues and asked if TSB could put the debt on hold 
until we looked into things. We said that we would ask TSB but explained, we couldnt tell it 
what to do and ultimately this would be at its discretion. TSB informed us that unfortunately 
Mr Ss account had already been closed and the debt had been passed to an external debt 
collector. There was nothing further it could do. Mr S said he would be sending us a letter 
from his doctor  but I cant see that this has been provided.    
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. He 
thought on balance, it was more likely than not that Mr S had authorised the transactions in 
question and therefore he didnt think that TSBs decision to close his account or apply a 
CIFAS marker was unfair. Mr H doesnt accept this, he maintains he didnt make or authorise the disputed transactions 
and that TSB has unfairly closed his account. He asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr S as its clear from what he has told us and TSB 
that he feels strongly about his complaint and I can see he has spent a lot of time and effort 
in bringing his complaint. Im also sorry to hear this whole experience has made him feel 
very unwell and I hope Mr S is getting better. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be 
satisfied that TSB has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Please let 
me explain.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that set out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr S and TSB have read the investigators view, 
so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. Id like to 
assure Mr S Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
disputed transactions
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Ss complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017). Under the 
PSRs 2017 banks are required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction - where 
its customer didnt make or authorise payment(s) themselves. There are some exceptions in 
the regulations, but none Ive needed to consider or that have had an impact on the decision 
Im making here. So, when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the payment(s) 
themselves or allowed them to be made. If were satisfied that they did, then we generally 
wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So, I need to come to a view about whether or not I think Mr S authorised the payment. 
Looking at all the facts of this case, I cant know for certain exactly whats happened. I wasnt 
present at the time Mr S lost his wallet, when the disputed transactions took place or when 
the preceding and ensuing events occurred. So, in situations like these I need to decide a 
case on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. To help me decide this Ive 
looked at the evidence of the payments, as well as what both Mr S and TSB have told us.
Firstly, having reviewed TSBs technical evidence Im satisfied, that Mr Ss genuine card and 
the corresponding PIN were used to make and authenticate the disputed transactions. 
Mr S reported his card as lost, which can explain how someone else might have been in 
possession of his card, but Mr S hasnt, in my view, been able to explain satisfactorily how 
anyone who took his wallet from him or found it by chance knew his PIN. Its not stored on 
the card itself nor would it have been possible for someone to have guessed it. 
Mr Ss testimony hasnt been consistent. TSBs records show when Mr S reported the card 
as lost  he told it his PIN was not compromised. He also, when asked about his PIN told our investigator he had not written down or shared his PIN with anyone and couldnt explain how 
anyone else could have known it. Later, after receiving our investigators outcome not 
upholding his complaint, Mr S changed his testimony to say that he might have had it written 
down in his wallet but wasnt sure. He also said hed mentioned this to TSB when he 
reported the card lost. Whilst Ive not seen any evidence to support Mr Ss recent 
assertations. Ive thought about what he has said, and I find it unlikely that Mr S simply forgot 
to mention it, more so, as Mr S was specifically asked by our investigator if he had written 
his PIN down  to which he without hesitation responded no. 
As Mr S doesnt know exactly when he lost his wallet, Ive carefully looked at Mr Ss 
statements and the activity on his account whilst keeping an open mind about the possibility 
that Mr Ss card and PIN couldve been compromised elsewhere. I can see Mr S last used 
his card and PIN to pay at a fast food restaurant on 7 May 2019 at 7.22pm. He has not 
disputed this transaction. Ive thought about the possibility that someone couldve observed 
him enter his PIN and might have been able to take his wallet at this point. But this still 
doesnt explain why they would then wait till the following day to use the card. This behaviour 
does not match what Id typically expect to see from fraudulent use. Usually youd expect a 
fraudster to make the most of having access to the card and PIN in the shortest amount of 
time to maximise their gain before the fraud is identified and the card blocked. So, on 
balance Im not persuaded this is what happened here.
TSBs records show the first contact it had from Mr S in relation to this matter was on 13 May 
2019 at 6.06pm  which would suggest Mr S didnt notice his wallet missing for five days. 
But Mr S has said that he spoke to TSB to report his card lost on 10 May 2019  but was 
advised by the person he spoke to that the Fraud Team were closed over the weekend and 
to call back on Monday. Based on the evidence I do have, Im not persuaded that Mr Ss 
version of events is what actually happened. I think on balance its more likely than not that 
Mr S didnt call TSB on 10 May 2019 to report his card lost as he claims. I say this because if 
Mr S had realised his card was lost on 10 May 2019, as he has maintained, I dont think its 
unreasonable to think someone in these circumstances wouldve as a minimum checked 
their online banking to ensure there was no unauthorised use. But from the evidence 
provided by TSB Mr S didnt log into his online banking at all on 10 May 2019. I also might 
have expected him to have called TSB to report his card lost a lot earlier than 6pm on 
13 May 2019. These dont feel like actions of a person whod lost their bank card, received 
text messages from their bank about transactions they supposedly didnt recognise and who 
believed theyd been a victim of fraud. 
Mr S has provided very little supporting evidence of his version of events. For example, he 
has not provided this service with a letter from his doctor detailing his medical conditions, 
evidence that hed ordered a replacement provisional drivers licence, he has provided an 
Action Fraud reference number but not a police crime reference number or evidence to 
support his claim that he called to report his card lost on 10 May 2019. I appreciate that any 
of these things in isolation are not conclusive of anything. But they are not irrelevant either 
and, taking account of them altogether and alongside other matters Ive mentioned above, 
and the inconsistencies in what Mr S has told TSB and this service, Im not satisfied that 
Mr Ss account of events is accurate or credible. 
Unfortunately, due to the length of time that has passed its more likely than not that CCTV 
evidence isnt now going to be available, and it would be wrong to make any assumptions 
about what it might or might not have shown. I know that Mr S strongly feels CCTV evidence 
would support his argument that he wasnt involved and is a victim of fraud. But that footage 
would only ever prove whether he, in person, carried out the transactions. What it wouldnt 
prove is whether this was done with his knowledge and permission. And the issue I need to 
decide isnt who physically paid for the goods, but rather were these transactions authorised. Ive taken on board what Mr S has said, that he doesnt even drive, and I accept its entirely 
possible Mr S didnt himself carry out nor benefited from the goods purchased. But I do, 
taking all the above into consideration think that Mr S probably knows very much more about 
the use of his debit card than he has told this service or TSB. And on balance I think its 
more likely than not that Mr S either carried out the disputed transactions himself or allowed 
someone else to do so.
unarranged borrowing
Mr S has also raised concerns that he didnt have enough money in his account to pay for 
the disputed transactions - these took him into an unarranged overdraft. Mr S is unhappy 
about this and doesnt understand why TSB allowed the payments to be made from his 
account when there were insufficient funds. He thinks TSB shouldnt have allowed these 
transactions as they took him into an unarranged overdraft. 
Firstly, the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account state that an attempt to use the card 
when there arent funds available will be taken as a request for an unarranged overdraft. So, 
I cant see TSB has done anything unfair in allowing the payment to go through as it has 
acted in accordance with its terms and conditions. Secondly, the nature of AFD  pay at 
pump transactions, is where a small amount like £1 is first processed to verify the payment 
card. The pump then allows fuel to be dispensed up to the retailers set limit  which is 
usually around £99-£100. The merchant then collects the actual cost within the next couple 
of days. At this point the transactions are guaranteed and so TSB has an obligation to debit 
them from Mr Ss account  so I cant find it did anything wrong by doing so. 
account closure
I think it would be helpful for me to first explain that a bank is entitled to end its banking 
relationship with a customer by closing accounts they hold with it; just the same as a 
customer of a bank may decide to end the relationship themselves. But it must do so in a 
way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
So, Ive thought about whether TSB treated Mr S unfairly in closing his account. But I dont 
think it did. TSB closed Mr Ss account in line with his account terms and conditions, which 
allow TSB to end its relationship provided it does so by giving Mr S appropriate notice  
which I can see it did. No explanation is required to be provided and I cant fairly and 
reasonably ask TSB to provide banking services simply because Mr S wants to remain a 
customer. 
repayment of debt
Mr S has said on numerous occasions, he was willing to pay off the debt if TSB re-opened 
his account. His friends and family had offered to lend him the money. He spoke to TSB and 
had visited a TSB branch several times, but it said its decision to close the account stands. 
So, Mr S didnt think there was any point in paying the debt as he still proclaimed, he was a 
victim and had not authorised the transactions. 
Once Mr Ss account was closed, as hed made no effort to repay the debt  I dont think it 
was unreasonable of TSB to make the decision to pass the debt for recovery. It is entitled to 
recover those funds from Mr S as its investigation concluded that Mr S had authorised these 
payments. So overall, I dont believe TSB are doing anything wrong in asking Mr S to repay 
this.
So, after careful consideration and looking at everything, overall, Im not persuaded that the 
most likely explanation is as Mr S alleges that an unknown third-party, with his card and PIN carried out the transactions without his consent. I believe its more likely than not that this 
took place with Mr Ss involvement. I think on balance Mr S made or otherwise authorised 
the payments he disputes. Looking at the circumstances, I dont think TSB has acted unfairly 
in holding Mr S liable for these transactions, in taking the decision to close his account and 
placing a CIFAS marker against his name.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against TSB 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman