DRN-3860165
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim she 
made on her car insurance policy.
 
References to Advantage include its agents acting on its behalf. 
Mrs K is the policyholder and is represented by Mr S. For ease, Ive referred to comments 
made by Mr S as being made by Mrs K. 
What happened
Mrs K made a claim on her car insurance policy when she was in an accident. Advantage 
arranged for its engineers to recover the car from the accident site. However, the engineers 
said they couldnt recover it because of the position it was in. Advantage arranged for 
another agent, Ill call R, to recover the car. It said it was later told R hadnt recovered the 
vehicle as it wasnt at the site when it got there. Advantage wasnt sure of the cars location. 
It subsequently deemed the car a total loss and offered to settle the claim by paying the cars 
market value.
Mrs K complained about Advantages communication and because it didnt know where her 
car was. She was also unhappy with the delays in settling her claim.
Advantage acknowledged the communication Mrs K had with its agent wasnt smooth. It said 
there were delays in settling her claim, and it could have offered a blind valuation of the car 
sooner than it did because the car was likely to be a total loss due the severity of the 
damage. But it said the investigation into the location of the car was still on going. It paid  
Mrs K £125 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us. She also told us she feels she lost out because she 
would have kept the car and repaired it herself. Mrs K said she would like £10,000 in total 
which includes the settlement for the car and compensation. Our investigator thought the 
complaint should be upheld. He thought the car was likely to have been a total loss and it 
was reasonable for Advantage to pay the cars value. But he thought the delay to the claim 
was unreasonable and therefore, Advantage was responsible for the time Mrs K didnt have 
use of a car and the inconvenience she experienced. He also thought it would have been 
distressing to hear the car was missing. He said Advantage should increase its 
compensation and pay a total of £500.
Advantage thought the compensation our investigator suggested was too high. It said it was 
prompt in instructing R to recover the car when it received notification the car was likely a 
total loss. It said it would usually expect the process for a total loss claim to take around 14 
days but acknowledged a delay of around 3 to 4 weeks. It thinks £300 would be fairer 
compensation. 
Our investigator didnt agree, he said we would usually consider a payment of £10 per day 
reasonable to compensate for loss of use to consumer. He said Mrs K was without her car 
for 49 days from the date her car should have been picked up to the date payment was 
made. He thought Mrs K would therefore have been entitled to at least £490 compensation. 
Advantage still didnt accept our investigator opinion. It says £5 per day would be reasonable 
due to the fact Mrs K had social only cover. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for similar reasons.
Advantage acknowledges its communication with Mrs K could be better and it accepts there 
were delays in settling her claim. Its unfortunate but mistakes do happen, but when they do, 
Id expect Advantage to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in if the 
mistake hadnt happened. It should also fairly compensate for the impact it had on the 
consumer. Advantage settled the claim by paying the cars market value. It has offered to 
increase its compensation and pay Mrs K a total of £300. So, Ive thought about what 
happened and whether its done enough to put things right. Im not satisfied it has and Ill 
explain why. 
I looked at the photographs of the damage to Mrs Ks car and considered Advantages in-
house engineers opinion on the level of damage it had sustained. I also note the first 
recovery agent, who attended the site and saw the car after the accident, said in an email to 
Advantage, that they thought the car might be total loss. So, on balance, I think its more 
likely than not that the car would have been written off. Nevertheless, Ive thought about 
whether Mrs K has incurred a financial loss because of Advantages error.
When a car is written off, under the terms of Mrs Ks policy, Advantage must pay her the 
market value of the car at the time of the loss, less the policy excess. And the policy defines 
market value as: The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss 
or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition
Advantage said it carried out a blind valuation and valued the car £7,786. I appreciate Mrs K 
says she would have wanted to keep the car to repair it herself, but theres no guarantee that 
following the accident the car could have been repaired to a roadworthy state. It's also worth 
noting that if Mrs K opted to keep it, under the terms of the policy, Advantage would be 
entitled to deduct the cars salvage value from the settlement it paid her. 
Even if the car wasnt written off and had been economical to repair, by it paying the pre-
accident value, Advantage has in effect paid the cost of replacing it with a similar one. So, I 
dont think Mrs K has lost out financially. While its unfortunate that she didnt have the option 
to keep the car, Im satisfied its offered the next best alternative and I think thats fair.
The terms of the policy say You wont be eligible for a replacement car if your Car is stolen 
or considered to be a Total Loss/write-off and it also says Youll get a replacement car 
while your car is being repaired. Mrs Ks car wasnt being repaired at the time, and it was 
ultimately treated as a total loss, so I dont think Advantage had to provide her with a 
replacement car to use. 
That said, I dont find it recovered the car when it should have, and I say this because Mrs K 
logged her claim on 24 July and the garage tried to recover the car on 26 July, but R wasnt 
instructed to recover it until Mrs K phoned for an update on 28 July, which is four days after 
the incident was initially logged. Ive also considered that it was aware early on that the car was likely to be a written off and it didnt know where the car was. So, I agree with what it 
said, and I find it could have arranged a valuation of the car earlier than it did. Therefore, I 
think its right it compensates Mrs K for the time she was left without a car to use because of 
its actions. 
Mrs K says because she didnt have a car, she wasnt able to shop as she normally would, 
and she couldnt attend the gym, so her monthly membership was wasted during this period. 
So, Im satisfied being without a car restricted Mrs Ks daily life. I find Mrs K was without use 
of a car from 26 July 2022 (the date the garage first mentioned that the car might be written 
off and also the date the car should have been recovered), until the date the settlement was 
paid to her, on 13 September 2022. This means Mrs K was without use of a car for 49 days. 
I also think Advantage could have communicated better with Mrs K throughout the process. 
Ive reviewed its notes and I can see she phoned regularly for an update on her claim. And 
made several unsuccessful attempts to speak with the claims handler to find out what was 
happening with her car. She also phoned Advantage and its agents on multiple occasions to 
try to locate the car and I think this will have been frustrating. I also think it would have been 
upsetting for Mrs K to learn Advantage didnt know where the car was. 
Advantage thinks a rate of £5 per day is reasonable for the time Mrs K was without a car 
because she was only covered to use her car socially. But I dont agree, and I see no reason 
to depart from our usual approach. I find a rate of £10 per day is reasonable to compensate 
for the time Mrs K didnt have a car to use, and for the associated inconvenience of this and 
of dealing with the claim. And considering the customer service issues Ive mentioned 
above, I think the overall compensation of £500 that our investigator suggested is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reason I mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay a total of £500 compensation. Its already paid £125, therefore it 
should pay Mrs K an additional £375.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman