DRN-2550286
The complaint
D Ltd, represented by Mrs P, initially complained that Barclays Bank UK plc forced it to 
convert a business overdraft at 10.5% into a business loan at 20%. Mrs P later changed this, 
saying that the complaint was that Barclays didnt provide assistance during financial 
difficulties.
D Ltd wants more compensation than Barclays has offered.
 
What happened
 D Ltd had an overdraft facility of £16,000 on its Barclays account.  
In September 2012, Barclays wrote to say that D Ltd had exceeded its agreed overdraft limit, 
and that it would be at Barclays discretion whether or not to return unpaid any transactions 
which would increase this further. The letter said that interest would be charged on the 
unauthorised part of the overdraft at 29.5%. It said that if D Ltd required help it should 
contact its relationship manager or drop into any branch. 
By 15 January 2013, D Ltd had a debit balance of £18,041.37. The statement for that date 
shows that the overdraft rate was 10.49%, and the interest rate on the unauthorised 
borrowing over £16,000 was 29.5%. 
In February 2013, Barclays offered D Ltd a 10 year fixed term loan for the amount of the 
overdraft. The interest rate was 18.98% with monthly repayments around £342.24 When D 
Ltd drew down the loan, the existing overdraft was cancelled. 
In March 2019, D Ltd, represented by Mrs P, complained to Barclays. Mrs P said that she 
had been experiencing personal financial difficulties in 2012. She said the relationship 
manager had told her that D Ltd had to pay back the overdraft immediately, and as D Ltd 
had no other funds, it was forced to take out a loan with a high interest rate to cover the 
debt.
Barclays replied that in January 2013, its Business Collections team had asked for  
repayment of the £2,041.37 which exceeded the £16,000 overdraft limit. Barclays said its 
relationship manager had contacted D Ltd to discuss a loan restructure for this amount, but 
that Mrs P had said shed prefer to operate the account without an overdraft facility and had 
asked her to convert the offer into a loan for the full £18,000. Barclays also replied to a 
question about a £606.14 credit it had made in June 2018, which was part of a wider 
remediation programme.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied and sent a long letter to Barclays. Among other points, Mrs P said 
shed gone into debt management in May 2012. She said shed been forced restructuring the 
overdraft to the higher rate loan. Mrs P said the reason she hadnt contacted Barclays to talk 
about her financial difficulties was that Barclays relationship manager had known she was in 
financial difficulties since at least July 2012. 
Barclays reviewed the complaint, but didnt change its original decision. It gave referral rights 
to this service, and D Ltd, represented by Mrs P, complained to us.
Our investigator didnt initially uphold D Ltds complaint. She explained that businesses only 
have to keep information for six years, so it was hard to see exactly what had happened. But 
she pointed out that just before the loan, D Ltd had been incurring large fees as a result of 
the unauthorised overdraft  for example over £400 in November 2012 and over £500 in 
December 2012. So she considered that DF Ltd hadnt been able to manage the overdraft at 
the time, and the monthly repayments on the loan were less than D Ltd would have been 
paying. There was no evidence the loan had been forced on D Ltd, and Barclays had offered 
£473.70 compensation for times when it could have done more to help. And it hadnt applied 
any interest to the loan between August 2017 and April 2018, which had saved around 
£1,000.
D Ltd didnt agree, and Mrs P sent a long a detailed objection to the investigators view. In 
summary, she said that she wasnt complaining about the loan. She said she was 
complaining because she hadnt been given a chance to be assessed by Barclays financial 
difficulties team. She believed that team could have come up with different options, such as 
freezing charges and interest on D Ltds account. Mrs P also sent a copy of a personal Debt 
Management Plan which shed signed in April 2012.
The investigator said that although Mrs Ps agreement was for her personal debts, she 
thought it was more likely than not that Mrs P had told her relationship manager about it. The 
investigator said that a bank didnt have to offer a short-term plan as Mrs P had said. But she 
did think Barclays should have given further assistance, given that it was likely that it had 
known about Mrs Ps difficulties.
Barclays had paid Mrs P £473.70 for October 2013 to July 2018, when it felt it could have 
done more, and hadnt charged interest from August 2017 to April 2018, saving around 
£1,000. So the investigator said Barclays should apply the same logic for the period from 
April 2012 to October 2013, and calculate compensation accordingly. And it should discuss 
any alternatives it could, about the outstanding debt.
In its reply to the investigators view, Barclays commented that the previous refund had been 
a gesture of goodwill, and not a refund for an error, as its charges had been correctly based 
on usage of the account. It pointed out that Mrs Ps personal debts were legally different 
from D Ltds, and said that when Mrs P had been in touch with the relationship manager, she 
hadnt said the business was in financial difficulty. It had only been from the middle of 2012 
that D Ltd had regularly exceeded its overdraft. 
Barclays also said that although it could have done more to support D Ltd, it didnt agree that 
Mrs P had let Barclays know about the companys financial difficulties until Barclays 
restricted overdraft spending. It agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to refund the charges, but 
not interest, applied to the account between April 2012 and March 2013. It said that once the 
loan was provided, D Ltd had been provided with the support it was seeking. The figure was 
£2,054.32.
Barclays also pointed out that as D Ltd had already received two previous refunds on the 
loan account, as well as the period when no interest had been charged, this meant it would 
be in a better position than if D Ltd had paid all expected payments on time. 
D Ltd, represented by Mrs P, said this wasnt enough. Mrs P said it should have been done 
at the time, and if it had been, the amount she was paying for the cost of the loan could have 
been used to reduce her tax payments, and her personal debts. Mrs P said that shed been 
left in a worse position, not only in taking the loan with the higher rate of interest, but also because she could have paid other expenses and interest instead. Ms P said that she 
thought a fair amount of compensation would have been to refund the charges and loan 
expenses as if the loan had been £16,000, not £18,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks arent required to keep records for more than six years, and the key events in this 
complaint happened in 2012 and 2013. So its not clear exactly what both sides said before 
the 2013 loan, or when D Ltds officers told Barclays that it was in financial difficulties. Mrs P 
and her fellow company officer signed a personal debt management plan with a debt charity 
on 1 April 2012. Mrs P told this service there were three Barclaycard debts and 17 other card 
debts. 
As Ive set out above, Barclays said it didnt know that D Ltd  as opposed to Mrs P 
personally  was in financial difficulties until just before the loan. But I dont need to make a 
finding about the date, because Barclays has accepted it could have done more to support D 
Ltd.
In D Ltds initial complaint to this service, Mrs P said I would like to complain against 
Barclays who have mistreated me by forcing me to convert my business overdraft into a 
business loan from rate of 10.5% to a horrendous rate of 20% even though we were in 
financial difficulties. Mrs P later changed this, and said that she wasnt complaining that the 
loan had been mis-sold. She said that her complaint was that she hadnt had help when she 
needed it most, from May 2012 to October 2013. Ive therefore focused mainly on the period 
from May 2012 to October 2013. But for the avoidance of doubt, I note that in the months 
prior to the overdraft being changed to the loan, D Ltd was incurring charges and interest, 
properly calculated, which were higher than the subsequent loan. And there is also no 
evidence that D Ltd was forced to take the loan. So I dont consider the loan was mis-sold.
I have gone on to consider what would be fair compensation for Barclays acceptance that it 
could have provided more support to D Ltd.  I am not persuaded by D Ltds arguments about 
the compensation it should receive, and have set out below the individual elements of 
compensation.
- I find that the correct period for the relevant charges is April 2012 (applied 6 June 
2012) to March 2013 (applied 8 April 2013), when the loan was taken out. The loan 
meant lower costs for D Ltd, and Mrs P has now said that she isnt complaining about 
the loan. So I find that the end point for compensation should be March 2013 when 
the loan was taken out. Barclays has already paid D Ltd compensation for October 
2013 to July 2018. 
- I find that the charges during this period which should be refunded are those labelled 
Commission charges.  These total £2,054.32. These should be refunded in line 
with Barclays agreement that it could have done more to help D Ltd going back to 
April 2012.
-
- I find that it would not be fair or reasonable to order Barclays to refund interest 
charged on the overdraft. That was calculated on D Ltds debt, and even if D Ltd had 
replaced the overdraft with a loan earlier, D Ltd would still have had to pay interest on its debt  and that would have been at a higher interest rate. Interest rates reflect 
perceived risk to the lender. I do not consider Barclays need refund interest to D Ltd.
- I am not persuaded by Mrs Ps argument that the interest D Ltd was paying should 
have been used to lower her debt to HMRC and to her personal debts. D Ltd had 
borrowed the money; it was a company debt not a personal debt; and interest was 
charged under the terms and conditions of the account.
- For the avoidance of doubt, I would clarify that compensation for distress is not 
payable to a limited company.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I consider that the offer made by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC of £2,054.32 is fair and reasonable, and so thats what should be 
paid here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman