DRN-4344364
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the way Euroins AD (Euroins) dealt with and settled her claim.
What happened
Mrs H had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Euroins. She travelled abroad but had 
to cut her trip short due to the death of a close family member. 
Mrs H booked flights, returned home and submitted a claim. 
Mrs H complained to Euroins as she was unhappy with the delays in dealing with the claim 
and because Euroins asked for information she had already provided. She was also 
unhappy with the claim settlement. 
Euroins responded to the complaint and apologised for the delays but said it had correctly 
settled the claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint but didnt think Euroins had incorrectly settled the claim. 
Mrs H disagreed and said the conclusion had been reached without any reference to her or 
her dealings with the company and she also said her additional costs werent specifically 
excluded under the curtailment section of the policy and so should be paid. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be partially upheld. Ill explain why. 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 August 2023 in which I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly 
and fairly.
The curtailment section provides cover in the event Mrs H has to cut her trip short and under 
the section what you are covered for it says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance
And so I am satisfied that only prepaid costs are covered. There is no provision for additional 
costs incurred. I think the term is clear that it pays unused costs and (my emphasis) Mrs H 
cant get a full refund if she cuts her trip short. It doesnt say Euroins will pay unused costs or 
(my emphasis) it will pay a financial loss if a trip is cut short. The financial loss has to relate 
to the unused costs. 
But I dont think Euroins dealt with the claim promptly, as it is required to do and this caused 
Mrs H inconvenience and stress. 
Mrs H submitted her claim and received an auto acknowledgement which said she should 
hear back within 6 weeks but she had to chase for a response when she didnt hear back 
after 6 weeks. 
Additionally, Euroins asked Mrs H for information about her return flight which she had 
already provided. 
Finally, Euroins asked for medical information which, if it had been requested earlier, could 
have saved Mrs H time and inconvenience. 
Overall, I think Euroins should compensate Mrs H for not adhering to its own timescales and 
not providing an update. This meant Mrs H had to chase for a response. I think £150 
compensation is appropriate due to the length of the delay and the inconvenience caused. I 
dont think the issue was long lasting and so I dont think a higher compensation award is 
appropriate.
Euroins didnt respond. Mrs H responded and in summary, she has said she would like more 
compensation as she had to chase for the claim to be dealt as quickly as it was. She feels 
she was ignored and Euroins tried to dismiss her claim and it was only due to her 
persistence that a payment was finally made. This was all at a time when she was grieving.
Mrs H submitted her claim on 25 July and received payment on 10 November. Although I 
accept Euroins could have done more to deal with the claim quicker, it is still entitled to 
investigate and verify a claim so this inevitably would have still taken a number of weeks. As 
Mrs H had to chase, that is what I am directing compensation for. Euroins should have 
progressed matters without being chased. Im sorry to hear of the sad circumstances in 
which Mrs H had to make her claim. And while I have considered the additional and 
unnecessary stress caused to Mrs H at a time she was grieving, Euroins can only be held 
responsible for the unnecessary delays it caused. So I still think £150 is a reasonable 
amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint and direct Euroins AD to pay 
Mrs H £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman