DRN-3395988
The complaint
Mr W complains that he got poor service from UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and its agent 
when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W made a claim for a damaged windscreen on 23 June 2021. Initially he wasnt happy 
that the policy didnt cover the cost of manufacturer-branded glass, and he said he hadnt 
received promised calls from UKIs agent. But by 10 August 2021 Mr W had agreed that 
standard glass could be used, and the agent waived the £75 policy excess. 
Mr W agreed to the work being done on 19 August 2021, but on that day the glass was 
found to be misshapen and had to be reordered. Mr W says he found new scratches on the 
car (caused by the agent) that day - and that he drew them to the agents attention.
The next available appointment was on 1 September 2021. The technician found that the 
new glass was damaged - but the work was still done later that day, using other glass. The 
agent offered Mr W compensation for the failed appointment and said it would investigate 
the scratches. UKI told Mr W it thought the agent had handled the situation well, but it 
recognised that he hadnt had a good experience, so it offered him £50 compensation. It said 
the agent would be contacting Mr W directly about the scratches. The agent told him on 21 
September 2021 that the scratches were recorded by a technician on 19 August 2021 in a 
video (and a report) before work on the car began, so they were pre-existing. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint. Mr W told him hed declined an offer of 
£100 compensation from the agent, as it wasnt enough. He also said it hadnt sent him the 
video evidence. The investigator said he couldnt see anything on the file to show that Mr W 
had been offered £100  but that there was a record on it of the agent having sent the video 
evidence to Mr W. He thought UKI had acted reasonably in offering Mr W £50. 
 
As Mr W queried some of the details UKI had sent us, the investigator checked the relevant 
facts. UKI confirmed that the new glass had arrived with the agent on 31 August 2021 (which 
Mr W disputed). It also provided a call recording of Mr W being told at the time that the glass 
had arrived the previous day. UKI said the video was taken on 19 August 2021, but that the 
date on the technicians device had been deleted, given the time that had elapsed. It 
provided a copy of the pre-inspection report from 19 August 2021, which recorded that there 
were scratches on the car before the agent began any work on it. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W is making a complaint, its for him to show that its justified. I can only base my 
decision on the available evidence and on what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr W suspects that the video was recorded after the agent damaged the car, especially as 
the date of the recording cant be shown. But the pre-inspection report dated 19 August 2021 
also shows that scratches were found in several places before the work was started. In my 
opinion, it isnt significant that the technicians device no longer shows the date of the 
recording, given the time that has passed. The video shows where the damage was found, 
and in my opinion, its unlikely the technician would have come into contact with those areas. 
Mr W thinks he should have been shown the video when he complained about the damage. 
Instead, the technician said hed refer the issue to customer services. I can see why Mr W 
has raised this point, but we cant interfere with the agents process for dealing with 
customer concerns. I dont think it shows that the agent acted in a misleading way. 
In my opinion, there were no unreasonable delays in offering Mr W appointments. I can see 
it would have been frustrating for him when the work had to be postponed. But it seems the 
technician only realised the glass was misshapen after he started to try to fit it at the first 
appointment. Theres nothing to show that the glass wasnt ordered in time before each of 
the appointments, as Mr W suspects. And it wouldnt have been in the agents interests not 
to ensure that was the case, as rearranging appointments ties up its resources.
I think it would have been preferable for the glass to have been checked prior to the second 
appointment. Presumably, the technician would have noted the damage to it immediately. 
But in the end, I think it made little difference, as the agent managed to source new glass 
and complete the work on the same day, thereby minimising Mr Ws extra inconvenience. 
Its clear that Mr W had a poor experience overall after making his claim. But I think UKI and 
its agent acted reasonably in acknowledging that he wasnt happy (regardless of blame). 
And they tried to put matters right by waiving the policy excess and offering Mr W financial 
compensation. 
Mr W said recently that UKI didnt comply with some of the regulations set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority for treating customers fairly. I cant see any breaches based on 
the information Ive seen. Mr W hasnt provided specific details of what he thinks the 
breaches were. And as far as I can see, the issue wasnt raised with UKI as part of his initial 
complaint, so Im unable to comment further on it anyway.  
 
Whilst I understand that Mr W was disappointed with the way the claim was handled, I dont 
think hes shown that UKI or its agent acted unreasonably, so I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman