DRN-4279077
The complaint
Mr K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) delayed the
refund of an overpayment hed made to his credit card account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint recently. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint AESEL, but I think there were unnecessary delays returning Mr Ks
overpayment to him. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When Mr K overpaid on his credit card account in October 2022 AESEL explained they
would need details of the account the money was paid from so they could return the money
there. I dont think that was unreasonable as AESEL have explained thats now their process
to ensure the payee receives the money.
I can see that AESEL wrote to Mr K in late October 2022 to explain that. In the letter they
explained that it would take up to ten days to refund the money when they had received the
information.
In AESELs final response to Mr K on 6 January 2023 they agreed, as a one off exception, to
send him a cheque for the overpayment. I think that was a fair response in the
circumstances. AESEL have subsequently explained to this Service that was a mistaken
offer and I can therefore understand Mr Ks frustration. I think he could have expected the
payment to be made within 10 days of receiving that letter.
But Mr K and AESEL have explained the payment wasnt made until July 2023 and I think
Mr K has therefore been kept waiting too long.
AESEL should have made the payment ten days after their final response and Mr K has
therefore, been deprived of that money. AESEL should therefore pay him 8% interest on that
refund calculated from 16 January 2023 until the date the payment reached Mr Ks account
(4 July 2023).
I think Mr K has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of AESELs actions as
hes explained hes had difficulty making payments towards his other bills while hes been
without that cash, and hes also had to make further submissions to this Service when his
money wasnt returned. In the circumstances I think AESEL should pay him £50 in
compensation.
Mr K chose to close his AESEL account and as a result he appears to have lost out on some
cash back that would otherwise have been payable. I dont think it would be fair to ask
AESEL to refund that as it was Mr Ks decision to close his account, and I dont think that
was necessary in order to settle his complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell American
Express Services Europe Limited to:
Pay Mr K 8% simple interest per year on the refund from 16 January 2023 to 4 July
2023.
Pay Mr K £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions
have caused.
Further comments
AESEL and Mr K accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not therefore found reason to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
My provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell American Express Services 
Europe Limited to:
Pay Mr K 8% simple interest per year on the refund from 16 January 2023 to 4 July
2023.
Pay Mr K £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions
have caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman