DRN-2935706
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has removed his telephone 
banking application.
What happened
Mr B says he lives abroad and has used his RBS telephone banking application (app) for 
some time without issue. He says RBS has removed the availability of the app in the country 
he lives in without providing any notice or consultation. Mr B says as a result he has bought 
a laptop to use online banking which he would like RBS to pay for. And he would like RBS to 
restore the access.
RBS accepts it told Mr B that it no longer offered the app in his country of residence but 
accepts that was a mistake which its apologised for. It says the app was never available in 
that country and Mr B can use other methods of banking. RBS says it will not pay for the 
laptop costs.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought RBS was entitled to make a commercial decision on such matters and so wasnt 
obliged to consult with Mr B. The investigator also thought Mr B could use other methods of 
banking, but accepted RBS had made a mistake by suggesting the app had been withdrawn. 
The investigator didnt think it fair to order RBS to pay for the laptop cost.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary says the service was available then 
withdrawn and says other methods of banking are difficult to use due to the delays and says 
there is a cost involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
It is not clear why Mr B was able to use the banking app when RBS says it wasnt available 
in the country, he lives in. But Im satisfied that RBS clearly intended that it wasnt available. 
Im also satisfied that its up to RBS to decide when exercising its commercial judgement on 
such matters and is not something I can fairly interfere in. I appreciate RBS made a mistake 
and told Mr B that the app was no longer available. I dont think that mistake justifies 
compensation and think RBS has fairly apologised for it.
As Im satisfied that app was never intended for the country Mr B lives in, then I dont think 
RBS ought reasonably to have consulted with Mr B. I have made clear that even if RBS did 
offer the app then it would be fully entitled to withdraw it if it made a business decision to do 
so without consulting with its customers about such matters. I find such matters would be 
commercial decisions. We are not RBSs regulator and so its not our role to either punish it 
or recommend that it allows Mr B the use of the app.
Overall, I cant fairly order RBS do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint 
and cant fairly order RBS pay for the cost of Mr Bs laptop. I appreciate Mr B will have 
unanswered questions about how he was able to use the app in a country its not available 
in, but I hope he appreciates that is not something I can answer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman