DRN-3670095
Complaint
Mr A has complained about loans Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been provided with 
these loans.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr A with a first loan for £1,000.00 in September 2014. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £76.64. In October 2014, Mr A was 
provided with a second loan for £1,000.00. This loan also had a 24-month term and had 
monthly repayments of £80.17.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr A and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr A could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Mr A with loans for £1,000.00 in September 2014 and October 
2014. These loans were due to be repaid in 24 instalments of £76.64 and £80.17 
respectively. 118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr As application after he provided details of 
his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of 
this information showed Mr A could to comfortably make the repayments he was committing 
to. On the other hand, Mr A has said he had been made redundant and was in financial 
difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr A and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided the output of Mr As 
applications. It looks like Mr A submitted these applications with different first names and 
different email addresses. And 118 118 Money didnt reconcile the two applications as a 
result of this. Given different details were used in the applications and Im required to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I cant reasonably hold 118 118 Money 
responsible for this.
In any event, 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Mr A had existing commitments 
but they were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr As 
debt total at the time of the applications was reasonable in comparison to his income and 
they appeared to be relatively well managed. 
I accept that Mr As actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. Equally I accept that if 
118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Mr A appears to be saying it should have 
 such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it may 
have reached a different answer, although weve not been provided with this information. 
But the key here is that 118 118 Money wasnt providing Mr A with a mortgage. It was 
providing loans for relatively small sums. Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances 
here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended further  especially where, in any event, we havent been 
provided with anything which clearly demonstrates that the loans were obviously 
unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr A - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr A used slightly different details. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman