DRN-3316207
The complaint
Mr G1 and Mr G2 have complained that ARAG Allgemeine Versicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft  
acted unfairly when it declined their legal expenses insurance claim.
For the sake of clarity when I mention ARAG in this decision I mean both the underwriter and 
any agent acting on its behalf. 
Background
Mr G1 and Mr G2 have a legal expenses insurance policy with ARAG. In April 2020 Mr G1 
and Mr G2 contacted ARAG to make a claim under their policy as a boundary dispute had 
occurred between them and their neighbours, which also included a dispute for nuisance.
Once aware of the claim ARAG passed Mr G1 and Mr G2s information and associated 
paperwork to a third-party solicitors firm to consider the merits of the claim, whether or not it 
was covered under the policy and the likelihood of success. 
When this review was completed the solicitors contacted Mr G1 and Mr G2 to confirm that 
the issues within their claim werent covered under their legal expenses policy which meant 
that if they decided to pursue it they would have to cover the associated legal costs 
themselves. 
Unhappy Mr G1 and Mr G2 complained to ARAG saying it was unfair that their claim was 
declined. ARAG considered the complaint but agreed with the solicitors confirming that the 
claim wasnt covered under the policys terms and conditions and so it wouldnt cover the 
costs of the linked legal fees. 
Mr G1 and Mr G2 then brought their complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into their complaint already. She agreed with the findings of ARAG and said that the 
business hadnt behaved unfairly when it declined the claim as the policy didnt provide 
cover for boundary disputes. So, she didnt uphold their complaint.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint again and so it has been passed to me for consideration. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with the investigators findings and dont think ARAG acted 
unreasonably when it declined Mr G1 and Mr G2s complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to them and so I have set out my reasons below for clarification.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 have said that the reason ARAG have declined their claim is because it 
didnt think it would be successful in court. However, ARAG has clarified that this isnt the 
reason the claim was declined instead explaining it was declined because it wasnt covered 
under the policys terms and conditions. 
In order to clarify this point its necessary to consider how a legal expenses claim is reviewed 
when it is submitted to an underwriter. In the first instance the claim will likely be sent to a 
third-party solicitors firm for review. This is because often (although not always) the 
underwriter wont have in house solicitors reviewing these sorts of claims but rather will have 
a number of panel solicitor firms it works with that it can forward legal expenses claims to 
for specialist consideration.
The solicitors then consider the particulars of the claim and whether or not the linked policy 
provided by the underwriter, covers the issues in the claim. If they find the policy doesnt 
provide cover the claim will stop there and be declined. 
If the solicitors do think the policy provides cover, they will then consider whether or not 
there is a 51% chance of success if the policy holder proceeds to bring the claim to court. If 
there is less than 51% chance the claim will win at court, the claim will be declined. This is 
because the underwriter is allowed to mitigate the risk of having to pay for legal fees in a 
case that was unlikely to win.
If a claim passes both of the above tests, so the underwriter is sure the policy provides the 
necessary cover and there is a reasonable chance of success at court, the claim will be 
approved. 
In the case of Mr G1 and Mr G2, when the solicitors reviewed the policy wording in relation 
to boundary disputes it stated that cover would be provided where:
A dispute relating to material property which You own or is Your responsibility
(a) following an event which causes physical damage to Your material property
(b) following a public or private nuisance or trespass
(c) which You wish to recover or repossess from an Employee or ex-Employee
However, in this case neither Mr G1 nor Mr G2 own the property that the boundary dispute 
relates to and they have no legal responsibility over it. When they brought the complaint to 
ARAG they did believe the land was theirs as its adjacent to land they do own, but during 
the course of its review the solicitors confirmed this wasnt the case. And so, the claim was 
declined on that basis. 
Having reviewed all the communication between Mr G1, Mr G2, the panel solicitors and 
ARAG Ive found no evidence to indicate that the claim was declined because the underlying 
issue had a less than 51% prospect of success at court. 
Therefore having reviewed the policy in full and considered the nature of the boundary issue 
that was at the centre of Mr G1 and Mr G2s legal expenses claim, I agree that the policy 
didnt provide them with cover in this instance and so I dont think ARAG acted unreasonably 
when it declined the claim and I wont be asking it to do any more in relation to the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr G1 and Mr G2s complaint against ARAG 
Allgemeine Versicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G1 and Mr G2 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman