DRN-3740202
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G are unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s 
handling of a subsidence claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to RSA include its appointed agents.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs G feel that aspects of this complaint should be directed to the 
seller of the policy, but as the underwriter, RSA is ultimately responsible for deciding and 
handling their claim. And RSA are clearly defined as such in the policy documents. So, Ill be 
referring to RSA throughout my decision.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended it not be upheld. They 
concluded RSA had dealt with the claim fairly in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. In summary they said:
RSAs cash settlement didnt cover all their internal repair costs.
RSA hasnt covered the external damage to their patio under a separate claim for 
subsidence damage.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I note Mr and Mrs G have made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to our service for 
the information we hold about them. And I appreciate there will be delays in providing 
this. Ive taken this into account when considering this complaint and I dont think    
Mr and Mrs G receiving the SAR will have any impact on the outcome of this 
complaint. Im satisfied Ive seen everything I need to in order to arrive at a relevant 
and fair outcome.
In March 2022, RSA offered to pay Mr and Mrs G around £12,000 (net of all previous 
payments and net of the policy excess). This was in full and final settlement of, and 
discharge of the balance payable under the policy  in respect of the claim they 
notified RSA of in August 2020. In May 2022, RSA made a further offer of around 
£650 to cover some tiling. And Mr and Mrs G accepted those offers.
While I understand Mr and Mrs G have said the settlement isnt enough to get the 
works done, Im not satisfied that there is any proper basis to say that they shouldnt 
be bound by the settlements.
Any issues with the reinstatement work following the settlement would be the 
responsibility of Mr and Mrs Gs contractor unless it can be shown that RSAs 
subsequent conduct led to further damage which it may be liable for under the policy 
terms.
Overall, having considered everything carefully, Im not persuaded that the time 
taken by RSA to investigate the cause of damage and determine the scope of works 
contributed to any additional damage which can be considered separate or outside 
the terms of the settlement Mr and Mrs G have already received.
I say this because of the conclusions drawn in RSAs loss adjusters report. RSAs 
loss adjuster based their findings on evidence provided by Mr and Mrs Gs contractor 
and stated, expectations from the contractor wasfar more reaching than was 
required to reinstate to pre loss condition. In essence, this included a full strip out of 
the kitchen units and fitted appliances.
The loss adjuster stated, Subsidence related damage is relatively minor within this 
propertysome kitchen units need to be removed to address the repairs to the rear 
extension floor and walls. However this can be carefully removedthe broken wall 
tile in the kitchen is not subs relatedExternal brickwork cracking is very minimal 
(under 5mm) a Heli bar system is not required. Rake and repoint and brick stich is 
requiredLounge double timber doors can be adjusted to fitA self-levelling 
compound is to be used on top of current concrete slabany services within floor 
should not be disturbed.
Taking everything into account, Im more persuaded by the loss adjusters 
conclusions that the damage linked to subsidence didnt require a full strip out to the 
extent Mr and Mrs Gs contractor proposed. And Ive not seen anything firm to refute 
this.
Therefore, I find RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in paying for items which have 
been shown to be damaged as a result of subsidence. And Im satisfied the scope of 
works fairly reflects the quality and value of pre-loss items claimed for.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy didnt cover them for things such as matching sets when they 
made the claim, so I cannot fairly require RSA to pay anything towards the 
undamaged kitchen units. Its not been shown they all needed to be removed, and so 
I find any issues with reinstating the units and appliances are more likely to be 
because of poor workmanship, as opposed to subsidence damage.
For the same reasons, I find RSA fairly declined a further payment towards a door 
and frame. The loss adjusters notes show that the original threshold was 
undamaged, and the issue was with the floor level dropping, causing the door to jam. 
So, Im not persuaded the entire door and frame needed replacing as a result of 
subsidence damage.Mr and Mrs G say RSAs settlement doesnt take into account the damage to the 
patio. Ive checked their policy terms, which exclude, Damage to patios, drives, 
walls, fences, hedges and gates  unless your home is damaged by the same cause 
and at the same time.
RSAs reports have shown the patio was damaged by settlement caused by 
neighbouring tree roots, and not by the same cause which caused Mr and Mrs Gs 
property to subside. So, I think RSA has fairly relied on this exclusion to turn down 
this part of their claim.
I note Mr and Mrs G have recently raised concerns to our service regarding further 
cracking at their property. This falls outside of the scope of the complaint referred to 
our service. Therefore, Mr and Mrs G will need to raise this issue with RSA in the first 
instance and if they remain unhappy with its response, then our service will consider 
the issue as a separate matter to this complaint.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman