DRN-3304471
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE unreasonably increased the premium 
payable for her pet policy.
Mrs S is represented by her husband Mr S but for simplicitys sake I shall just refer to Mrs S 
throughout. 
What happened
Mrs S policy is a lifetime policy to provide cover for her dog. She said the premium has risen 
by 97% for several years which she thinks is unsustainable. She believes this is trapping her 
into this policy. And is of the view that its bullying her to go elsewhere which would mean no 
ongoing cover for her dogs chronic illness. These increases exceed the claims made also.
When she complained HDI acknowledged the premium increases and explained why they 
had occurred. It also acknowledged that when Mrs S first bought the policy, it hadnt 
explained how premiums for lifetime cover might increase. It acknowledged that this meant 
Mrs S couldnt have made a fully informed decision. For that reason, it paid her £350 
compensation. 
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with that as she wanted HDI to ensure the annual premium would be 
affordable and fair and equitable. So, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator was 
of the view that HDI had done enough. Mrs S didnt agree so her complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not uphold this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I do appreciate and understand how disappointed Mrs S will be with my decision
However, this service isnt the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority is. So, that means 
we have no authority under our rules to challenge how insurers decide to set premiums for 
these lifetime pet policies. Thats the role of the regulator not us. So, I have no authority to 
do the sort of challenging approach on the industrys practices to include HDI, that Mrs S has 
mentioned she would like me to do 
Insurers are fully entitled to decide what risks they want to cover and what they dont. They 
are also fully entitled to decide what price to set the premium at too. Market forces operate to 
regulate this to a large degree as of course if they or a particular insurer get it wrong, their 
product isnt attractive to consumers. But essentially, its a matter for their own commercial 
discretion. Thats not something this service gets involved with because we are not 
regulator, as I explained above.
However, this service does consider that its reasonable that insurers of these lifetime 
policies to include HDI, should explain how the premium of these policies can increase as 
the pet get older. Im satisfied that HDI recognised that it didnt do this at the time Mrs S took 
out her policy in 2016 and merely started to mention in the 2020 renewal. And consequently, 
it paid her £350 compensation. I consider its right that it paid her compensation and that the 
amount of compensation is fair and reasonable. It is of an amount I would have awarded for 
this failing, had HDI not already done so. 
Theres no evidence to show me that if HDI has explained things more clearly when Mrs S 
bought her policy in 2016, that she would have done anything different. Its clear from what 
she said she wanted her dog covered under this type of lifetime policy. More so now given 
her dog has developed a chronic ongoing condition. Since all the providers who offer this 
type of policy generally operate in the same manner where premiums do increase as the pet 
gets older, like the investigator I consider it unlikely Mrs S would have chosen another 
provider, given there would no doubt the premium initially would have been much lower, as 
of course it could have been much higher.
We also seek to ensure a policyholder such as Mrs S hasnt been singled out and treated 
any differently or unfairly. As the investigator explained, precisely how any one insurer 
decides to set the pricing of the premium is commercially sensitive, and as such cannot be 
shared with Mrs S or put into the public domain given that we publish our decisions. 
However, HDI has shown us how Mrs S premium increases were calculated and that such 
risk factors would apply to anyone in Mrs S situation. So, there is no evidence she had been 
singled out or treated unfairly.  
Further as the investigator explained, these lifetime pet policies are more expensive because 
they continue to cover medical condition for the life of the pet, unlike annual policies which 
would seek to exclude an ongoing condition after 12 months. Premiums also rise as vet 
treatment becomes more complex and expensive as the development in vet treatments 
expand.
So taking everything into account, given HDI recognised it should have explained things 
better in 2016, I dont consider there is anything more I should require it to do, given I have 
no authority or remit to investigate matters as Mrs S wishes me to do. As I said above that 
remains in the remit of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman