DRN-3922582
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has rejected a claim for the cost of treatment for her pet dog on the ground that the 
treatment was for a pre-existing condition which is excluded by her policy.
References to C&G include its agents and administrators.
What happened
Mrs C insured her pet dog, who Ill refer to as M, with C&G on 27 April 2022.
 
According to her medical history, M attended her vet (Vet 1) on 17 March 2022, before Mrs 
C took out the policy. The vets notes record Faeces soft and some mucus.
 
A further visit to the vet took place on 3 May 2022, after the start of the policy but within 10 
days thereafter. This was for dental treatment, but the vets notes record loose stools 
again. Mrs C was given a home faecal sample pot and told that if this continued, she should 
make another appointment.
On 20 May 2022 M was returned to Vet 1 because of stomach gurgling and poo slimey. 
The vets notes record Still mucus in faeces. Ms notes on 2 June 2022 mention small 
amount of fresh blood in faeces. 
Mrs C submitted a claim to C&G for the consultations with Vet I. The claim form, completed 
by Vet 1, stated that it was for the treatment of Borborygmi (stomach rumbling) and vomiting, 
and that the date this was first noticed was 17 March 2022.
Mrs C then transferred Ms treatment to a specialist vet (Vet 2), who continued to investigate 
what was causing Ms stool issues. The entry on 17 June says month soft 
faeces/diarrhoea. Her condition was finally diagnosed on 22 June 2022 as suspected 
chronic enteropathy (food intolerance). Mrs C has also claimed for the cost of investigations 
by Vet 2.
C&G declined Mrs Cs claims on the basis that Ms symptoms had started before her policy 
start date and were present within the first 10 days of cover and were therefore excluded by 
the policy terms. The relevant terms of the policy state:
The following exclusions apply to the entire policy and each section of cover. We will 
not pay:
Any pre-existing conditions or any claims costs relating to the applicable 
waiting period as listed in the Schedule.
Pre-existing condition'' means any injury. Illness or behavioural disorder that your pet 
had symptoms of, received treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months 
before your policy start date with [C&G].
Your policy does not cover;
 Accidents that occur in the first 24 hours of your policy start date with [C&G];
 Any other claims  that occur in the first 10 days of your policy start date with [C&G]:
 Any Injuries, Illnesses or behavioural disorders that your pet showed symptoms of, 
received treatment medication or advice for in the 24 months before taking out your 
first policy with us.
Mrs C maintains that the treatment M received in March 2022 was due to her scavenging 
and that this had fully resolved until the next episode on 20 May 2022 which Mrs C considers 
to be a separate condition. 
Vet 1 initially  said that the episode in March 2022 couldve been caused by something else 
as there was a gap in treatment from March until May. However C&G identified that on 3 
May 2022 M had been seen by the vet again. Mrs C says this was for a dental check- up, but 
the entry in Ms notes also says loose stools again. In C&Gs view this is evidence that 
symptoms were present within 10 days of the policy start date, and therefore the condition 
was excluded by the terms of Mrs Cs policy. 
Vet 1 was asked to comment on this. It stated that it wasnt able to say that the symptoms 
noted on 3 May were unrelated to those that followed and Ms subsequent diagnosis of 
chronic enteropathy.
As she was dissatisfied with C&Gs rejection of her claims, Mrs C brought her complaint to 
this service. Our investigators view was that the symptoms M suffered from towards the end 
of May 2022 couldnt be ruled out as being linked to symptoms from early May. Vet 1 had 
been unable to state that the symptoms were unrelated. He explained that he was 
persuaded by what Vet 1 had said. 
As Mrs C doesnt agree with our investigators view her complaint has been referred to me 
as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear that M has been so unwell, but what we at this service have to consider is 
whether or not an insurer has acted unfairly or unreasonably when declining a claim. This 
will involve considering whether any exclusion within the policy has been fairly applied.
Ive therefore looked at the terms of Mrs Cs policy. Its clear from this that it doesnt cover 
claims that occur within the first 10 days of a policys start date or for the treatment of any 
illness that a pet shows symptoms of or received treatment medication or advice for in the 24 
months before the policy start date.
Ive also looked at Ms medical notes and the claim form provided by Vet 1.
I think theres evidence that signs of faecal issues began on 17 March 2022 with the vets 
note on that date of Faeces soft and some mucus. This was followed by loose stools 
again on 3 May. The entry on 20 May says still mucus in faeces.
Mrs C says that the issue in March was a separate matter that resolved itself and wasnt 
connected to the subsequent faecal problems which M visited the vet for from 20 May. But 
that isnt the view of Vet 1, who cant say that they are unrelated. Its reasonable for C&G to place reliance on what is recorded by vets in a pets medical 
history and what it is told by a vet. Mrs C has at various points referred to M having picked 
up a bug / had gastroenteritis / eaten an old roll. She relies on these to separate the cause of 
Ms condition after 20 May to the cause of her condition in March/early May. But this isnt 
reflected in the notes or either Vet 1 or Vet 2 neither of which make any reference to any of 
the explanations provided by Mrs C or suggest any other intervening causes which might 
break the connection between Ms faecal issues in late May/June with those in March/early 
May. 
Vet 1 has not specifically said that the late May/early June issue was connected to the issue 
noted in March/early May, as no faecal samples were taken in March which could have been 
comparted with those taken in late May. But nor has it said that they are unrelated.
My conclusion therefore is that given the medical evidence and the view of Vet 1, C&G has 
not acted unreasonably in concluding that the symptoms M displayed on 3 May 2022, within 
the first 10 days of the policy term, were related to those from 20 May onwards which were 
ultimately diagnosed as chronic enteropathy. I would have no basis for concluding that the 
conditions were unrelated, as Mrs C says they are, when a vet isnt able to do so.
In my view the policy exclusion has been fairly and reasonably applied and C&G hasnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Cs claims. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman