DRN-2331215
The complaint
X and Mr S complain about National House-Building Councils handling of a claim made 
under their buildings warranty policy.
What happened
X And Mr S have a warranty with NHBC which provides cover for damage to their house.
Theyve have had on-going problems with the render on the outside of their house. NHBC 
first carried out repairs in 2012. They also agreed, in 2013, to pay for replacement of 
incorrectly installed windows at the house.
In 2016, X and Mr S reported rainwater leaking into some of the rooms in the house. They 
say it took NHBC four months to agree that they should replace the render to the front and 
left side of the building.
In short, X and Mr S say those repairs have not been carried out effectively. Work is still 
ongoing. There have been a number of attempts to replace the render which have been 
unsuccessful. And, in carrying out the work, the contractors appointed by NHBC caused 
further damage to the property.
In response to complaints from X and Mr S over this period of time, NHBC have offered a 
total of £1,100 in compensation for X and Mr Ss trouble and upset.
X and Mr S werent happy with this outcome and so brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think NHBC had done anything wrong. He thought the 
compensation they offered X and Mr S was fair and reasonable.
X and Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But because I came to 
that conclusion for slightly different and more detailed reasons, I decided to issue a 
provisional decision before I make my final decision. 
This allowed both parties an opportunity to comment on my thinking and/or provide further 
information or evidence before I make my final decision, which is the Financial Ombudsman 
Services last word on the matter.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I neednt go into any great detail about the issues with X and Mr Ss house over the 
past few years. Theres no dispute here that NHBC should repair the damage to the 
house. NHBC have accepted the claim and they are attempting to get the required 
works carried out successfully. NHBC also accept they need to put right the damage 
caused to the property by their previous contractors.
I do think I need to recognise though the fact that what might have been a relatively 
simple repair to the render at the property has taken more than four years  since the 
recurring problems were brought to NHBCs attention in 2016  and was still not 
completed at the time of X and Mr Ss complaint.
Ive also seen photographs of the damage caused to X and Mr Ss house by previous 
contractors attempting to replace the render. To be blunt, the house was very far 
from being left in an acceptable state after the work had been carried out.
So, I can fully understand X and Mr Ss frustration and anger about the way their 
claim has been handled. There are long delays in getting the work completed. And 
the service provided by NHBCs contractors has been unsatisfactory, to say the least.
My decision here isnt about whether NHBC should cover the repairs  or put right 
the damage caused by their contractors. They should  and theres no dispute about 
that. Its simply about the size of the compensation which should be awarded to X 
and Mr S for their trouble and upset.
First of all, I ought to be clear about the period of time I can consider in this decision. 
Im aware X and Mr S first experienced issues with the render  and their windows  
in 2012- 2013. These issues appeared to be resolved to everyones satisfaction until 
X and Mr S discovered the water ingress in 2016.
According to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
rules, which govern the way we look into complaints, we can only consider 
complaints brought to us within six years of the relevant events  or, if its later, within 
three years of the complainant becoming aware of their cause for complaint (or 
reasonably being expected to have been aware of it).
So, I cant consider here the original claim in 2012 or any issues X and Mr S may 
have with that. What Im looking at is the way NHBC handled the claim made in 2016 
 after the water ingress was discovered and the render was again found to be 
defective.
I also have a limit on what I can consider at the other end of the relevant period. 
Again, the DISP rules only allow us to look into things the relevant business has had 
a chance to consider and respond to.
So, anything thats happened after NHBC sent their response to X and Mr Ss 
complaint to them, in September 2019, is outside the scope of this decision. If X and 
Mr S feel they have further cause for complaint after that point  and I know their discussions with NHBC, and indeed the work at the house, are still on-going  they 
can make a new complaint to NHBC.
So, to be clear, Im considering whether the £1,100 in total offered by NHBC is 
sufficient and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset suffered by X and 
Mr S between April 2016  when their claim was made to NHBC  and September 
2019  when NHBC finalised their response to the complaint X and Mr S made to 
them.
The delays, errors, shoddy work and additional damage to the house during that 
three and a half year period have undoubtedly caused X and Mr S a great degree of 
inconvenience, upset and stress. I can entirely understand that X and Mr S feel 
theyve had to constantly report issues to NHBC and/or their contractors and justify 
their requests for effective and timely repairs to be carried out.
However, I dont think £1,100 in total is unreasonable or unfair compensation for the 
degree of trouble and upset X and Mr S have suffered during that time.
We regard compensation awards between £500 and £2,000 as substantial  and 
appropriate in cases where, for example, a complainant has been caused 
considerable distress and inconvenience. Awards above £2,000 are fair and 
reasonable in severe cases, where the complainant may have experienced, for 
example, a reduction in their living standards or long-term distress as a result of the 
mistakes made by the business.
As I say, I have no doubt that X and Mr S suffered considerable inconvenience and 
upset during the relevant period. But I dont think I have any evidence to suggest 
their long-term standard of living was affected or that theyve yet suffered long-term 
distress.
I also take into account here that the house appears not to be the address at which X 
and Mr S were permanently living for at least some of the relevant period of time. 
They had NHBC send correspondence to a separate address a considerable 
distance from the house in question. So, they appear not to have had to cope with 
the disruption caused by living in a house with on-going building work over a 
prolonged period.
X and Mr S say they intended to sell the house when the repairs were complete. 
They say that at one point, NHBC told them this would be no later than June 2018. 
They say an estate agent suggested they market the house at that time at £650,000. 
A later estate agents valuation  in August 2019  put the value of the house at 
£500,000. They want NHBC to compensate them for the fall in value.
They also say they intended to invest the proceeds of the sale in an overseas 
investment with a guaranteed return at 4% per annum. Changes in the value of the 
pound against the overseas currency mean that theyve effectively lost 22% of the 
value of their investment were they to make it now. And they want NHBC to 
compensate them for those projected losses.
There are two main reasons for my provisional decision not to award compensation 
for those alleged losses to X and Mr S. Im issuing a provisional (rather than final) 
decision now at least in part because Im interested in any further comments or 
evidence from NHBC or X and Mr S on these reasons.First, the logic X and Mr S use to calculate the projected losses they say were 
caused by the delays in the repairs seems to me to be somewhat speculative.
I have no firm evidence as yet to convince me that the house could have been sold in 
2018 for £650,000. An estate agents suggested marketing price isnt cash in hand. 
Nor has the house yet been sold  or any offer made  at the new asking price X and 
Mr S say the estate agent has suggested.
Nor do I have any firm evidence to demonstrate that X and Mr S had clear and 
settled plans for how to invest the money from the sale of the house. It would be fairly 
easy  with hindsight  to convince oneself that one would have invested in a 
particular way.
There may have been any number of options X and Mr S were considering at the 
time and unless they have firm evidence to show their clear intention to invest in the 
way they now say they would have done, I dont think it would be fair to take that 
entirely at face value.
In other words, I would need more evidence to allow me to conclude that X and Mr S 
would definitely have sold the house in 2018 - and for £650,000. And that they would 
have invested the proceeds in the way they now suggest. Id also need evidence that 
such an option  a guaranteed 4% per annum return, with no risk attached  existed 
at the time and was available to X and Mr S.
In order to conclude that it was fair and reasonable for NHBC to cover those losses, I 
think Id also need some evidence that X and Mr S told NHBC  in good time  what 
was at stake if the repairs werent completed in a timely fashion. If they had, for 
example, told NHBC what their intentions were  and what amounts were involved  
then NHBC would have had fair warning about what was riding on their meeting the 
agreed timetable for the repairs.
Im not suggesting that NHBC should have felt themselves entitled to fail to meet 
promised deadlines etc. if they thought there was nothing at stake except X and 
Mr Ss comfort and enjoyment of their property. But it would in my view be unfair to 
ask NHBC to make good any losses they had no idea were being incurred as a result 
of the delays. And, of course, it would be unfair to ask NHBC to take responsibility for 
fluctuations in the housing market and/or foreign exchange rates.
My second reason for provisionally deciding not to ask NHBC to compensate X and 
Mr S for the losses they claim resulted from the delays to the repairs sits in the policy 
documents provided to us by NHBC.
Section 3 of the warranty says, in essence, that NHBC will pay for major damage to 
the property caused by a defect in the build. As I say theres no dispute here that 
there was major damage, caused by a defect, and that NHBC are obliged to pay for 
the repairs.
In the special conditions which relate to this section of the warranty, it says:
 NHBC will not be liablefor any cost or expense greater than that 
necessary to effect workmanlike repair of the relevant defector damage.
And in the section entitled General Exclusions, it says:NHBC will have no liability in respect of loss of enjoyment, 
inconvenience, distress or any other consequential loss.
So, the terms of the warranty seem to me to explicitly and clearly exclude NHBCs 
liability for any losses suffered by the policyholder which are a consequence of the 
damage and/or defect  and, by implication at least, the work carried out by NHBC to 
rectify that damage and/or defect.
I dont see that theres anything inherently unfair or unreasonable in those terms and 
conditions. Its for NHBC to decide what they wish to cover and then to offer the 
warranties for sale  at a given price - on that basis. The relevant terms arent 
unclear or ambiguous and theyre not hidden in the small print.
For the two reasons set out above, Im minded to agree that the compensation so far 
offered by NHBC for X and Mr Ss trouble and upset is fair and reasonable. And that 
they shouldnt be asked to compensate X and Mr S for the alleged financial losses 
consequent on NHBCs failure to meet their timetable for the repairs.
I should be clear that either reason alone is sufficient to justify that outcome. For me 
to change my provisional decision, I would need to have further information or 
evidence which undermines both of those reasons.
I also want to clarify one other thing. In their response to our investigators view on 
the case, X and Mr S said that, amongst other things, they want us to: ensure that 
NHBC rectify the damage; ensure NHBC supervise their contractors effectively; set a 
deadline for the work to be finished; and state what compensation will be due to them 
if NHBC dont meet that timetable  and if there are any other delays to the work.
I can understand why X and Mr S just want this problem sorted. And I can see why 
theyre appealing to us to ensure NHBC deliver the required result. However, we are 
bound by the FCA rules which govern our service and set out our purpose.
We arent empowered to effectively audit or quality assure NHBCs contractors work 
 and/or the way NHBC handle their contractors. And were not empowered to set 
deadlines for future action or to specify penalties or compensation for so-far 
hypothetical failures to deliver customer service in future.
Were here to handle complaints about whats already happened  and to specify 
how businesses should put things right when theyve made mistakes which have 
impacted their customers.
So, whilst I know this will disappoint X and Mr S  and whilst I can understand why  
we cant deliver some of the outcomes theyve said they want from this complaint. I 
hope at least X and Mr S understand my explanation of what we can and cant do.
And for those reasons, I said I was minded not uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Neither NHBC nor X and Mr S have provided any further comment or information in 
response to my provisional decision. So, I have to assume neither has any information or 
evidence that they think would change my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I havent changed my mind. Im still satisfied that the compensation NHBC 
offered to X and Mr S, before they brought their complaint to us, was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, set out above, I dont uphold X and Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman