DRN-3685741
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way in which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited handled a claim 
made for the critical illness and income protection benefits under an insurance plan which 
included various elements of cover (the plan). And its later decision to decline the claims 
and remove all cover except for the life benefit.
Although Mr B is being represented in his complaint, Ive referred to him throughout as hes 
the policyholder named on the insurance schedules.
What happened
Mr B applied for the plan in early 2018. When applying for the plan he was asked a number 
of questions  including about his health and medical history. 
In the autumn of 2021, Mr B made a claim on the plan for multiple sclerosis (MS) which had 
recently been diagnosed. 
Aviva requested medical records and once considered, declined the claim. Thats because 
Mr B had experienced some numbness in certain parts of his body towards the end of 2017 
which wasnt disclosed when applying for the plan. 
Aviva declined Mr Bs critical illness and income protection claims. It ended up removing all 
elements of the plan apart from the life benefit and refunding Mr B for the premiums hed 
paid for the other cover hed taken out. 
Unhappy, Mr B complained to Aviva. And after it maintained its position, he brought a 
complaint to our service. Our investigator considered what had happened and didnt think 
Aviva had acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So, he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B 
disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case Aviva) has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva says Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering a medical question about whether hed ever had numbness serious enough to 
seek medical advice, when applying for the plan. 
Overall, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr Bs claims for the 
critical illness and income protection benefits. And also removing all cover under the plan  
except for life cover. I also think its overall handling of the claim is fair and reasonable. Ive 
set out my reasons below.  
Declining Mr Bs claims for critical illness and income protection
When first applying for the plan, Mr B was a number of questions about his medical history 
including: 
Have you ever had:
Blurred or double vision, numbness, loss of feeling or muscle power, balance 
problems, or persistent pins and needles or facial pain serious enough to seek 
medical advice?
Im satisfied that this is a clear question and Ill refer to it as the medical question. 
Its reflected that Mr B answered no to the medical question. 
When Aviva reviewed Mr Bs claim, it concluded that hed answered the medical question 
incorrectly.  Thats because Mr B had experienced numbness in particular parts - and down 
one side - of his body towards the end of 2017. The medical evidence reflects that hed 
consulted his GP about the numbness at the time and was advised to urgently attend A&E.
His medical records also reflect that the medical staff at A&E told him he had shingles. But 
the next day, he consulted his GP again as he hadnt been experiencing other symptoms 
usually associated with shingles. The GP notes reflect that Mr B was examined and:
Diagnosis: Numbness of lower limb
Plan:doesnt look like shingles as by now should come up with some rash. ? nerve 
pain or sciatica. Advise observe closely and if gets worst [sic] to call back
So, having considered the medical evidence, Im satisfied that Aviva has fairly and 
reasonably concluded that Mr B answered the medical question incorrectly. He shouldve 
have answered it yes. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Aviva has fairly concluded that Mr B had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA by answering the medical question incorrectly. And Im 
satisfied it has. 
Aviva asked Mr B in early 2022 for an explanation for why hed answered the medical 
question in the way that he had. Thats what I wouldve reasonably expected it to have done 
in the circumstances and thats in line the ABI Code of Practice on misrepresentation and 
claims dated September 2019 (the ABIs Code of Practice).Mr B said he couldnt recall experiencing numbness and thats why he answered no to the 
medical question. Hes more recently said, after bringing a complaint to our service, that the 
episode was trivial, only lasted a few days and therefore it had slipped his mind. 
However, Mr B had experienced the numbness only around six months before applying for 
the plan. He was concerned enough about the numbness to contact his GP. And over a 
period of two days had also attended A&E about this and a further consultation with his GP. 
He may not have known that his GP had recorded the diagnosis of numbness of lower limb 
in his GP records. But ultimately, he had experienced numbness. So, although Mr B says he 
didnt recall, Im satisfied that Aviva has fairly concluded he answered the medical question 
carelessly when applying for the plan. 
I dont think it was reasonable of Mr B to have overlooked the numbness hed experienced in 
the circumstances of this case. He might have regularly consulted with his GP and answered 
questions about his medical history correctly in the past when applying for insurance (and 
other medical questions asked of him when applying for the plan). It also looks like he was 
experiencing some personal issues around that time and in the months after. But I still think 
Aviva has fairly concluded he answered the medical question carelessly.
And Im also satisfied that by asking the medical question when applying for the policy, Mr B 
ought to have realised that the answer would be relevant to Aviva when considering whether 
to offer him the plan  and on what terms. 
Aviva has provided guidance from its underwriter showing that if Mr B had answered the 
medical question correctly, it wouldve requested further medical evidence at the time. And 
ultimately, after review, it wouldnt have offered him any elements of the plan apart from life 
cover. Thats because, without a firm diagnosis (supported by tests) for the numbness hed 
experienced towards the end of October 2017, it wouldnt have known whether this related to 
a potential critical illness covered by the policy and whether it could be confidently excluded 
by adding an appropriate exclusion.  So, I think the answer to the medical question mattered 
to Aviva and was directly relevant to its decision to offer Mr B all elements of the plan 
including critical illness and income protection cover.
Ive looked at the actions Aviva can take in line with CIDRA. Under the legislation its entitled 
to act as it wouldve done had Mr B not answered the medical question carelessly. 
Aviva says it wouldve still considered offering Mr B life cover at the time of application. So, it 
offered to retain the plan with life cover but removed all other cover as none of the other 
benefits  including critical illness and income protection  wouldve been offered. I think 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under CIDRA, Aviva also doesnt have to pay any claim for critical illness or income 
protection as it can treat those element of the plan as if it never existed. Thats what Aviva 
has done here, and I dont think its acted unfairly and unreasonably in the circumstances of 
this complaint by doing so. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that Mr B has said that hes more recently 
made a speculative application for a similar plan to the one he had with Aviva and answered 
the medical question: yes. He says he was asked further questions and if hed answered 
that he had sciatica, the plan wouldve been offered to him.
However, I dont think the medical evidence supports that Mr B had been diagnosed with 
sciatica in late 2017. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that  at most - sciatica was 
mentioned as a possible reason for the numbness but so was nerve pain. Im satisfied a 
definitive prognosis wasnt given for the numbness Mr B was experiencing at the time. The way in which the claim was handled
Aviva has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. 
Mr B is unhappy with level of medical evidence requested by Aviva. He says that Aviva 
requested full medical records going back to 2014 whereas the request for medical records 
shouldve been more targeted. Had Aviva not gone on a fishing expedition, Mr B says it 
would not have known about the numbness hed experienced in 2017 and this wouldve led 
to his claim being accepted and many benefits not being withdrawn. Ive again taken into 
account the ABIs Code of Practice as its also relevant to this point.
After the claim was made, it isnt disputed that Aviva wrote to Mr Bs neurologist to complete 
and return a medical report template it had enclosed. When responding the neurologist said 
that Mr B had first seen a doctor about MS at the end of December 2020 and has been 
presenting symptoms for four months.
But theres also a letter from the neurologist attached to the report dated January 2021 
which acknowledges that Mr B had presented with four months of difficulty with his right leg 
but in retrospect (Mr B) thinks over the last 4/5 years he has had 1 or 2 other problems 
including some fatigue, episodes or poor balance, difficulty with micturition and wonders if 
they may be related. 
In light of what this letter reflected, I dont think Aviva then acted unfairly by requesting a 
report from Mr Bs GP. The GPs report dated November 2020 reflected that Mr B had only 
been registered at that surgery from the autumn 2020, and it only mentioned his current 
symptoms. The report didnt answer all questions put to the GP by Aviva. So, I dont think it 
acted unreasonably by going back for more information. 
Mr B says that Aviva acted unfairly by then requesting full copies of Mr Bs GP records going 
back four years from the date he applied for the plan. Mr B says the request for all medical 
records was too wide and it ought reasonably to have been restricted to the symptoms 
identified in the neurologists letter dated January 2021. I can see Aviva did that when first 
requesting the GPs report in November 2021. But in the circumstances of this case I dont 
think it acted unreasonably by extending the scope of their request when going back to the 
GP again.
Thats because when providing the report, the GP also included some letters from Mr Bs 
neurologist including a letter dated November 2020, which whilst mentioned some of the 
symptoms Mr B had experienced, also reflected that he had asthma for which he takes an 
inhaler. 
I can see that this was noted by Aviva in its system notes and a referral was made to Avivas 
underwriter as when applying for the plan, Mr B had also answered no to the question:
Within the last four years have you had, or have you taken medication for, or been 
advised to take medication of have treatment for:
Asthma or any condition affecting your lungs or breathing (other than hay fever)?
Ill refer to this as the breathing question.
I can see from Avivas notes that as Mr Bs plan had been quoted on smoker rates, if hed 
answered yes to having symptoms of asthma for a certain period leading up to the policy 
being applied for, he wouldve been charged more for the policy. I can see that because of this Aviva decided to ask for medical records from four years 
before the application to cover the breathing question off and also pick up any attendances 
re previous neuro (symptoms).
Theres also a note prior to referring this further issue to the underwriter reflecting that if 
being asthmatic didnt affect terms, the GP wouldve just been asked to confirm again 
whether Mr B had experienced neuro symptoms before registering at the new GP practice in 
2020.
The ABI guidance says that insurers may ask for relevant medical or other information 
needed to properly assess a claim, but it should have a justifiable reason for requesting 
medical information at the point of claim. And the insurer must consider the time for which 
its appropriate to request medical information, the relevant areas that should be investigated 
and keep an audit trail of the reasons for that period. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Aviva has done that in the circumstances of this case. Because of 
the further information it received reflecting that Mr B was asthmatic and had an inhaler, I 
dont think Aviva unreasonably requested further medical evidence going back to March 
2014  four years before Mr B applied for the policy as thats the timeframe he was asked 
about in the breathing question. And in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think 
Avivas further request amounted to fishing or was unfair, given the number of different 
symptoms identified as being potentially relevant to the medical and the breathing questions.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman