DRN-2115355
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc handled a dispute with a 
supplier she had paid using her debit card. Bank of Scotland trades in this case under its 
Halifax brand. 
What happened
Mrs S runs a retail outlet. In May 2019 she engaged two freelancers to service a software 
update on the till system she uses. She did that through a company, U, which acts as an 
intermediary providing introductions to IT and other professionals. She paid U nearly £1,400 
for the service. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with the work that had been carried out and complained to Halifax. 
Because shed used her Halifax debit card to pay for the work, she thought it should provide 
a refund. Payment was made to U, which in turn paid the freelancers. 
Halifax initially credited Mrs Ss account and made a chargeback request. Chargeback is a 
means by which certain card payments can be challenged through the relevant card scheme 
 in this case, Visa. It later reversed that credit, however, when U challenged the 
chargeback.
Mrs S complained about the banks decision, saying the work hadnt been carried out and 
that she was therefore entitled to a refund as services hadnt been received. Halifax said that 
U had provided evidence indicating the work had been done. It wouldnt reinstate the refund. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. 
She thought that Halifax had acted fairly in submitting Mrs Ss chargeback to request. The 
decision not to provide a refund was, however, Visas. The investigator noted that Halifax 
could have pursued the matter further though arbitration, but thought that it was reasonable 
not to do so.
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator noted, theres no obligation on a card provider such as Halifax to submit 
a chargeback request. This service generally takes the view however that its good practice 
to do so if theres a reasonable prospect of success. 
Mrs S said that she hadnt received the services she paid for, so I think Halifax was right to 
credit her account while it looked into the matter through the chargeback process. That 
process wasnt successful, however  in the sense that Visa accepted Us evidence. I realise 
of course that Mrs S disputes that evidence and says that it doesnt prove the work was 
carried out. Its not for me to say whether it was or not  thats primarily a matter between 
Mrs S on the one hand and U and the freelancers on the other. But there certainly was some 
evidence  not least in the form of messages from Mrs S  that work was carried out. 
I note as well that the terms under which Mrs S dealt with U said that, in engaging a 
freelancer, Mrs S was entering into a contract with that individual. Its published terms say 
that U makes its website and website services available to users, but that any service 
contract is made directly between the customer and contractor who carries out the work. I 
note that its terms include arbitration provisions and that Mrs S has said shes pursuing legal 
action against U.
Its not for me to determine the outcome of any dispute Mrs S might have with U or any 
freelancer shes engaged, and I stress that I make no comment on that. In my view, 
however, it was reasonable for Halifax to decide against pursuing chargeback any further 
than it did in the light of the outcome of its initial chargeback claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to take any further steps 
to resolve Mrs Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman