DRN-3104197
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the amount that shes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, for damage to a car that she 
returned at the end of her hire agreement. Her husband is also involved in her complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H and to Mercedes-Benz Finance on 
10 September 2021. In my provisional decision I described what had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mrs H under a hire agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that she electronically signed in April 2018. The car was collected from Mrs 
H in May 2020, after the hire period had ended, by a third party on behalf of 
Mercedes-Benz Finance. The car was inspected and damage to two of the alloy 
wheels and a scratched door was identified and a charge of £380 for that damage 
was recommended. Mercedes-Benz Finance also charged Mrs H for excess mileage.
Mrs Hs husband contacted the third party about the damage immediately after the 
car was collected and Mrs H complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the way 
that the inspection had been conducted and the charges. She also complained about 
an excess mileage charge but that doesnt form part of her complaint to this service.
Mercedes-Benz Finance said that damage had been identified and the charges were 
correct in line with the vehicle return standards and its damage charge matrix. It 
apologised if the third party didnt advise Mrs Hs husband of its findings and upheld 
that element of her complaint. It also agreed to reduce the excess mileage charges 
by £27 to take account of the mileage before the car was delivered to Mrs H and it 
offered to reduce the remaining balance by 10% to £771.62 as a gesture of goodwill. 
That offer wasnt accepted and Mrs H made a complaint to this service about the 
damage charges.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that the inspection wasnt carried out in accordance with the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association guidelines and that the images provided to evidence 
the damages are unclear. She recommend that the charges be removed.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that the scratch on the door is clearly visible on the video that 
its provided and which it says shows a man watching the inspection which it 
assumes to be Mrs Hs husband. It has also provided photos on which its highlighted 
the damage to the wheels. It says that Mrs H was charged £380 for the damage and 
£477.36 for excess mileage and its received a payment of £450.36 from her which 
leaves £407 outstanding (and that the 10% discount that was offered hasnt yet been 
applied).
My provisional findings were as follows:
Mrs H electronically signed the hire agreement which said: When it is time to return 
your vehicle whether that is at the end of the period of hire or earlier (when requested 
to do so), you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards. The 
vehicle return standards were included as part of the agreement and said: When the 
vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by 
trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. The vehicle must be: free from 
any broken or damaged items , free from any defects or condition that would be in 
breach of statutory requirements, free from accident damage; and in good, clean and 
marketable condition. The vehicle return standards also describe the damage to the 
body, paint, wheels and tyres that would be acceptable and unacceptable.
When the agreement was ending Mercedes-Benz Finance arranged for the car to be 
collected from Mrs H by a third party. The car was collected from her in May 2020 
and it was inspected. The inspection didnt take place at a defleet centre but the 
inspection report identified a scratched door and damage to two wheels and included 
photos of the damage and a video of the car.
Having reviewed those photos, the photos on which Mercedes-Benz Finance has 
highlighted the damage to the wheels and the video of the inspection, I consider that 
the scratch to the door and the damage to the wheels is more than would be 
acceptable damage under the vehicle return standards and is more than would 
reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear.
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge Mrs H 
for that damage and its provided her with its damage charge matrix. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the amount that its charged 
Mrs H for the damage to the car is excessive.
The inspection report says: Customer unable to sign due to CV-19 but is aware of 
the inspection results. Mrs Hs husband says that he wasnt made aware of the 
damage or the inspection report and that he contacted the third party immediately 
after the car had been collected and asked it to be returned so that he could look at 
the identified damage. The third party sent Mrs Hs husband a text message which 
said: I wont be returning, you have to take it up with [Mercedes-Benz Finance], I 
have to record everything I find, the report has gone.
I consider it to be more likely than not that Mrs Hs husband wasnt made aware of 
the damage or the inspection report until after the car had been collected. In its final 
response letter to Mrs H, Mercedes-Benz Finance said that it had contacted the third 
party but the inspector was unable to recall this collection and inspection due to the 
time that had passed. It apologised if the inspector didnt advise Mrs Hs husband of 
their findings which had been addressed internally  and it upheld that element of 
Mrs Hs complaint. It offered to reduce the charges for the damage and excess 
mileage by £85.74 from £857.36 to £771.62. I consider that offer to have been fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs H was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of the vehicle return 
standards and she would have had the opportunity to have any damage on the car 
repaired before the car was collected from her. Once the collection had been 
arranged, I consider that it was fair and reasonable for the car to be taken and Im not 
persuaded that there was any requirement for the car to be returned to Mrs H so that 
the damage identified at the time of the inspection could be checked by her husband.
I sympathise with Mrs H (and her husband) for the issues that they had with the 
inspection and the other difficulties that Mrs H has described, but I consider that Mercedes-Benz Finances offer to reduce the charges for the damage and excess 
mileage is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to waive, or 
further reduce those charges, to pay any other compensation to Mrs H or to take any 
other action in response to her complaint. Mercedes-Benz Finance should calculate 
the outstanding amount due from Mrs H taking account of the 10% discount that it 
offered and the payment received from Mrs H. I suggest that Mrs H contacts 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay the outstanding amount. If shes not able to pay that 
amount she should try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with it. If shes 
experiencing financial difficulties, she should explain those difficulties to Mercedes-
Benz Finance  its required to respond to any financial difficulties that shes 
experiencing positively and sympathetically.
Subject to any further representations by any of Mrs H, her husband and Mercedes-Benz 
Finance, my provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mrs Hs husband has responded to my provisional decision in detail and says, in summary, 
that:
the car was inspected by a garage before the end of the lease and was in perfect 
condition for its age, there were no defects outside of normal wear and tear and no 
scratches to any of the bodywork;
neither he nor Mrs H were given the opportunity to attend the handover inspection 
and cant be expected to sign something they havent seen  they shouldve been 
given the opportunity to view any of the reported damage;
sending photos and an invoice is unfair and against their consumer rights;
the car collection personnel acted in an unprofessional manner and fabricated their 
report; and
the return of the car has been badly handled and this needs addressing by 
Mercedes-Benz Finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision.
Its clear that Mrs Hs husband feels very strongly that the car was in a good condition when 
it was collected and that the collection was handled badly by the third party. In my 
provisional decision I said that I consider that the scratch to the door and the damage to the 
wheels is more than would be acceptable damage under the vehicle return standards and is 
more than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear. Im not persuaded that 
its likely that the damage was caused after the car was collected and I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the damage was caused in the two years that Mrs H had the car, in 
which time it was driven for 24,670 miles. I consider that its fair and reasonable for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge Mrs H for that damage.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has apologised if the inspector didnt advise Mrs Hs husband of 
their findings and said that the issue been addressed internally. It upheld that element of 
Mrs Hs complaint and offered to reduce the charges for the damage and excess mileage by 
£85.74 from £857.36 to £771.62. I consider that there were issues with the inspection and that it wasnt conducted to the standard that would reasonably be expected - but I consider 
that Mercedes-Benz Finances offer to reduce the charges for the damage and excess 
mileage is a fair and reasonable response to those issues.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to waive, or further reduce those charges, to pay any other compensation to Mrs H 
or to take any other action in response to her complaint. Mercedes-Benz Finance should 
calculate the outstanding amount due from Mrs H taking account of the 10% discount that it 
offered and the payment received from Mrs H. 
I suggest that Mrs H contacts Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay the outstanding amount. If 
shes not able to pay that amount she should try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with it. If shes experiencing financial difficulties, she should explain those 
difficulties to Mercedes-Benz Finance  its required to respond to any financial difficulties 
that shes experiencing positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my decision is that I dont 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman