DRN-3891753
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way CMC Markets UK plc closed some of her trades, causing her 
a financial loss. She says there was an error by CMCs platform and she has lost out as a 
result. 
What happened
Mrs S had a Contracts for Difference (CFD) trading account with CMC Markets. On 26 
November 2011 Mrs S had a number of long and short positions open on the SP500 cash 
market  her overall net exposure was 96 units long. Although Mrs S was running an overall 
unrealised loss, she continued to have sufficient margin to keep here positions open. 
At 16:11 a short position of 100 units on the same market was closed. This led to her 
account being net long by 196 units, increasing her overall margin requirement to around 
£33,823.66. This meant that her target close-out level (that is, 50% of her margin 
requirement) was £16,911.83  and as her account equity was only £16,678.39 her positions 
were liquidated by CMC Markets. 
Mrs S initially telephoned CMC Markets and asked for her account to be reinstated. In her 
call she explained that her closeout level was not £16,000 but £11,000, and she didnt 
understand what had happened. She said it wasnt fair that all her positions were closed. 
CMC Markets initially considered her request, but explained that as she was overall net long, 
her account had been liquidated correctly. It offered to reinstate her trades, but only if she 
was able to add more margin to the account, as her account would otherwise be liquidated 
again. CMC Markets also explained that in any event, the price had continued to drop, 
meaning that if she wanted to open more long positions she could do so at a cheaper price 
than the one she had been liquidated at. Mrs S said she couldnt add any more money. She 
reiterated her complaint that she had been liquidated incorrectly, and raised a complaint.  
Before responding to her complaint, CMC Markets offered Mrs S a goodwill gesture in full 
and final settlement of the complaint which it said represented the best possible relative 
outcome for your account from this point. Mrs S accepted this goodwill gesture, and was 
able to withdraw this sum from her trading account. 
Shortly after this, CMC Markets issued a final response to her complaint. It considered that it 
hadnt done anything wrong. It said she had closed a short position at 16:11 and this had 
triggered the closeout. It explained how account hedging worked, and what happened when 
Mrs S had closed her trade at 16:11. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service. In summary, she said one of her short positions 
was closed at 16:11, which triggered the liquidation of her account, closing all of her 
positions. However, she said she had never closed that trade and in fact had opened 
another short position 4 minutes earlier. She said that her overall position was long 96 
units, which meant that the liquidation level shouldve been at £10,000 not £16,000. She 
initially asked CMC Markets to reinstate her trades because of his, and confirmed that the 
liquidation had been carried out incorrectly. She said that she wouldnt have closed the short 
position herself because she was aware of the effect this would have on her account  she 
explained there was a clear stop sign, saying if you close this position your account will be 
closed. 
She also referred to previous problems CMC Markets had on its platform, and said she 
believed those same problems affected her trades on 26 November. She also complained 
that she was originally told that CMC Markets would look into the issue and could carry on 
opening trades, but she was then later told her trades wouldnt be reinstated because of 
further activity on the account. Finally she complained that the price she received for her 
S&P500 trade was different to other live charts she had looked at and believed that CMC 
Markets had stolen her money. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint, but didnt think CMC Markets had 
done anything wrong. In short, she said that CMC Markets was clear about margin 
requirements, and what would happen in the event of insufficient margin. She said that the 
evidence showed that Mrs Ss account did not have sufficient margin at the time, and 
therefore CMC Markets was correct in closing her open trades. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. She said that CMC Markets had previously had 
problems with its platform, and this should be taken into account. She also maintained that 
she didnt close the relevant trade. She also said that she telephoned CMC Markets 
immediately and was told her positions would be reinstated. 
CMC Markets provided additional evidence. This showed:
Mrs S was logged in at the relevant times. The logs showed that she had placed a 
short order of 100 units of SPX500 cash on 26 November 2021, and this was closed 
at 16:11 on the same day. It explained that Mrs S wouldve clicked on the X button 
next to the relevant order in order to close it. 
It said that if it had been CMC Markets that had closed this trade, rather than Mrs S, 
a different source channel wouldve showed on the internal logs and it provided an 
example of this. 
It also explained that Mrs S was initially told that her positions could be reinstated if 
she was able to add additional equity to the account, but Mrs S was unable to do this. 
It offered her a goodwill payment of £1,690 in order to resolve the issue, which Mrs S 
accepted. 
The investigator reviewed this evidence, and provided her final assessment. She concluded 
that CMC Markets had provided persuasive evidence that Mrs S had closed the relevant 
trade, and that her account was liquidated fairly and reasonably. She didnt consider there 
was sufficient evidence to conclude CMC Markets had done anything wrong, and therefore 
did not consider Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She maintained she had never closed that trade, and that was the only 
reason she needed to add further money to the account. As agreement couldnt be reached 
the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand Mrs Ss strength of feeling about what happened, and how adamant she is that 
she never closed the relevant trade that sparked the liquidation of her account. 
Unfortunately, however, the evidence Ive seen persuasively shows that the trade was 
closed by her, on her phone, and not CMC Markets. This evidence includes internal logs of 
her account which persuasively show that she closed that trade and not CMC Markets. 
Whilst I accept she disputes this evidence, Im sorry to say that her testimony is not enough 
to outweigh the evidence CMC Markets has provided. 
Ultimately, Im persuaded that the closure of that trade was likely not something Mrs S was 
intending on doing. She may have done this by error, or had perhaps misunderstood the 
overall net position of her account in relation to the market she was trading on. But whatever 
the reasons behind this closure, Im satisfied it isnt something that I can hold CMC Markets 
responsible for. 
CMCs platform worked as intended  it received a market order from Mrs S, and it executed 
it. So in terms of the trade itself, for the reasons Ive given, I agree with the investigator and 
conclude there was no error in CMC Markets execution of it. I should say that Ive also seen 
insufficient evidence that the price it gave Mrs S was not representative of the market. 
Having accepted that this trade was placed by Mrs S, it automatically follows that I dont 
uphold the remainder of her complaint. This is because once that trade was executed, the 
margin required for Mrs S to keep her trades open increased substantially. 
Im satisfied the evidence shows that the level of unrealised losses on Mrs Ss account was 
such that she immediately had less than 50% of the required margin available  and this 
triggered the automatic closeout of her trades. As she has already been told, this wasnt 
something CMC Markets could do anything about  it was an automatic process that it was 
legally required to carry out. 
Ive also listened to the calls Mrs S had with CMC Markets immediately after the liquidation. 
Im satisfied it never told her it had made an error, and in fact Mrs S was repeatedly told that 
the liquidation had been carried out correctly. 
Furthermore, I agree she was offered a reinstatement of her trades  but only in the event 
she add more margin, which she was not willing to do. I accept that she says she was only 
asked to add more margin because of the closure of the short position that she disputes  
but even before that, her account was net long on the S&P500. And since the value of the 
S&P500 was dropping, she wouldve been at risk of closeout in any event. 
For all these reasons, Im satisfied CMC Markets acted fairly and reasonably when it 
liquidated Mrs Ss open positions. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, but I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman