DRN-1657173
The complaint
Ms T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) have refused to honour 
a banker's draft dated 7 February 2006, drawn against her old savings account, in favour of 
her now deceased parents.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms T and Halifax, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any great 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Ms T closed her account on the 7 February 2006 issuing a banker's draft to her parents at 
the same time. In 2019, having found the draft amongst her parents' papers, she presented 
it to Halifax and asked them to honour it. Halifax declined to honour the draft as they were 
not satisfied that the monies hadnt been paid to her parents.
Ms T was unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, came to the conclusion that Halifax had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Ms T didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into 
account both sides views in considering whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably. Ive 
looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is not 
complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence 
which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for 
each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that Halifax has done 
anything wrong and Ill explain why.
Looking at the evidence, on the face of matters it would seem that the banker's draft has not 
been cashed and thus it follows that the funds which were once in Ms Ts account would still 
be there. I can easily understand why Ms T feels that the draft should now be honoured.
However, I have to consider not only Ms Ts viewpoint but also that of Halifax. Halifax has 
explained that on the issue of a draft the funds are transferred into an internal account where 
they are held pending presentment of the draft. As such those funds leave Ms Ts account, as is evidenced from her closing bank statement. In one sense, Ms Ts account now reflects 
that which she expected, that being the removal of those funds. 
The draft, having been issued then required presenting for payment. Ms Ts position is that 
she thinks her parents had deliberately not presented the draft as they knew that Ms T was 
struggling financially at the time. This is conjecture on her part, as her parents did not tell her 
that that was what they had done. Halifax takes a different view, which is that a replacement 
draft may have been issued if the original had become misplaced, and that it seems unlikely 
that a person would simply not present a draft without explaining that to the payer.
Halifax have checked their records, but because these events go back 14 years they now 
have very few records and none which can definitively answer the question of whether the 
draft was presented and cashed. 
Ms T is very unhappy with our investigators view and feels that it implies she is lying and 
fraudulently attempting to obtain monies that are not hers. I can see why she would feel like 
that, but I dont share that view. I think she has taken a very reasonable approach to the 
discovery of a bankers draft. She has considered why that draft may not have been 
presented and cashed, and then quite properly approached Halifax.  But that doesnt mean it 
wasnt cashed. In the absence of full records then it is entirely possible that an alternative 
draft was issued, especially as Ms Ts parents did not tell her they were not going to present 
it.
Ms T has also queried why the burden of proving her argument is on her and not Halifax. 
Our service is not a Court service, but we do have to employ similar methods to the way we 
evaluate and deal with evidence. As I have said above when we look into a case we 
consider whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably, and here I think Halifax have. I 
say that because there are other explanations which are reasonable, and I think it is 
reasonable that Ms T, having raised one possible explanation, does provide some evidence 
to support that view. Beyond the existence of the draft itself, there is none Im, afraid.
So looking at whether Halifax have dealt with the matter fairly and reasonably I have to 
conclude it has and so Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman