DRN-4114044
The complaint
Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Select Silver packaged account in March 2014.
Mr W complained, via a representative, that his account was mis-sold because he was not 
given the option of a fee-free account. Mr W said that if he knew a fee-free account was 
available, he would not have agreed to the Select Silver account.
In our complaint form, Mr W has also said that he was locked out from using the benefits 
provided by the account and was unable to use the benefits so wants a refund of the 
account fees.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Select Silver 
(later changed to a Reward Silver by Mr W in 2017) account had been mis-sold.
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
Firstly, I note that the reasons Mr W gave when he complained via a representative about 
the sale of his packaged account seem to be very different to the reasons he now gives as to 
why he says it was mis-sold. I have to say from the outset that the significant change in 
reasons why he says the account was mis-sold naturally makes me question the plausibility 
of what he says happened. Nevertheless, I have considered all of the reasons that Mr W has 
given and Im unable to say that the account was mis-sold.
Mr W says that he was not given the option of a fee-free account and says that, had he been 
provided the option of having a fee-free account, he would not have agreed to the packaged 
account. However, prior to the sale of the account, Mr W already had a fee-free account with 
NatWest. And Mr W upgraded his account to a Select Silver account himself online. As such, 
given that Mr W already had a fee-free account, and he upgraded his account (rather than it 
being sold to him by NatWest), Im satisfied that Mr W was aware fee-free accounts were 
generally available.
Indeed, looking at an archived version of NatWests website from 2014, the different account 
options were clearly set out. This included a fee-free Select account, the Select Silver 
account for £10 per month and the Select Platinum account for £16 per month. 
So, taking everything into account, I think that Mr W was given a fair choice and that it was 
made clear that fee-free alternatives existed as an option, if he didnt want to take out a fee-
paying packaged account.
As Mr W applied for the account online, this meant that it was sold on a non-advised basis. 
This means that NatWest was not required to check if the account was suitable for Mr W. 
But NatWest was required to provide Mr W with the important information about the account, 
so he could decide this for himself
NatWest has provided evidence which indicates that Mr W was made aware of the key 
features of the account. And he was asked questions relating to the exclusions applicable to 
the insurance benefits  such as whether he had any pre-existing medical conditions (which 
he answered no to). 
So overall, it does seem as though Mr W was presented with a lot of the important 
information about the account, so I think it was the case that Mr W had a good appreciation 
of what he was signing up for. I accept its possible that some of the important information 
might not have been drawn to his attention, but Ive not seen anything about Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
upgrade, had he been given even more information about it.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think that the packaged account was mis-sold.
Mr W says the account was mis-sold because he was locked out of using the benefits. 
Mr W has not explained what exactly he means by this. But from what he has said it sounds 
as though he had a technical issue accessing the packaged account benefits information 
online. Although frustrating, this doesnt mean the account was mis-sold. 
However, although it may be the case that Mr W mayve had technical issues accessing the 
benefits online, this doesnt mean he wasnt covered by the various products. Afterall, he 
couldve called the insurers to check he was covered; to pay for upgrades if theyre needed; 
and to make claims. 
Mr W has also said that the account was mis-sold because he wasnt covered by the 
insurance policies. But if its the case that Mr W was unhappy with any particular claims 
being declined by the insurers, then he will need to raise his concerns directly with the 
relevant insurer that handled the claim, rather than NatWest.
Finally, I understand that Mr W says he tried to downgrade his account but says he was told 
he couldnt and says he was told he had to close his account and then reopen a new one. 
NatWest has searched its records for any potential downgrade request it mayve received or 
discussion about closing the account and opening a new one, but it has been unable to 
locate any such request. And although Mr W has said this happened  he has provided few 
details about how or when he made these requests.
So based on the evidence that I do have, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr W was 
unreasonably prevented from downgrading his account by NatWest. I can see that in its 
response to the complaint dated 10 January 2023, NatWest explained how Mr W can 
downgrade his account if he no longer wanted the Reward Silver account, and directed Mr 
W where he could do this in the banking app and also through online banking. So from what 
I can see, NatWest gave Mr W clear information on how he can go about downgrading, if he 
wished to do so.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman