DRN-2914246
The complaint
Mr F complains that an international payment by Santander UK Plc (Santander) took too 
long.
What happened
On 7 September 2020, Mr F made an international payment for USD3000 to an account in 
Pakistan. He was debited with £2342.31, plus a charge of £25. It was delayed. On 8 October 
2020, £2256.80 was refunded back to Mr Fs account, plus a refund of the fee of £25. Mr F 
made the payment using another bank.
Mr F complained. He said that Santanders website said the payment would be completed in 
four days. And, Santander didnt advise him of the delays  he had to call Santander many 
times to try to sort things out. Because of the delays, he had to pay storage charges and 
damages of USD2695 and £600. And  when the payment was returned, he received less 
that hed sent.
Santander said the payment was held by the intermediary bank for their checks to be 
completed. Theyd asked Mr F for some information on 24 September 2020. On 30 
September 2020, Mr F asked for the payment to be cancelled and recalled, which they did. 
Their terms and conditions covered what happened. They said that payments would arrive 
usually within 4 working days. The delays were outside Santanders control  the 
intermediary bank was completing checks, which took some time. They refunded the fee of 
£25 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Santanders terms and conditions 
covered what had happened. And their website did say that the payment should usually 
take four days  and not a guaranteed timeline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that we are not the regulators of Santander  thats the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). So, we cant interfere with their terms and conditions and 
commercial decisions  thats for the FCA to do.
There are three aspects to Mr Fs complaint:
That the payment wasnt completed in four days, as advertised  and the delays 
were not acceptable
Santander didnt advise him of the failed payment  all the effort and contact came 
from him
That he received back less than he sent  by £85.51.
Looking at the first point. Im afraid that the terms and conditions do cover what happened. 
The website does indeed say that transfers usually take four days. And in this case, 
usually does cover Santander here  they dont guarantee a four-day timescale. 
The delays were caused by the intermediary bank used by Santander making their own 
checks  and the terms and conditions go on to say that Santander arent responsible for 
these or any delays or costs involved. They say We shall not be liable for any loss you may 
incur or suffer as a result of any delay or failure in an International Payment reaching the 
bank (or other financial institution) account of the beneficiary of the payment, where that 
delay or failure is a result of (or arises in connection with): (ii) any failure or delay on the part 
of the bank (or other financial institution) to credit the beneficiarys account. And so  on Mr 
Fs first complaint point, Santanders terms and conditions clearly state their position  and 
theyre not liable.
On Mr Fs second point, again, Santanders terms and conditions do say that theyre not 
responsible for ensuring that payments are received by the beneficiary. They say we are not
obliged to receive or request credit confirmation from the bank of the beneficiary that the
payment has been received. Mr F has said to us that this doesnt cover his complaint  he 
says that Santander shouldve realised the funds hadnt been credited to the beneficiary and 
shouldve automatically commenced a trace. I can see that Mr F has evidenced that he 
made many calls to Santander between 14 September 2020 and 6 October 2020. But I do 
think that Santanders terms and conditions cover this point  so I disagree with Mr F here.
On Mr Fs third complaint point  that he received back less than he sent. Im afraid that 
again, Santanders terms and conditions also cover this. They say If the returned payment 
is in a currency other than pounds, before crediting the returned payment into your account, 
we will convert the returned payment (less any fees referred to in Condition 1.3 a) of Section 
2F into pounds using our current exchange rate applicable for payments made into your 
account for the Working Day on which we re-credit your account. This may mean that your 
account will be re-credited with a different amount than was originally debited. I can see that 
Mr F received back less than he sent  but this is explained by the fact that the amount 
returned was converted into GBP at a different rate on the day it was received from the 
intermediary bank. 
Mr F had said he wasnt aware of the terms and conditions. We asked Santander about that. 
They showed us the screens that Mr F wouldve seen in making the payment  these have a 
link to learn more about payments and timescales  but these just restate the usually four 
days statement. So  I must consider whether Santander can rely on the general availability 
of their terms and conditions in this case  and I consider that they can. Im sure that they 
wouldve been mailed to Mr F on a regular basis  and they are available on Santanders 
website, and in branches. So  I cant challenge that aspect of what Santander have done.   
I can appreciate that Mr F has lost money here. And he feels strongly that he was wronged 
by Santander  and that they are relying on the small print. But I can only uphold Mr Fs 
complaint if I find that Santander have made an error  which they havent in this instance. 
And so, I wont be asking Santander to do anymore here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman