DRN-2354078
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI with their mortgage in 1997. The policy protected Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event Mr C wasnt able to work.
Mr and Mrs C also took out more PPI when they arranged further advances on their 
mortgage account in 2001, 2002 and 2007. 
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs mis-sale 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They mainly said they were told the policies were compulsory and 
it wasnt ever explained to them that PPI was optional nor were they asked if they wanted 
PPI.
They also told us that they had money in reserve in the bank that couldve been used to pay 
the mortgage if necessary and PPI wasnt something they wanted or needed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Heres why I say this.
I dont know exactly what Mr and Mrs C were told about PPI when this insurance was 
arranged. But this all happened a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mr and Mrs C to be able to recall exactly what was said or how the PPI was presented or 
explained to them. So what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
mis-sale complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think most likely. 
what happened in 1997
Theres nothing mentioned on Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application that wouldve suggested 
that having PPI was compulsory with their mortgage. 
They had to complete a separate PPI application to have the cover added on  so I dont 
think this wouldve suggested that the PPI was an essential part of their mortgage. 
And when choosing how they wanted to share the policy benefits they opted just to cover 
Mr C. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that Mrs C wouldnt have been eligible as well. So 
it appears that Mr and Mrs C were aware at the time that they could choose the cover they 
wanted  and when they selected not to cover Mrs C and to cover Mr C only its likely this 
reflected their wishes at the time.
And I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mr C shortly afterwards confirming that the policy had 
been set up. That letter started: 
Thank you for choosing C&G Payment Protection Plus Insurance.
It went on to say that Mr C should check all the policy details to ensure that your cover is 
right for you
This letter also explained that if Mr C didnt feel that the cover was suitable he could return 
the paperwork for a full refund and the policy would be cancelled. 
So, although I dont know what was said to them about the PPI, I think that Mr and Mrs C 
wouldve been able to see from this letter that PPI was a matter of choice and it was up to 
them to decide if they wanted PPI with the mortgage. 
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs C were aware that having the policy was optional  and it 
was added to their mortgage account when Mr C requested this.
C&G says it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs C. So it shouldve taken reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover was suitable as well as giving Mr and Mrs C important policy 
information in a clear way.
Mr C told us he wouldve received sick pay from his employer for between 3 and 6 months.  
And that they had savings they couldve relied on. But this doesnt mean that the PPI wasnt 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C.
Mr C was eligible for the policy. It wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months on top of his 
work benefits each time he made a successful claim. The amount paid wouldve more than 
covered the mortgage monthly repayments as it also included some extra to help with other 
costs.  
I think this couldve been very useful if Mr C wasnt able to work as Mr and Mrs C mightve 
had extra expenses to meet as a result of Mr C being off work sick or disabled. 
The policy wouldve also paid out if Mr C had lost his job unexpectedly and found himself out 
of work. 
Mr C couldve made repeated claims so having PPI provided long term cover for the 
mortgage. 
And although Mrs C was also in paid work, Mr C was the main earner. So I think its likely 
that losing his income wouldve had a big impact on the household finances. 
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs C feel they couldve always covered the mortgage 
monthly repayments by relying on their other means. 
But looking at the information they put on their mortgage application, it looks like they had 
some other outstanding credit commitments and they borrowed extra money to pay for 
buying a car, furniture, redecorating and garden improvements. 
So its possible that Mr and Mrs C didnt have as much spare cash as they thought. 
And I dont know if they wouldve always had savings to rely on if Mr C wasnt able to work. Given the serious problems that can happen when mortgage payments arent paid in full and 
on time, I think PPI was worthwhile and suitable for them as it provided a dependable means 
of covering the mortgage monthly repayments. 
Some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI possibly wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like this 
wouldve affected Mr C. So I dont think its likely that more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it out. 
I dont know if Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C clear information about all aspects of the PPI costs 
when they filled in the application  to take it out. But Mr and Mrs C were able to see what 
theyd have to pay for the policy if they wanted to keep it  and they were sent information 
explaining that it could be cancelled at no cost if they didnt want to pay for it. So they appear 
to have wanted it. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable for them. 
Overall, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs C wouldve made a different decision in 1997 if Lloyds 
had given them better information. 
what happened in 2001
When Mr and Mrs C took out a further advance on their mortgage account in 2001 they filled 
in an application form to have PPI added on to cover the extra borrowing theyd taken out. 
As before, they arranged the cover for Mr C. 
So I think its likely that they wanted the PPI benefits to cover this extra borrowing. And I can 
understand why. As far as I can see Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances were broadly the same. 
Mr C had changed employer  but his work benefits were still the same. 
The new policy offered the same benefits and it provided Mr and Mrs C with the long term 
protection they already had for their original mortgage. Mr C continued to be able to take 
advantage of all the benefits under the policy. 
So I think PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C in 2001.
Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs C telling them what the additional cover would cost and invited 
them to phone if they had any questions. I cant see anything that suggests Mr and Mrs C 
contacted Lloyds with any questions about the PPI at the time. 
So it looks to me like Mr and Mrs C were happy to pay for the additional PPI theyd applied 
for in 2001. 
what happened in 2002
When Mr and Mrs C took out extra borrowing on their mortgage account in 2002 I can see 
that they indicated on the application they filled in that they werent interested in having PPI 
with that borrowing.
So I think they understood that it was up to them to say if they wanted to have PPI  or not. 
In the event, it looks like they changed their minds about taking out some extra cover for 
their new borrowing. They both completed and signed an application form to take out PPI  
filling in their details and requesting 100% of the cover for Mr C as before.
Looking at the paperwork they completed, it appears that they applied for more PPI and 
agreed the extra cost of the additional cover as they wanted the PPI benefits to cover their 
increased borrowing. And I can understand why. As far as I can see their circumstances were largely unchanged. It appears that the new 
policy gave Mr and Mrs C the same benefits and it provided them with the long term 
protection they already had in place on their mortgage account. 
Mr C continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under the policy. And theres 
nothing to suggest that the extra cost was a problem for them when they set up the 
arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional PPI. So I think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs C in 2002.
Taking all their circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the way Lloyds sold 
them this PPI, I havent seen enough to make me think that having clearer information about 
the PPI wouldve put Mr and Mrs C off having it.
what happened in 2007
Mr and Mrs C filled in another PPI application when arranging to borrow more money on 
their mortgage account in 2007. And its clear from looking at Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage loan 
agreement that PPI was shown as optional. So, I think that Mr and Mrs C made an informed 
decision to take out PPI with their additional borrowing in 2007 and it was added to the 
mortgage account at their request. 
It looks like some of this borrowing was intended to be used for debt consolidation as well as 
paying for home improvements. So that doesnt suggest to me that its likely Mr and Mrs C 
had significant savings to fall back on. And theres a note suggesting that theyd looked at 
changing from an endowment mortgage (which had smaller monthly repayments) to a 
repayment mortgage  but that the monthly repayments if they did this would be beyond the 
budget theyd set for the new lending. 
Mr Cs work benefits continued as before and the new PPI continued to offer the same 
benefits and long term protection Mr and Mrs C already had set up on their mortgage 
account. 
Mr C continued to be able to take advantage of all the policy benefits. 
So I think PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C in 2007.
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Cs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly repayments were 
protected even if Mr C couldnt work  and it looks like it proved useful when he made a 
claim after being made redundant. 
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs C mightve forgotten some of these details from sales 
that took place so long ago. 
But, based on all the information Ive seen, I dont find they have lost out as a result of 
anything that Lloyds did wrong when it sold them PPI.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back to Mr and Mrs C some of the 
commission they paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs comments, including what theyve said about the way 
a PPI claim they read about on our website was dealt with. We look at all cases on their own 
merits, taking into account the particular circumstances which apply in each individual case. 
I am concerned here just with Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the PPI sold on their 
mortgage account . So these points dont change my conclusion.
Im sorry that what Ive said will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C. But I do hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman