DRN-3162998
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) irresponsibly gave him a loan and 
an increase to his credit card limit. He feels this added to his difficulty dealing with a 
gambling addiction.
What happened
Mr Hs credit card from TPF began in 2011, with a credit limit of £4,000. Mr H didnt ask for 
any increase in the credit limit, but TPF gave one in May 2016, increasing the limit to £6,000. 
Mr H took out a three-year loan with TPF in 2012. He made the payments towards this loan, 
and paid it off in June 2015. Mr H then took out a second three-year loan with TPF in 
September 2015.
From around 2017, Mr H struggled to make his payments towards the loan and the credit 
card. Despite some late payments, Mr H managed to pay off most of the loan over the 
following years, with TPF writing off just under £800 of the remaining balance in March 2019. 
The credit card debt passed into default, with TPF selling the debt to a third party in January 
this year.
Mr H has complained that TPF shouldnt have lent him the money. His complaint talked 
about debts he built up as a result of a gambling addiction, using up the money lent to him 
by TPF. He accepts he hadnt told TPF about his gambling problem at the time, but feels 
they should have done more to recognise it and restrict what they lent him.
TPF responded by saying they carried out reasonable checks at the time to make sure the 
lending was affordable and sustainable. They feel that means their decisions to lend to Mr H 
considered what was required and were responsible, based on what they knew at the time. 
They said how Mr H chose to spend his available credit was a matter for him, and wouldnt 
have been analysed by them.
Unresolved, the complaint came to me for a decision. I wrote a provisional decision last time, 
explaining that I intended to partly uphold Mr Hs complaint. I found that TPFs decision to 
give Mr H the loan in 2015 had been reasonable, but the decision to increase his credit card 
limit wasnt. To resolve this, I said TPF should refund some of the fees and interest that were 
paid on the credit card, and pay Mr H some compensation.
I explained too why I felt the actual money Mr H borrowed didnt need to be written off, and 
why his credit record didnt need to be adjusted. 
TPF didnt respond to my provisional decision, which Ive taken to mean they have nothing 
new to add before I make a final decision. Mr H did respond, and explained why he felt there 
should be an adjustment to his credit history, to reflect that the last two years hes not repaid 
the credit card debt reflects the time he was waiting for his complaint to be resolved, rather 
than his ability to manage his credit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided my provisional decision was the right one for this complaint. 
Im going to largely repeat the reasoning I set out last time. But Ill add a short piece to 
explain why Mr Hs comments havent changed my view about changing his credit history.
When lending money to Mr H, regulations and guidance call for TPF to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks that he could afford the borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Particularly relevant here are guidelines in the consumer credit sourcebook of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook (CONC). Part 5.2A.22 says a business should have regard 
to information that may indicate a customer has a vulnerability.
Mr H has said he didnt tell TPF about his gambling addiction. But Ive looked to see what 
information was available to TPF that could have told them there was a problem.
When giving Mr H the September 2015 loan, TPF checked whether it would be affordable for 
him by looking at his income and outgoings. I can see how that led them to conclude he 
could afford the borrowing, as even with the repayments and other financial commitments, 
Mr H would have some disposable income left each month.
TPF also used a scoring of Mr Hs credit history to assess whether he could sustain the 
repayments of the loan. Here I accept the result supported the decision to lend to him. 
Mr Hs credit record in 2015 doesnt look to have any defaulted debts, or debts with 
repayment issues.
TPF had some history of lending to Mr H, which I would have expected them to consider too. 
But it would have been enough for TPF to consider recent events.
The 2012 loan had been repaid in June 2015 without major issues. So that seems to support 
the decision to lend to Mr H in September 2015. And looking at the statements for the credit 
card in the six months leading up to September 2015, the spending doesnt appear too 
concerning either.
Its true the total balance on the card was staying close to its limit, rather than being 
gradually paid off. But Mr H was making regular payments toward the card, and the 
affordability checks TPF had done suggested hed still be able to do that, even with the new 
loan.
Mr H had made a couple of gambling transactions on his credit card over the six months. But 
these dont appear problematic  they were for relatively low amounts, infrequent, and 
werent causing the card to go repeatedly over its limit. I can see why TPF wouldnt 
necessarily have thought there was a gambling problem  or a related vulnerability  in that 
case. 
So Im currently of the view that even if TPF had looked at Mr Hs recent history with them  
in addition to the checks they did  they wouldnt have seen anything to suggest the loan in 
September 2015 would be unaffordable or unsustainable, or that Mr H was potentially made 
vulnerable by a gambling addiction.
After getting the loan, I can see Mr H used some of it to pay off his credit card with TPF. He 
then re-spent the credit on gambling. Over a relatively short amount of time - 7 to 14 September  Mr H spent a relatively large amount of money on gambling websites  over 
£4,000.
The spending now showed a drastic difference to what had gone before, or what would be a 
typical pattern of use. Id have expected TPF to have some way to recognise that sort of 
spending, as there was a chance the activity pointed to some underlying problem.
Its possible TPF may have decided to call and check Mr H had made the purchases  as a 
sharp change in activity could indicate some sort of fraud. But theyd have found no issue 
there  it was him making the purchases. And even if theyd commented to him about the 
high amount spent rapidly on gambling, its not clear Mr H would have recognised that as a 
problem. Hes said he didnt tell anyone about his gambling addiction until 2019. 
But I find the transactions seem to show that the only control on the gambling in September 
2015 was that Mr H had reached his credit limit. I intend to conclude that TPF should have 
made a note of that, as it suggested Mr H was a vulnerable customer. Failing to do that 
meant the vulnerability wasnt considered when TPF decided to increase Mr Hs credit limit. 
Failing to take that into account made the credit limit increase irresponsible. 
Putting things right
TPFs decision to lend to Mr H in September 2015 would likely have been confirmed by extra 
checks of his recent borrowing with them. So TPF wont need to take any steps to change 
the impact that lending had on him.
But the decision TPF made in 2016 to increase Mr Hs credit limit was unreasonable, 
because it didnt consider the evidence they had which indicated he was a vulnerable 
customer.
That lending decision allowed Mr H to gamble borrowed money, until it was gone. He then 
had to pay the money back, with interest. The episode also meant the account went over-
limit more frequently, incurring a fee. And ultimately, the account went into default.
To put that right, TPF should refund the interest and fees charged on the credit card lending 
above £4,000  the pre-May 2016 credit limit. Had TPF considered the credit limit increase 
more reasonably, I find it likely those fees and interest wouldnt have been incurred. 
Ive thought about whether the actual money Mr H borrowed after the credit limit was 
increased should be written off. But Ive decided thats not a fair remedy here. There was 
enough evidence available to TPF that they should have considered Mr H was potentially a 
vulnerable customer. But there wasnt quite enough to say hed certainly gamble away any 
money they lent to him.
Mr H has talked about the emotional impact his situations had on him. Its been difficult to 
fully picture what it was like living with the feelings hes described. But I truly hope that he 
now feels better able to cope with his finances and gambling addiction.
A lot of that turmoil comes from the impact of Mr Hs addiction  rather than actions by TPF. 
But TPFs irresponsible lending added to the impact, by adding to the debt that addiction 
was able to create. To acknowledge that, TPF should pay some compensation to Mr H.
Picking an amount for that is a matter of opinion. In my view, £600 is a suitable figure here. I 
feel it balances the profound impact Mr H has described feeling because of this situation, 
against the fact that TPFs failing only contributed to that, rather than being the main cause.Thinking about Mr Hs credit record for this matter, Ive noted Mr Hs comments in response 
to my provisional decision. I get his point  he might have handled the debt differently, if TPF 
had responded to his complaint differently, in line with what Ive now said they should do. 
But Im not as sure of that. Ive not fully upheld Mr Hs complaint about all of TPFs lending 
decisions. And Ive not said they need to write off the whole credit card debt. So I feel theres 
a good chance that if TPF had responded more in line with what Im now saying, Mr H would 
still have chosen to bring his complaint to us, rather than repaying the debt. His credit record 
will be consistent with that, which I consider fair in this case. 
Mr H defaulted on his credit card and was late with some of the payments for the 2015 loan. 
The negative reporting on the history of the loan seems to follow from the reasonable 
decision to lend to him in 2015, rather than any failing by TPF. It seems unfair to ask them to 
change that, given theyve made no error.
Likewise, the credit card default fairly reflects Mr Hs use of his credit at the time. His 
gambling addiction meant the credit limits he had acted as the only brake on his spending. 
Potential lenders will use Mr Hs credit record to decide how much of a limit to apply to his 
future borrowing. I feel that makes it fair  and maybe even beneficial to Mr H  for them to 
be able to accurately consider his past with TPF when they do. So Im not directing TPF to 
make any changes to Mr Hs credit record as a result of this complaint.
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Hs complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC. Their decision to 
increase his credit card limit in 2016 was irresponsible. To put this right, they should do the 
following:
Work out what fees and interest have been charged on the increased credit limit 
since 2016, and waive or refund them.
If these amounts exceed whats still owed on the credit card, refund the excess to 
Mr H, together with 8% simple interest.
Pay Mr H £600 compensation for the upset and distress TPF have added to his 
situation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman