DRN-3643465
The complaint
Ms H complains that after opening a dealing account with AJ Bell Management Limited in 
order to invest in the XBT Bitcoin Tracking Fund (the fund) the fund was then withdrawn by 
AJ Bell.  
Ms H says shes been misled and financially disadvantaged by this move and would like 
compensation for her potential investment loss.
What happened
In January 2021, Ms H opened a dealing account after finding information online (via a 
google search) that offered an opportunity for her to invest in the fund, which wasnt 
available on other (regulated) platforms. Despite this, she wasnt able to invest in the fund 
because it wasnt available. 
Consequently, Ms H believes shes been misled by AJ Bell. She found she couldnt invest in 
the fund, only after opening an account which she did for the sole purpose of investing in the 
specific fund.   
AJ Bell didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
As of 6 January 2021, its no longer able to offer crypto related funds, following a ban 
from the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA).
The information is still available on its website so that customers who had already 
invested in the fund before the ban could track the fund through its website.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Section 5.1 of the terms and conditions states: You may only place orders for 
permitted investments. Section 5.2 states: We may alter the range of permitted 
investments at any time without notice. 
As Ms H had to agree to the terms and conditions before opening the account, AJ 
Bell isnt acting outside of its agreement.  
The FCA made the decision to ban the fund in question, not AJ Bell. 
AJ Bell, like other platforms that offer similar products, is required to comply with FCA 
rules. So, despite Ms H wanting to invest in the fund in question, it wouldnt have 
been offered by any regulated provider at the time  therefore shes not entitled to 
any compensation for potential loss.   
Despite what Ms H says, she hasnt been misled. AJ Bell explained why they have a 
page for the fund on their website and why the fund was unavailable. Its not for us to 
dictate what information a business shares on its website. 
If Ms H was unsure or wanted confirmation of the funds available, she couldve 
contacted AJ Bell at any point before opening an account. 
 
Ms H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
Shes glad that our service accepts advertising something that isnt available is 
acceptable. 
The investigators view relies on small print  and a presumption that retail clients 
should be aware of this  but is this acceptable?
She wants to know if the investigator is comfortable with AJ Bells statement that it 
would consider compensation on the basis of reciprocity with retail clients. 
The investigators statement that other businesses also advertise is incorrect, but 
even if they did, it doesnt make it right.  
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. She confirmed that were not the FCA and we are entitled to consider the terms and 
conditions in coming to a decision about whether the business behaved reasonably. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms H says, Im unable to safely 
say that AJ Bell behaved unreasonably in the circumstances or that it did anything that it 
wasnt permitted to do. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Ms H has about this matter. She has provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that she wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, 
as a discourtesy
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised and its not necessary 
for to answer every question raised in order to reach a decision in this case. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Ms H, and AJ Bell, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Its common industry practice for financial businesses to provide customers with the terms 
and conditions of business that governs the relationship between the business and the 
customer. In turn, customers are expected to read through and/or familiarise themselves 
with the document and agree to it before going ahead with the account. 
In this instance Im satisfied that Ms H was provided with the terms and conditions of the 
dealing account titled Terms and conditions for the SIPP, ISA, Lifetime ISA, Junior ISA and 
Dealing Account  a 29 page document  and that she agreed to it before going ahead with 
opening the account. In this instance I dont think it was necessary for the business to draw her attention to any specific part, the key information was easy to find and prominent under 
the relevant section.      
I note under part 5 of the terms and conditions, under the main heading Dealing, sub-
heading Permitted Investments, section 5.1 (on page 7) made clear that an investor can 
only purchase orders for permitted investments. Furthermore, the first line of section 5.2, 
also on page 7, made clear We may alter the Permitted Investments range at any time 
without notice. So, in the circumstances, I cant say that the AJ Bell  by removing the 
fund/not being able to provide the fund  acted outside of its authority or agreement with Ms 
H. If Ms H didnt read the terms and conditions, or wasnt familiar with it, its not something I 
can blame the business for.  
The above notwithstanding, I note that AJ Bell, as a regulated financial business, was only 
following the requirements of the FCA, its regulator, following a ban on crypto related funds. 
It wasnt a decision it made of its own volition and it was required to take the action it did. 
In other words, the decision to disallow new customers to trade on the fund was taken out of 
its hands  it couldnt allow Ms H to trade in the relevant fund even if it wanted to  so Im 
unable to safely say that shes entitled to any compensation.   
I understand that the information in relation to the fund in question was still available on its 
website, so that customers who had already invested in the fund  before the ban  could 
still track the fund through its website. I note it wasnt intended for new customers so far as 
AJ Bell is concerned. Despite what Ms H says about why she opened an account with AJ 
Bell, theres no way that the business wouldve known this, and therefore it wouldnt have 
been in a position to set the record straight without her making the relevant enquires with it. 
I note AJ Bell says the format of the display was due to formatting restrictions, licenced to AJ 
Bell by a third-party. I note the business says all research pages were built in the same way 
and accepts that the information wasnt as clear as it couldve been  i.e. that the information 
is still displayed for illustrative purposes and for the benefit of existing customers invested in 
the fund. In the circumstances and on balance, Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint 
on the basis of what appears to be a difference of opinion/interpretation regarding what Ms H 
thought it stood for and why AJ Bell still had the information displayed. 
I note AJ Bell also said:
Our suite of research tools and pages are something that is currently on our road map of 
systems/services to improve and Ill certainly note this incidence as feedback for that team to 
factor in the updates and improvements they are looking into.
I note Ms H says she wasnt advised that the investment in the fund wasnt possible until 
she clicked on the invest button, but it wasnt for AJ Bell to advise her in any case because 
this wasnt an advised sale. In this instance, on balance I think it would have been Ms Hs 
responsibility to confirm if the fund was still available and the account did what she wanted it 
to do. 
On balance it seems Ms H was aware that the fund wasnt available on other platforms and 
this possibly may have led her to continue without making additional checks although it 
ought to have rung alarm bells. Im aware she googled the fund before being directed to AJ 
Bell. 
But, Im also aware that the FCA announced a ban on the sale of crypto-derivatives to retail 
customers back in October 2020  following discussions in August 2020  with this coming into force in January 2021. I think Ms H ought reasonably to have been aware of this, as she 
was acting on a non-advised basis. If she didnt, its not something I can blame AJ Bell for.  
In other words, if the fund was the only reason why Ms H opened the account, and it wasnt 
available on other platforms, and the FCA announced the ban four months prior, it might 
have been sensible for Ms H to check with AJ Bell that the fund was still available (for new 
customers like her) before going ahead, despite what the research pages showed.   
I appreciate Ms H feels says that the FCA banning trading in cryptos isnt related, but Im of 
the opinion that it is. Its fundamentally why AJ Bell was no longer able to offer trading on the 
fund and so the issues are related.  
I understand that Ms H ended up putting the money into a cash investment because she 
decided the stock trading offering wasnt suitable for her and she had somewhere else 
where she could do it for free. 
I note Ms H said:
Only when I realized that the fund that they were advertising was not available did I decide 
to put it in a cash account that I did not need as I did not want to go through the hassle of 
taking the money out as their custody charges for stocks did not suit my needs.
She also said:
I already had plenty of cash invested in other institutions but as it was a hassle to move
the funds, I placed them in a cash account.
On balance Im satisfied that Ms H did so of her own volition and without any advice or 
assistance from the business. In the circumstances, despite what she says, Im unable to 
safely say that the business is at fault for her decision. In my opinion Ms H had the option to 
take her money out immediately or transfer elsewhere and ask AJ Bell to refund any charges 
made, but she didnt. In the circumstances, I cant ask the business to compensate Ms H for 
a missed opportunity that wasnt an opportunity in the first place.    
 
Im aware Ms H feels that not being able to trade/invest in her chosen fund is deserving of 
compensation  I note she feels its unethical the business hasnt offered her any 
compensation  but I dont agree as the issue that arose wasnt the result of any wrongdoing 
by the business that requires compensation. 
I also note Ms H wants compensation for lost potential financial gains but Im unable to 
compensate her for hypothetical losses in this case. I note AJ Bell says: you currently have 
no cash in your Dealing Account and have not deposited anything in it since January 2021, 
incurring no charges or material disadvantage as a result of this. 
I appreciate Ms H will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask AJ Bell to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman