DRN-3960218
The complaint
Mr S complains about the suitability of the advice provided by AJH Financial Services Ltd 
(AJH) in October 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr S is represented in this complaint by a law firm (the Representative).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 3 January 2023 in which I set out the
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
In March 2016, Mr Ss employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the 
announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, the 
BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr S, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr S to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Ss safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 21 years and 2 months qualifying service between January 1996 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his 
annual scheme pension was £21,703.56. The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount. 
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at 65 was 
£29,890 or a reduced pension of £19,809 plus tax-free cash of £132,061. And at 58 it 
was £19,125 or a reduced pension of £13,294 plus tax-free cash of £88,630;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £528,133.14. 
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He decided that he wanted transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits away to a new private arrangement. He contacted AJH to obtain 
advice and to facilitate the transaction. He initially met one of its advisers in August 2017. A 
fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire were completed which recorded the 
following information about Mr S:
He was aged 51, in good health, married and had two financially dependent children 
aged 18 and 21. He didnt wish to include his wife in his financial planning as they 
were about to separate, and he expected to be divorced by the time he retired;
He was employed by Tata Steel and was paid gross annual income of about 
£70,000. He intended to continue working for Tata Steel until retirement. He ideally 
wanted to retire at age 58 but no later than age 60;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since                   
March 2017. The total annual contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his annual 
salary, which was about £11,000 in monetary terms. This would increase in line with 
changes to his salary. He also had an old PPP but details of this, including its value, 
werent recorded. He expected to receive a full State pension (at age 67);
His assets comprised the marital home valued at £250,000 and cars worth about 
£15,000. He didnt have any savings or investments other than the value of his 
pension arrangements;
His liabilities comprised a mortgage of £30,000 on the marital home which was due 
to be repaid in 2022 and credit card debt of £9,000;
His monthly outgoings were £1,700 meaning he had surplus disposable income of 
about £2,000.
He was an inexperienced investor. His risk profile was determined to be 4 on a scale 
of 1 to 10, where 1 was lowest risk and 10 highest risk. The rating of 4 was described 
by AJH as Lowest Medium risk.AJH recorded that Mr S had several objectives attached to his safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS, summarised as follows:
Control: He was concerned about the financial security of the BSPS and the 
prospect that the value of his benefits could be reduced in the future following a 
transfer to either the BSPS2 or PPF. As a result, he wanted to break ties with the 
BSPS and transfer away to remove the risk of reduced benefits;
Flexibility and early retirement: He wanted the ability to draw benefits flexibly so 
that he could choose when and how to take these, ideally from age 58 but no later 
than age 60; and
Death benefits: He wanted to maximise the level of death benefits payable to his 
children in the event of his early death and to provide them with flexibility in how they
would be paid. He wasnt interested in the prescribed death benefits offered by either 
the BSPS2 or PPF, especially since he expected to be divorced by the time he 
retired.
In October 2017, AJH issued its suitability report recommending that Mr S transfer the value 
of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP and invest it in different proportions in 
three of the providers funds to align with his Lowest Medium risk profile. It confirmed the 
reasons why it recommended a transfer to a PPP in favour of the PPF and BSPS2 options 
for the following reasons:
You can invest in investment funds that have the potential for growth over the longer 
term
You are able to access your pension benefits from age 55
The death benefits are completely tax free before the age of 75 when paid to your 
beneficiaries and only taxable at their marginal rate of tax after 75.
When taking benefits there are no restrictions on the amount of money you can 
withdraw at any one time.
You are to be able to vary the underlying funds and risks within the pension to reflect 
any changes in your personal circumstances.
You do not want the inconvenience and cost associated with moving your pension 
provision from one provider to another every time you move between different stages 
in your retirement plan. The Flexible Retirement Account caters for most aspects of 
retirement planning needs, from tax-efficient savings in the Personal Pension option 
through to provision of your income in retirement through the Drawdown option.
Mr S accepted the recommendation. The pension transfer was completed in                           
November 2017. The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in AJHs 
suitability report. These charges were to be deducted from Mr Ss PPP, summarised as 
follows:
Initial charge
£1,000  initial adviser charge payable to AJH
Ongoing annual charges based on the PPP fund value0.50% adviser charge  to provide ongoing advice payable to AJH 
1.11% fund charge  payable to the PPP provider
This complaint
In 2021, the Representative, on behalf of Mr S, complained to AJH about the suitability of its 
pension transfer advice. AJH didnt uphold this complaint and so the Representative referred 
the matter to this Service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because she thought that AJHs recommendation to transfer wasnt in Mr Ss best 
interests and was therefore unsuitable. To put things right, our investigator recommended 
that AJH carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the 
basis that Mr S opted for the PPF (rather than the BSPS2) and would be a 20% income 
taxpayer in retirement. In addition, she recommended that AJH pay Mr S £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr S, responded and stated that when the prospect of the 
BSPS2 was first announced in 2016, it was intended to provide most members with better 
benefits than the PPF. It said it had taken advice from an actuary who confirmed that the 
only individuals who wouldve been better off in the PPF were those retiring early and very 
close to that early retirement age at the time of the transfer. It noted that Mr S was aged 51 
at the time of the advice and, while he was interested in taking benefits early and no later 
than age 60, there wasnt any concrete evidence that hed be able to retire early. He was 
therefore not in the small minority for whom the PPF was the better option. So it didnt agree 
with our investigators view that the PPF was likely the better option for Mr S or that it should 
be used for comparison purposes in the redress calculation. Rather, it thought that the 
BSPS2 should be used for comparison purposes and on the basis that Mr S would likely 
take benefits at age 65.
AJH didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided substantial comments in 
response. In summary, it stated that it had complied with and considered the FCAs rules 
and guidance, including making Mr S aware of the risks associated with the transaction. It 
was satisfied it had taken reasonable steps to demonstrate suitability and that the transfer 
was in his best interests taking into account his objectives and wider financial situation. It 
stated that before engaging its services, Mr S had already made his mind up about 
transferring. And so it believed he wouldve transferred anyway regardless of its advice. 
Nevertheless, it stated that Mr S hadnt suffered a financial loss and, to prove this, was 
prepared to settle this complaint on the basis it sourced the most favourable lifetime annuity 
based on Mr Ss circumstances. In essence, it believed that Mr S should be compelled to 
secure a lifetime annuity to replicate the format of a scheme pension.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr S, rejected AJHs offer and stated that he preferred 
redress to be based on the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
Our investigator considered the additional comments received from AJH but wasnt 
persuaded to change her opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, our investigator 
stated that this complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regardingnew pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked the Representative to 
confirm with Mr S, in the event this complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred 
redress to be calculated on the current methodology or the updated guidance expected to be 
implemented in early 2023. The Representative confirmed that Mr S would prefer redress on 
the current methodology set out in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When considering whats fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the 
Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this decision isnt to repeat or address every single point 
raised by AJH and the Representative on behalf of Mr S. If I havent commented on any 
specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
AJH was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its recommendation to 
Mr S. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the rules and consider 
the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs 
Handbook.
Primarily, AJH was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr S. The suitability rules 
and guidance that applied when AJH provided its recommendation to Mr S were set out in 
COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure 
theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and 
risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 
9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific rules and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Ss case  these were contained in                    
COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of AJHs recommendation, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance.
Mr Ss situation
The situation at the time AJH advised Mr S wasnt normal because the existing DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS, was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a new scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr S. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr S had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, AJH.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr S to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the 
BSPS2. For deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr S, the PPF 
would provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age of 65 (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date when needs could be determined with
greater accuracy than at age 51  the PPF didnt offer these additional features.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr S still had the option to retain guaranteed 
pension income in either the PPF or BSPS2. Due to his age and circumstances, its my view 
Mr S wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF based on what was 
known at that time including the uncertainty concerning whether he would, in fact, be able to 
retire earlier than 65.
Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits, its my fair and reasonable opinion that AJH 
shouldve started its advice process by assuming the BSPS2 was suitable for Mr S and to 
only recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests.
AJHs advice to Mr S
In responding to this complaint, AJH stated that before engaging its services, Mr S had 
already made his mind up about transferring and it was always his intention to do this. And 
so it believed he wouldve transferred anyway regardless of its advice. Notwithstanding this 
point, it stated that, when advising Mr S, it had complied with and considered the FCAs rules 
and guidance including making him aware of the risks associated with the transaction. This 
included making him aware that, in its view, the critical yield figure attached to the proposed 
transfer was unlikely to be achieved meaning, from an economic point of view, hed be 
worse off  Ive covered this in more detail below. But it nevertheless advised him to transfer 
to achieve his objectives for control, flexibility and to leave a legacy for his children on death. 
I recognise that there wasnt a perfect solution for Mr S. And that his safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. Due to the changes happening 
to the BSPS, he was forced to make a decision. Its my view that he was relying on AJH to 
provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into account all the information 
available to it at that time  so that he could then make an informed decision. I understand 
that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions 
or concerns about the financial health of an employer or DB pension scheme but, as the 
professional party, AJH was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing 
an appropriately balanced view of the available options.
In my view, disclosure of risks isnt the same as suitability. In other words, just because AJH 
told Mr S that the critical yield was unlikely to be achieved doesnt absolve it from any 
responsibility for the suitability of the transaction. In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever course of action a client wishes to take. If an 
advising business considers a course of action to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise 
not in their best interests, it has the option not to facilitate the transaction.
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time AJH advised Mr S. This required it to carry out a transfer 
value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical 
yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, after 
charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on 
the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity 
at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the 
alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension 
payable by the DB pension scheme.
AJH calculated the following critical yield figures:
Scheme At age 58 based
on a full pensionAt age 58 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based
on a full pensionAt age 65 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 13.7% 10.1% 8.5% 6.9%
PPF *not stated in the 
suitability report9.2% *not stated in the 
suitability report5.1%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time AJH 
advised Mr S that the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but lower 
than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 at age 65 likely fell somewhere in 
between the figures above.
AJHs recommendation to Mr S was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses weren't
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able
to refer to and published by this Service for the period before October 2017 is 4.1% based 
on Mr S taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65 and 3.3% based on him 
taking benefits at age 58 in line with his early retirement objective. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
In my view, the discount rate and FCA projection rates when compared to the critical yield 
figures imply that Mr S wouldve needed to accept a high-risk investment approach to 
provide the potential for the sort of investment returns required to match the critical yield 
figures noted above. But that would only come with accepting the risk of significant 
investment loss. This is because the relationship between risk and reward is closely related. 
I note that Mr S was recorded as having a Lowest Medium risk profile. The evidence Ive 
seen indicates that he had very limited investment knowledge and experience before this pension transfer. At the time of AJHs advice, he didnt have any savings or investments 
other than an old PPP and had recently joined Tata Steels DC pension scheme. Theres no 
evidence that Mr S had experience of investing significant sums of money. 
Given the critical yield figures applicable in this case, I think that there was limited scope for 
the PPP to provide benefits that matched the relinquished benefits, let alone exceed them. 
And it seems that AJH agrees because in its suitability report, when expressing its view on 
the critical yields, it stated, In my opinion, as it is your intention to retire early, if based on 
the Critical Yield alone, the level of growth required to purchase an annuity to match the 
benefits from the existing Scheme of 10.1% based on a joint life and Tax Free Cash being 
taken, I do not believe is achievable, particularly taking into consideration your objectives 
and the low annuity rates currently available.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this taking into account Mr Ss objectives 
regarding control, flexibility and early retirement, and death benefits.
Control objective
Given the level of uncertainty surrounding the BSPS at the time, I can understand that Mr S 
was concerned about the financial security of his safeguarded benefits and so wanted to 
have control over these by transferring them away to a PPP. 
It was noted in the suitability report in reference to Mr S, You are still employed by Tata 
Steel, and have concerns over the solvency of the pension fund and whilst this has been 
alleviated to some extent, the indication that the BSPS will go to the Pension Protection 
Fund [PPF] still gives you cause for concern. 
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr S could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of AJHs recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained robust 
with an increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. So there wasnt any reason at that time to 
question the financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Had AJH advised Mr S to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable,
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income
and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at 51. I think this is a key point.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr S had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP before any 
transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate concern about 
options disappearing for Mr S or that there was an urgency to transfer to a PPP at that time 
to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr S was reliant on AJH to provide a fair and 
balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mr S the features, risks and benefits of those 
alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr S was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on AJH to provide 
expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. The suitability report doesnt deal 
with Mr Ss concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought a transfer to the PPF was an 
outcome to avoid at all costs and probably reinforced his view that a transfer to a PPP was 
the best course of action.
In summary, I think that AJH failed to adequately allay Mr Ss misapprehensions and that he 
therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position regarding 
the BSPS2 and PPF.
Flexibility and early retirement objective
It was recorded that Mr S wanted to retire at age 58 but no later than 60. The fact find 
document recorded that he required monthly income of about £1,000 in retirement.
In its suitability report, AJH recorded that it recommended the pension transfer to a PPP to 
enable Mr S to flexibly access his safeguarded benefits early. I think its clear that Mr S was 
attracted to a flexible arrangement. But Im not convinced, based on the evidence provided, 
that he had a genuine need to access his safeguarded benefits flexibly with varying levels of 
income and lump sums during retirement. The evidence indicates that when he retired that 
hed likely require a steady, secure income stream for the rest of his life.
A key point here is that Mr S couldnt access the money in the PPP until age 55 at the 
earliest. So I dont think there was any need to transfer his safeguarded benefits at age 51, 
especially given the high critical yield figures attached to the transaction.
Mr S was nine years away from his target of retiring no later than age 60. While I dont doubt 
he wouldve liked the flexibility to draw any level of benefit he wanted, plans can change over 
such a long period of time, particularly since it was noted he and his wife were about to 
separate and that he expected to be divorced by the time he retired. It was recorded that he 
didnt have any savings or investments other than the value of his pension arrangements. So 
it seems to me there was the possibility that, as part of the divorce settlement, Mr S would 
be required to relinquish part of his pension arrangements given their significant value 
relative to what was recorded about his wider wealth  a reduction in pension income would 
likely mean Mr S would have to delay his plans for early retirement. I acknowledge that no 
information was recorded about his wifes personal assets and how this might impact the 
expected divorce settlement but that just underlines the uncertainty.
AJH portrayed the PPP option in the suitability report as allowing for early retirement without 
the penalties which would be applied to the PPF or BSPS2 options. The reality was of 
course that the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier at age 60 and any 
resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was explained to Mr S so 
that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would likely lead to 
reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at age 65. 
So, given the timeframe of nine years and expected divorce, I think its fair to say that in 
2017 it was uncertain what Mr Ss financial situation might look like in the future and whether he could, in fact, retire no later than age 60. Theres inadequate evidence that AJH 
considered what impact the expected divorce could have on Mr Ss future financial situation 
or its recommendation.
But if I assume it was a realistic objective that Mr S could retire at 60, and assuming the 
divorce settlement didnt reduce his retirement provision, I make the following observations.
I note that Mr S had been an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme since 
March 2017. He and his employer were, in total, contributing 16% of his gross annual salary 
of about £70,000 into his DC pension plan, which was about £11,000 in monetary terms. 
This would increase in line with increases in his salary. He intended to continue working for 
Tata Steel until retirement. In the event Mr S left that employment, I think its likely that hed 
find alternative employment, albeit perhaps outside the steel industry, and, with the legal 
requirements of auto-enrolment, would join a different DC pension scheme and pay a 
minimum of 8% of his earnings into it. So I think its fair to say that over the nine year period 
to age 60, its likely that Mr S would build up significant DC pension savings  the 
contributions alone over that nine year period would be about £100,000, ignoring any 
investment growth.
So if Mr S did have a genuine need for flexible benefits no later than age 60, it seems that 
this this couldve been met in the first instance by using his significant DC pension savings. 
This course of action wouldve likely enabled Mr S to achieve his monthly income need of 
£1,000 for the five-year period from age 60 until he could take unreduced benefits from the 
BSPS2 at 65. 
As noted above, the projected revalued pension payable by the BSPS was £29,890 at age 
65. I acknowledge that the annual pension payable by the BSPS2 wouldve been lower, but I 
think its fair to say that even the lower figure would be sufficient to meet Mr Ss recorded 
monthly income need from age 65. This would then be followed by the full state pension at 
67.
So, from 65 onwards, most of Mr Ss core retirement income need couldve been met by 
guaranteed and escalating pensions which wouldve offered some inflation protection unlike 
the recommended PPP. And if it turned out the DC pension savings didnt provide adequate 
income for the full five-year period between 60 and 65, Mr S couldve taken his benefits from 
BSPS2 at some point in between, meaning the early retirement factor wouldnt be as great 
as at age 60. Alternatively, he couldve considered a transfer to a PPP at that time, if then 
deemed suitable, when his retirement income and lump sum needs could be determined 
with far greater accuracy than at 51.
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with 
providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr S. But I dont 
think he needed to take on these risks at that time for the reasons explained above.
The course of action recommended by AJH led to Mr S concentrating most of his retirement 
benefits on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based entirely on investment 
performance. The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested above likely wouldve 
enabled Mr S to achieve early retirement and income objectives but with significantly less 
risk. I havent seen evidence that AJH adequately considered and discounted this alternative 
course of action. The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why 
flexibility wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr S to relinquish valuable 
benefit guarantees at that time. In conclusion, while I understand Mr Ss reasons and motivations for flexible benefits and 
early retirement, I dont think AJH clearly demonstrated why it was in his best interests to 
relinquish his safeguarded benefits at that time to achieve future flexibility, especially given 
the level of uncertainty about Mr Ss future financial situation. I simply dont agree the 
perceived advantage of flexibility and control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits 
offered by the BSPS2. 
Death benefits objective
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are 
taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately 
following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr S could draw any benefits from 
55 onwards, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at 
least 4 years.
But Mr S was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
The value of Mr Ss safeguarded benefits would represent the backbone of his retirement 
provision by the time he came to retire. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet his 
income and lump sum needs from age 60 would likely mean that the size of the fund 
remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected.
If it was a genuine objective for Mr S to provide a lump sum to his children on his death, then 
life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him 
to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mr S had disposable income 
available every month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay for life cover to 
achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a defined term is generally cheap 
and some cover may have been affordable for Mr S given he was aged 51 and recorded as 
being in good health. However, I cannot see evidence that AJH adequately investigated the 
life cover option. For example, I havent seen evidence that it quantified Mr Ss death lump 
sum need, over what term, how this might change over time, how it might be met by other 
means or present personalised life cover quotes to him to enable him to make an informed 
decision.
But, in any case, I note that through his employment, Mr S had life cover based on a multiple 
of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £280,000 would be paid in the event 
he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable regardless of whether his 
safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. In addition, the value of his 
Tata Steel DC pension plan and other old PPP (details of which werent obtained by AJH) 
would be paid as a lump sum to his nominated beneficiary(ies). So, it seems to me that in 
the immediate future, certainly while Mr S remained employed by Tata Steel, that a lump 
sum of at least £280,000 would be paid on his death. It was noted that Mr S intended to 
remain employed by Tata Steel until he retired.
So I think its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits bearing in mind the cover already in place while Mr S remained 
employed by Tata Steel. With no immediate health concerns, this existing cover enabled AJH and Mr S enough time to properly investigate obtaining additional life cover so that he 
could maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2.
Its my view that Mr S had no health issues at the time AJH advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement 
income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his children. So Im not convinced there 
was any real merit in Mr S transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death 
benefit. Theres no real evidence that a death lump sum was required for his children.
If properly informed, would Mr S have transferred anyway?
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was in Mr Ss
best interests and that AJHs recommendation could therefore be regarded as suitable
in the circumstances. So I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of AJHs advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr S, if placed
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr S, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on AJH, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice regardless of his own views. Given Mr Ss reliance on AJH to provide 
expert advice, I think its unlikely, on balance, he wouldve transferred to a PPP against its 
advice had it advised him to opt for the BSPS2 instead.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was fair
compensation on the basis that Mr S had instead opted for the BSPS2. I asked both parties 
to this complaint to provide any further comments or evidence that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. 
The Representatives response to my provisional decision
Mr Ss Representative acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. It didnt provide any 
additional comments or evidence for me to consider.
AJHs response to my provisional decision
AJH didnt accept my provisional decision and provided substantial comments in response. 
These additional points can be summarised as follows:
FCA rules and guidance: It said that it had adhered to all relevant FCA rules and 
guidance when it advised Mr S. And that it treated him fairly and always acted in his 
best interests including providing him enough information to make an informed 
decision;
Mr Ss understanding: Mr S had received the Time to Choose pack and other 
information that meant he was aware of the three options available to him including 
that the BSPS2 and PPF options provided guaranteed income. But he wasnt 
interested in guaranteed income and preferred flexible benefits provided by a PPP;
Mr Ss objectives: I was inexplicably fixated on Mr S wanting to retain his 
safeguarded benefits and providing a legacy on death to his children. It thought that I had ignored Mr Ss recorded objectives including his desire to maximise tax-free 
cash. It said that Mr S didnt wish to pay for life cover so reference to it in my 
provisional decision was irrelevant. In its view, Mr Ss objectives and retirement 
income need couldnt be met by either the BSPS2 or PPF;
Mr Ss divorce: It was fully aware that Mr S intended to divorce before retirement 
and had considered the impact this would have on his retirement plans when 
formulating its recommendation. It said that Mr Ss wife was seeking to obtain 50% of 
his pension savings and 70% of the equity in the marital home. It questioned how              
Mr S couldve agreed a divorce settlement with the same outcome at age 55 using 
either the BSPS2, PPF and his Tata Steel DC pension plan. 
Mr Ss investment experience: It disagreed with my view that Mr S didnt have any 
experience of investing large sums of money since he was an active member of the 
Tata Steel DC pension scheme;
Timing: It didnt agree that Mr S shouldve delayed a decision to transfer. This was 
because it was known that any transfer value offered by the BSPS2 in the future 
would be less and so, had he delayed, hed have been worse off. Notwithstanding 
this, transferring at that time enabled him to obtain tax-free cash at age 55 based on 
the higher transfer value offered by the BSPS;
Change of adviser: Since its advice, Mr S had changed financial adviser which had 
resulted in him paying higher ongoing fees than it was charging him;
Suitable option: It doesnt agree that the BSPS2 was the most suitable option for  
Mr S. This is evidenced by the fact that at age 55 he crystallised money from his PPP 
by taking tax-free cash and zero income, an option that wouldnt have been available 
under the BSPS2. Mr Ss actions since the pension transfer clearly show that he 
wanted and has used the flexibility provided by the PPP. It questioned why if Mr S 
was so convinced that the advice was unsuitable he still hadnt secured a lifetime 
annuity with the value of his PPP. In its view, the fact that Mr S hadnt secured a 
lifetime annuity supported its position the pension transfer was suitable;
Financial loss: It had performed a loss calculation that showed, as at January 2023, 
Mr S hadnt suffered a financial loss but had instead made a financial gain. So, in its 
view, Mr S is now in a better financial position because of its advice since he can 
currently secure a lifetime annuity that would provide a higher level of income than 
the BSPS2, but he has failed to do so; and
Legal proceedings: It said that if I proceed to issue a final decision upholding this 
complaint that it will instigate legal proceedings by bringing a judicial review 
challenging my decision.
On 25 May 2023, our investigator wrote to AJH and the Representative to tell them that the 
FCA had developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress due under the 
BSPS consumer redress scheme. And that the FCA was encouraging businesses to use that 
calculator for non-scheme cases, such as this complaint made by Mr S. Our investigator 
stated that in my final decision I may direct AJH to use the FCAs calculator. So she invited 
the parties to provide any additional comments they wanted me to consider before making 
my decision.
AJH responded and stated that it intended to use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress 
calculator. It requested that this Service provide it with the fund value of Mr Ss PPP as at              1 April 2023 and a copy of the Time to Choose booklet issued to him by the BSPS in 
October 2017.
The Representative responded and stated that a Pension Sharing Order applies to Mrs Ss 
pensions benefits because of his divorce. And that AJH may therefore need to seek actuarial 
support when calculating Mr Ss financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Before going any further, Id like to apologise to the parties for the length of time it has taken 
me to issue this final decision after issuing my provisional decision on 3 January 2023. The 
reason for the delay was mainly because this Service was waiting for clarification from the 
FCA about whether businesses should be required to use its redress calculator non-BSPS 
consumer redress scheme cases. Clarification from the FCA has now been received and so 
Im now able to set out my final decision below.
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this
final decision. Ive carefully considered AJHs comments in response to my provisional 
decision. In my view, most of its comments concern events after its pension transfer advice 
in 2017 and a reimagining of his circumstances and objectives at the time of its advice. As 
set out in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint, its necessary for me to have 
due regard to the contemporaneous evidence only  anything that happened after the 
pension transfer is essentially irrelevant in deciding whether AJH provided a suitable 
recommendation to Mr S. So I wont comment on events after its advice.
AJH agrees that the critical yield figures attached to the transaction were unlikely to be met 
and that Mr S would, as a result of the pension transfer to the PPP, likely be financially 
worse off from an economic point view when comparing the benefits on a like-for-like basis 
to the DB pension scheme. Theres no dispute about this. I explicitly stated that financial 
viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice, as set out in COBS 
19.1.7B (G). And that there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. So in deciding this complaint I havent merely 
focused on the critical yield.
AJH has set out what it believes those other considerations were and why it continues to 
believe that a pension transfer was the most suitable course of action for Mr S in favour of 
the BSPS2 and PPF options. AJH said that in my provisional decision, I had inexplicably 
fixated on Mr S retaining his safeguarded benefits and providing a legacy on death to his 
children and that I had ignored Mr Ss recorded objectives. AJH said that Mr S wanted to 
take the maximum tax-free cash at age 55. It also said that his income need wouldnt have 
been met by alternative options from age 55. And that Mr S had investment experience of 
managing large sums as a result of being a member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme 
and understood the risks attached to the pension transfer.
But the contemporaneous evidence simply doesnt support this. My provisional findings were 
based on what was recorded at the time  and this clearly shows that Mr S had three broad objectives relating to control, flexibility and early retirement from age 58 but no later than age 
60 and to maximise the level of death benefits payable to his children. The basis of AJHs 
advice wasnt built around Mr S taking benefits at age 55. My view remains the same that  
Mr S would likely rely on the value of his safeguarded benefits to provide secure income in 
retirement. AJH said that Mr S didnt wish to pay for life cover so my reference to it in my 
provisional decision was irrelevant. But, as I set out above, I cannot see evidence that AJH 
adequately investigated the life cover option. So its not clear how it can conclude that he 
wasnt prepared to pay for life cover when theres inadequate evidence that it was properly 
considered and discounted.
Mr S joined the Tata Steel DC pension scheme in March 2017, several months before AJH 
advised him and so had limited investment experience. So I dont agree with its view about 
Mr S having experience of investing significant sums. It remains my view that he was an 
inexperienced investor and was reliant on AJH to provide expert advice.
As for Mr Ss impending divorce, AJH said that it was fully aware that he intended to divorce 
before retirement and had considered the impact this would have on his retirement plans in 
formulating its recommendation. If thats the case, then I wouldve expected it to mention it in 
its suitability report. But theres no reference to Mr Ss impending divorce, how this might 
impact his retirement plans or how this was factored into the recommendation to transfer to 
the PPP. So Im not convinced that AJH properly considered Mr Ss personal situation and 
how this might affect its recommendation. I think given the uncertainty that Mr S shouldve 
been advised to transfer to the BSPS2.
I agree that Mr S was aware of the three options available to him, as set out in my 
provisional decision. But he wasnt an expert and had appointed AJH to provide suitable 
advice. For the reasons set out, I think it failed to provide a suitable recommendation.
It remains my view that AJH didnt clearly demonstrate, on the contemporaneous evidence, 
that the pension transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. So I think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint. In conclusion, nothing AJH has said in its response to my provisional 
decision changes my opinion on the merits of this complaint. 
I acknowledge AJHs threat that if I proceed to issue a final decision upholding this complaint 
that it will instigate legal proceedings by bringing a judicial review to challenge my decision. 
Thats its prerogative. The threat of legal action doesnt alter my view on what I think is a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for AJH to put Mr S, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. 
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr S wouldve opted for the PPF on the 
basis that she was satisfied retiring no later than age 60 was an achievable objective for               
Mr S. I disagree for the reasons explained in my provisional decision. Given the timeframe of 
nine years and expected divorce, I think its fair to say that in 2017 it was sufficiently uncertain what Mr Ss financial situation might look like in the future and whether he could, in 
fact, retire no later than age 60. 
With these factors in mind, Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2017 
that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr S. And so I think, given the lack of clarity 
surrounding Mr Ss ability to retire early, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him 
based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher 
level of benefits than the PPF.
In summary, as set out in my provisional decision, I think its likely that, properly advised,              
Mr S wouldve envisaged accessing any DC pension savings in the first instance to meet his 
income and lump sum needs before starting to take his safeguarded benefits from the 
BSPS2. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. 
In response to our investigators assessment, AJH stated that Mr S hadnt suffered a 
financial loss and, to prove this, was prepared to settle this complaint on the basis it sourced 
the most favourable lifetime annuity based on Mr Ss circumstances. In essence, it believes 
that Mr S should be compelled to secure a lifetime annuity to replicate the format of a 
scheme pension rather than continuing to enjoy the flexibility provided by the recommended 
PPP. Its evident that Mr S will benefit from flexibility by virtue of the position hes in now. But 
that has only arisen because of the unsuitable advice provided by AJH. And ultimately the 
FCA has set out what it deems to be appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable 
DB pension transfer advice. I see no reason to depart from the FCAs guidance in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
AJH must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
AJH should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the Representative on behalf of Mr S and 
our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr S hasnt yet retired, and, as far as Im aware, has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ss 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, AJH should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr S accepts AJHs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, AJH may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, AJH should pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
AJH should note that a Pension Sharing Order applies to Mr Ss pensions benefits because 
of his divorce. Therefore, AJH may need to seek actuarial support when calculating  Mr Ss 
financial loss.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint. I require AJH Financial Services 
Ltd to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require AJH 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that
AJH Financial Services Ltd pays Mr S the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S. If Mr S accepts this final 
decision, the money award becomes binding on AJH Financial Services Ltd. My 
recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept this final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
I understand that Mr S has changed financial advisers and is no longer a client of AJH 
Financial Services Ltd. To enable AJH Financial Services Ltd to carry out the loss 
assessment, Mr S will need to agree to provide it such information as necessary to complete 
the calculation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman