DRN-3722852
The complaint
Mr H complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (APS) hasnt 
assisted him in a dispute over a payment made for scuba diving lessons.
What happened
The complaint has its roots in a purchase of 5 scuba diving lessons for Mr Hs partners two 
children. These were paid for at a diving school (S), at a cost of £125 per child, using 
Mr Hs APS credit card. The two sets of lessons were billed as a single transaction of £250.
In a provisional decision I issued on this complaint on 9 September 2022, I went on to 
describe what had then happened as follows:
The children had their first lesson at the diving school on 8 March 2020, after receiving 
some learning materials. Mr H didnt think the session was well organised and was 
disappointed at how little pool-time the children received. He raised his concerns with the 
school on 15 March 2020 and again on 18 March 2020. In response to the latter email S 
replied that lessons were postponed due to the pandemic. Then, on 23 March 2020, the UK 
went into lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic and pools were closed. Mr H contacted S 
on 28 March 2020 to request a refund and, having not received a response, contacted APS 
to dispute the payment to S.
APS attempted whats known as a chargeback to claim a refund for Mr H. Having received 
notice of the chargeback, S chose to contest it. APS sent the details of Ss response to Mr H 
for his comments. He sent these promptly, but it appeared APS didnt receive his email and 
decided not to take the chargeback further.
Mr H had also asked APS to consider honouring a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). However, it didnt take this forward. Dissatisfied with APSs 
response, Mr H referred the matter to this service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators had looked into the case and concluded that APS hadnt handled 
matters well but that, even if they had, Mr Hs dispute over the lessons would have been 
unsuccessful. Mr H appealed our investigators findings and the case was passed to me to 
decide.
In my provisional decision I considered three issues  the chargeback process; a potential 
claim under section 75 of the CCA; and the level of customer service provided by APS 
throughout. Ill summarise briefly what I said in my provisional decision about each below:
Chargeback
A chargeback is a means of disputing a card payment via the dispute resolution 
system administered by the card scheme to which the card in question belongs. In 
Mr Hs case this was Mastercard.
Chargebacks must adhere to rules set by the card scheme, which include rules about 
what kind of disputes can be raised and the time limits in which disputes must be 
brought. The process is not guaranteed to succeed and can be contested by the 
other side to the dispute. There are various levels of escalation or appeal for disputes 
within the scheme.
Id normally expect a card issuer to attempt a chargeback if it had a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding. I wouldnt normally expect it to continue disputing a matter 
unless it was obvious the defence submitted by the merchant was wrong or 
otherwise inadequate. 
APS had raised a chargeback in Mr Hs case but it had been defended by S, which 
had argued one lesson had been received, along with learning materials, and that the 
remaining lessons could be taken up as soon as pools reopened. APS asked Mr H 
for his comments on this, which he gave, but APS had somehow been able to lose 
his email and decided not to take the chargeback further.
Although APS had made an error in losing the email, I didnt consider a chargeback 
would likely have been successful and Id not have expected APS to pursue the 
matter further. I said this was because the flexible nature of the packages of diving 
lessons meant that S was not tied to a specific series or set of dates by which it was 
bound to provide the lessons. So the fact that it was unable to deliver the lessons for 
a time due to pandemic restrictions would not necessarily mean that Mr H had a 
good argument that S had failed to provide the services paid for. It appears still to 
have been willing to provide the rest of the lessons. This wasnt convenient for Mr H 
as the lessons had been intended to prepare for an upcoming holiday, and in light of 
that I can understand why he wanted to cancel and receive a refund. But it doesnt 
mean he was entitled to one via a chargeback.
Section 75
Section 75 allows a consumer who has paid by credit card for goods or services to 
make a claim against their credit card provider for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services, subject to certain 
conditions being met.
The law says it is Mr H, as the credit card owner, who needs to have a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against S. But it seemed to have been his 
partner who entered the contract and organised the payment, and it would be difficult 
for Mr H to make a claim for a breach of contract he was not a party to.  
Even if this wasnt correct however, and Mr H could theoretically make such a claim, 
it would run into the same difficulties as the chargeback. The contract with S was 
flexible and didnt specify particular dates, or a window of time in which the lessons 
were meant to have taken place. S had said, before the children had been signed up, 
that We are very flexible with the dates  you choose when youd like to do the 
sessions, as they take place most weekends. It was clear that S couldnt provide the 
remaining lessons for a considerable time due to the pandemic. The relevant 
consumer law says that where no specific time for contractual performance is 
specified, its implied that performance will take place within a reasonable time, 
which was a question of fact. I considered that the fact the lessons couldnt 
practically be provided due to the pandemic should be factored in to this and, taking it 
all into account, it wouldnt be reasonable to conclude that postponing the remaining 
lessons was a breach of contract by S. 
I therefore concluded that had APS considered a section 75 claim from Mr H (as hed requested), it wouldnt have been unreasonable of it to decline this.
Customer Service
APSs customer service had been poor following Mr Hs attempt to raise the dispute. 
Despite frequent requests and reminders from Mr H, it had never considered his 
dispute through the lens of section 75. It still hadnt appreciated what Mr H had been 
asking for even after he complained about the way it had handled matters.
APS had admitted that its staff dealing with Mr H had lacked the knowledge to 
appreciate what he had been asking for, but this hadnt made a difference because 
Mr H didnt have a valid dispute in any event. 
While the outcome of the dispute hadnt been affected by APSs errors, I thought 
these had caused Mr H unnecessary annoyance and frustration. I concluded it 
should pay him £100 compensation in respect of this, and ensure it had not charged 
him a £20 fee it had told him it would add to his account if his dispute was 
unsuccessful.  
I asked both parties to let me have any comments they wanted me to consider by 23 
September 2022. Neither Mr H nor APS agreed with my provisional decision.
APS said they thought £100 compensation was too much to pay Mr H and they didnt 
understand why the complaint was being upheld at all. They proposed paying £50 instead.
Mr H said I had misunderstood some of the background. He explained that he had been the 
one who had made the booking with S for the children, had gone with them to the lesson and 
collected the training packs. He said his partner had however needed to sign some 
paperwork because she was the guardian of the children.
Mr H also reiterated his comments about what he considered to be APSs poor handling of 
the dispute and in particular the lost email and lacking communication. Mr H expressed 
some doubt that an email could be lost in this way and considered the company had not 
fulfilled its duties. Finally, Mr H noted that S had not told him about any re-opening or kept 
him updated and that they seemed to have avoided dealing with the issue. He questioned 
how he could have re-booked with them in the absence of any information about when they 
were re-opening.
The case has now been returned to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties to the complaint for their responses to my provisional decision. I will 
address Mr Hs points first.
I agree with Mr H that the service from APS was poor. It does seem less likely that an email 
could have been lost in the sense that a physical document could be lost. Thats not to say 
however, that these things dont happen. Its possible for example, that an email could be 
overlooked by the person who was meant to deal with it, and then be deleted automatically 
from a central mailbox. But whatever the underlying reason, the fact is APS didnt act on the email at the time and were unable to find it later. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think APS dealing with the email correctly would 
have led to a different outcome to the chargeback. It was not obviously a dispute which 
would succeed were it to have been escalated through the chargeback system, and 
therefore I would not have considered APS to have acted unfairly had they read the email 
and decided not to pursue matters further. However, I did think that APSs overall handling of 
the dispute caused Mr H unnecessary annoyance and frustration, and that handling included 
failing to consider the email.
I accept Mr Hs explanation about it being him who had made the booking. But that doesnt 
change whether I think APS should have honoured a section 75 claim. My reasons are 
essentially the same as those I outlined in my provisional decision. Mr H has pointed to a 
lack of communication from the supplier, but theres no evidence to suggest S would have 
failed to provide the remaining lessons once pools had reopened, had he asked. It was 
apparent that Mr H had decided to cancel and ask for a refund very early in the pandemic. In 
the circumstances this was understandable, but it doesnt mean hes necessarily entitled to a 
refund.
Moving on to APSs comments, the reason I am partially upholding the complaint is due to 
the fact its customer service failings caused Mr H more frustration and annoyance than one 
might expect in day to day life. While it ultimately didnt get the answer to Mr Hs dispute 
wrong, the surrounding customer service was poor and the impact of this should be 
recognised. I remain of the view that £100 compensation, and waiving any fees associated 
with handling the dispute, is fair in the circumstances. If APS wishes to learn more about 
how the Financial Ombudsman Service awards compensation of this type, it can visit: 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-complaint/understanding-
compensation/compensation-for-distress-or-inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus to:
Pay Mr H £100 compensation.
Check if it has charged Mr H any fees in respect of the dispute over the payment to 
S, and ensure any such fees charged have been refunded to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman