DRN-2892507
The complaint
Mra A and Mr A complain that when The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) reviewed their existing annuity it didnt fairly take into account the medical 
information supplied when it decided that the annuity payment was correct.
Mr A also complains that having to produce this medical information, long after the 
annuity was set up, has caused him distress and inconvenience, which Prudential has 
not recognised. 
What happened
In 1987, Mr A transferred his personal pension into a Prudential Bond. For ease of 
reference Ill refer to this Bond as the plan. Mr A didnt take any financial advice before 
transferring. He was working in the financial services sector at the time.
In October 2011, Mr A took his benefits, having reached the plan vesting age (65). The 
plan had to provide Mr A with a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). This was a 
minimum amount of pension income payable as a condition of having contracted out of 
the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme through his original personal pension. When 
Prudential accepted the transfer from his personal pension, it agreed to meet this GMP.
In October 2011, Prudential wrote to Mr A explaining that the value of his plan was
£8,014.60.  It went on to say that Mr A would need a fund value of £9,348.03.for a pension at 
the level required by the GMP. Prudential told Mr A it would make up the shortfall as it had 
assumed responsibility for the GMP.
Later in October 2011, Mr A signed Prudentials paperwork to accept the quotation for 
the immediate payment of the GMP benefit.
In September 2018, Prudential contacted Mr A as part of the pensions review into annuity 
sales. The purpose of this review was to establish if the annuity received back in 2011 was 
fair in all the circumstances.
In June 2019, as part of the review process, Prudential contacted Mr A again to obtain 
further information. 
In September 2019, Prudential wrote to Mr A to ask for medical and lifestyle information in 
relation to his wife as it had failed to ask for this previously and it was relevant in terms of 
deciding whether the annuity was fair. Mr A provided this information to Prudential.
In October 2019, Prudential requested additional information. Mr A provided this 
information.
In November 2019, Prudential wrote to Mr A. It accepted that it had not provided 
sufficient information about the availability of enhanced annuities at the time he took out 
the annuity in 2011. This was because relevant medical and/or lifestyle information had 
not been discussed at the time of the annuity purchase.
However, Prudential went on to say that it didnt consider that there had been any 
financial loss as a result of this. This was because even if this information had been 
considered in 2011, gross yearly annuity income on an enhanced basis at the time of 
purchase would have been £413.26 per annum. It said as a gross yearly annuity income 
at the time of purchase of £440.52 per annum was paid to meet the GMP obligation, more 
was received in any event.
Our investigator considered Mrs and Mr As complaint. He did not uphold it. He concluded 
in summary that Prudential had dealt with the review of the annuity in a fair and 
reasonable way and that there had been no financial loss. He also concluded that it was 
not appropriate to make any award for distress and inconvenience arising from the review.
Mrs A and Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, their points were:
There was a requirement on Prudential to pay what the fund originally guaranteed;
this being a legacy annuity.
The matter to be considered was whether there shouldve been an enhancement 
to the annuity for health reasons and this was unconnected to the legacy annuity.
Mr A was medically retired in his early 50s from a successful career. He never fully 
recovered and this all happened a long time before his annuity was put into 
payment in 2011. Mrs A also had health issues. The health and lifestyle 
information wasnt properly and fairly considered when deciding if the annuity 
payable should be enhanced.
It took a considerable amount of time and effort to put the health and lifestyle 
information together that Prudential asked for and this had impacted on Mr As 
wellbeing.
They think they should be paid compensation for the duress and that they should 
receive a joint enhanced annuity.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs and Mr As complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide this complaint, firstly Ill look at whether the review that Prudential carried 
out was carried our fairly and reasonably given the wider context of the pensions 
review. Secondly, Ill consider whether Mrs and Mr A have suffered any financial loss 
as a result of what Prudential did wrong. Thirdly, I will look at whether Mrs and Mr A 
have suffered any non-financial loss as a result of what Prudential has accepted it did 
wrong, for example whether they have been caused distress and inconvenience by its 
actions.
Was the review carried out fairly?
Prudentials letter of October 2011 showed that Mr As fund value at the time was 
£8,014.60 and £9,700.49 was required to meet the GMP. Prudential told Mr A it would 
make up the shortfall, so he received the GMP.
The illustration confirmed the guaranteed pension income of £440.52 per annum plus 
a dependents pension of £220.32 per annum.
Prudential accepts that insufficient information was given to Mr A about enhanced annuities given his and his wifes medical and lifestyle considerations. It conducted a 
review on this basis.
As far as I can see the annuity review was carried out in accordance with the Financial 
Conduct Authority guidelines that apply to these types of reviews. It looks to me that 
Prudential took into account the additional information provided about Mrs and Mr As 
health and lifestyle when calculating the enhanced annuity income figure.
Have Mrs and Mr A lost out financially?
The outcome of the review was that the annuity already in payment was greater than what 
they wouldve received from an enhanced annuity in 2011. The review calculator showed 
they wouldve received an annuity of £413.26 per annum, compared to the annuity they 
were receiving of £440.52 per annum.
The FCA calculator was used to calculate the enhanced annuity likely they wouldve been 
entitled to. Prudential said the calculator was used because it had received assurances 
from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and the independent firm carrying out loss 
assessments, that this was a reliable way to calculate loss. I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Prudential to use this tool, in these circumstances.
Mrs and Mr A consider that the uplift received to bring their annuity to the level of the GMP 
was irrelevant when assessing whether they were entitled to an uplift on health and 
lifestyle grounds. I dont agree. Had the enhanced annuity been higher than the GMP, 
Prudential wouldnt have been contractually bound to pay the annuity at the GMP rate. 
But, it wasnt, so the GMP applied.
Overall, therefore, my conclusion is that Prudential approached this review in a fair and 
reasonable way and that Mrs and Mr A have not suffered any financial loss as the annuity 
they were receiving was greater than the annuity they would otherwise have received if there 
was no GMP in place and they had been given sufficient information about enhanced 
annuities back in 2011. 
Non-financial loss
Had Mrs and Mr A been given correct information in 2011 about the availability of an 
enhanced annuity they wouldve had to provide health and lifestyle information for this to 
be considered. So, in effect, as part of this review, they were being asked to provide 
information that they wouldve had to provide some years before. 
I accept there was a delay in asking for this, and that Mrs and Mr A didnt derive a financial 
benefit from providing it, in the end. But that doesnt mean that Prudential did anything 
wrong by asking them to provide this information. 
Mr A said that having to provide this information had an impact on his health and 
wellbeing.  Whilst I am sorry to hear that, I dont consider that I can hold Prudential 
responsible for that upset. His health issues were long standing ones in 2011 at the time 
the annuity was taken out. So, I think that having to share this necessary information in 
2011, wouldve likely been upsetting then too. I therefore dont consider that I can fairly 
hold Prudential responsible for causing that upset.
In terms of inconvenience, as this was information Mrs and Mr A wouldve had to provide 
earlier in the process if everything had been done right, I dont consider it fair or appropriate 
to make an award, taking into account the overall circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, overall, I do not uphold Mr As complaint and make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman