DRN-4460979
The complaint
Miss Gs complaint is about a mortgage she has with Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
(BoS). She is unhappy that when she made enquiries in 2022 about changing her interest 
rate product early, requiring an early repayment charge (ERC) to be paid, she wasnt told 
that she wouldnt have to pay the ERC until the change in rate was applied. This meant that 
she didnt go ahead with a change and when she became aware of the correct situation and 
had support to pay the ERC, the rates on new products had increased. 
In settlement of the complaint Miss G wants BoS to provide her with a new interest rate 
product equivalent to the one she had wanted when she first contacted it.
What happened
In 2022 Miss G had an existing mortgage with BoS, which had two interest rate products 
attached to it. The interest rate product on most of the mortgage was due to expire at the 
end of January 2023 and that on the remaining part in April 2023. If the mortgage was paid 
off or the products were exited early, an ERC was chargeable until three months before the 
end of the product term if a new one was taken. 
In August 2022 Miss G initially contacted BoS to find out information about leaving the 
interest rate product that was due to end in January 2023 early. It was confirmed she would 
have to pay an ERC to do so at that time. She was told it would be November 2022 before 
the ERC would not be chargeable. Miss G concluded that there was potential benefit to 
paying the ERC. BoS then said that it could look into her doing so, but there was a cost 
upfront. She was then given the amount of the ERC at that date and there was some 
discussion about whether the ERC would decrease each month. The BoS member of staff 
said that he didnt know how the ERC would be affected from month to month and so 
couldnt answer her question. Miss G said that it didnt matter as I havent got it today, . 
She was advised to speak to a mortgage adviser to discuss the implications of taking a new 
product early if and when she wanted to proceed and the call ended.
Miss G spoke to BoS again on 29 September 2022. She wanted to know what the ERC was 
and what products were available to her, as shed been unable to access this information 
online. BoS confirmed she was able to change the product on most of her mortgage on 
1 November 2022 without paying an ERC. She was then given the amount of the ERC for 
the whole mortgage; approximately £1,700. When she questioned that the ERC was not 
much lower than it had been in August, it was confirmed it was calculated as a percentage of 
the outstanding balance, and so it wouldnt change a great deal each month. Miss G was 
given details of the five- and ten-year fixed interest rate products that were available to her 
(3.53% and 3.73% respectively), along with the respective monthly payments that would be 
needed. Miss G speculated about what would happen to interest rates on 1 November and 
BoS confirmed they were expected to go up in November and next month, i.e. October. The 
conversation ended following Miss G commenting in relation to the ERC that she might as 
well wait until Ive made the next payment on the first of October. Itll bring it down slightly, 
wont it? 
Miss G told us that when she spoke to BoS in September 2022 she didnt have the money to 
pay the ERC. However, having discussed the matter with a relative after that conversation, 
she was offered assistance from a relative in paying the ERC and told she should look to 
take action. Miss G tried calling BoS on 30 September 2022, but she was unable to get 
through due to the level of demand on the phone lines. It was not until 5 October 2022 that 
she was able to speak to BoS and by that point the ten-year interest rate product that was 
available was 4.9%. Miss G was provided with an illustration, and it was confirmed that the 
ERC would not need to be paid until the application completed, rather than at the point it 
started. Miss G complained a couple of days later.
BoS responded to Miss Gs complaint in its letter of 7 November 2022. It set out what had 
happened at the end of September and beginning of October 2022. It apologised for the fact 
that call times were longer than usual and this represented a poorer level of service than 
Miss G could have expected to receive. In addition, BoS concluded she could have been 
provided with more information, but it didnt believe it had misled her or given her any 
incorrect information. As such, it didnt uphold that aspect of the complaint. 
Miss G was not satisfied with BoS response and, when it was not willing to change its 
conclusions, she referred the complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Miss G disagreed with the Investigator and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
Ombudsman. She said she had been given incorrect information in that she had been told 
the ERC had to be paid upfront. It was not until her discussion with a mortgage adviser on 
5 October 2022 that she was given the correct information. As for having the ability to pay 
the ERC, she said she had been raising the funds to pay it and wasnt far off the amount 
needed when she spoke to BoS on 29 September 2022. She also said that had she been 
told the right information in either the August or September telephone calls, she would not 
have been inconvenienced by the longer call waiting times. Miss G subsequently clarified 
that she had understood that the ERC had to be paid at the start of the application process, 
which she had made clear to BoS during the telephone calls, but it didnt correct her.
Miss G has subsequently provided evidence that she had around £1,300 in a savings 
account at that point, as well as a current account balance, presumably used for normal 
household expenditure. In addition, she has provided bank statements from the relative who 
said they would assist her with the ERC, which evidence he had more than sufficient funds 
to assist her in paying the ERC.
I also asked questions of BoS regarding the process Miss G would have gone through to 
change products. It has confirmed that its rates were withdrawn on 30 September 2022 and 
so in the week leading up to that point its telephone lines and mortgage advisers were 
extremely busy. BoS has said that if Miss G had asked to speak to a mortgage adviser on 
29 September 2022, it doesnt know when that would have been possible  the fact she had 
been able to speak to someone the following week was due to call volumes having dropped 
significantly. In addition, it confirmed the ERC would have been payable on the day the offer 
for the new product was accepted, which could have been done over the phone with the 
mortgage adviser or later if shed asked for time to consider the details of the arrangement.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 October 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for them. Below is an excerpt.
Miss G has said she would have taken action to change her interest rate product earlier had 
she been told she didnt need to pay the ERC until the new product was applied to her mortgage. Having listened to the telephone call from August 2022, I accept that Miss G 
could reasonably have taken BoS comments to mean that the ERC had to be paid at the 
time of application. In addition, while she has told us she didnt have the money to pay the 
ERC on 29 September 2022, she has evidenced that she was working on accumulating the 
money needed and had a significant portion of it. Furthermore, the implication within the 
conversation of September 2022 was that Miss G believed she would be able to pay the 
ERC in the near future.
In light of this, had the poor wording about when the ERC needed to be paid not have been 
used in August 2022, it is possible Miss G would have asked for an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser in the conversation of September 2022. However, given that call was late 
in the afternoon, it is impossible to know whether Miss G would have been able to speak to a 
mortgage adviser in what was left of that day or the following day. BoS has confirmed it was 
extremely busy at that time with borrowers looking to do the same thing as Miss G and this is 
supported by her complaint about the telephone queues and being unable to get through the 
following day or for several thereafter. I know this will disappoint Miss G, but I am not 
persuaded it is more likely than not that she would have been able to speak to a mortgage 
adviser in time to book a new product before the rates changed on 1 October 2022.
That said, it is clear that the poor wording used in the August 2022 conversation misled 
Miss G and, in the belief she might have been in a better financial position had that not 
happened, she has been caused upset. In light of this, I consider BoS should pay her £100 
compensation. 
As I have said above, Miss G is unhappy about not being able to get back through to BoS 
earlier than 5 October 2022 because of how busy its phone lines were. As has been 
explained, changes in the mortgage market caused a very sudden increase in demand for 
borrowers to speak to their lenders. This was not just a problem for BoS, and it was across 
the industry. I can understand it was frustrating for Miss G not to be able to speak to BoS 
when she wanted to, but that was not something BoS could have controlled and as such, I 
cant find it was at fault.
BoS agreed to pay Miss G the £100 compensation.
Miss G didnt accept my provisional decision. She reiterated many of her previous comments 
about the conversations she had with BoS from August 2022. In addition, she said that she 
hadnt at any point been given any written information on the process for paying an ERC. 
She maintained that she believes she has suffered a financial loss due to, initially, being 
given misleading information and then that mistake not having been corrected earlier. 
Miss G also commented on what she considers the inadequacy of the systems BoS has in 
place for dealing with its customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the file again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision in 
light of Miss Gs response. Having done so, I am still of the opinion that even had she not 
been given misleading information in the first call with BoS, she would not have been able to 
speak to a mortgage adviser in time to obtain an interest rate product with a lower rate than 
the one she did. As such, I cant agree that she suffered a financial loss because of BoS 
mistake. Although it doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint, I would explain to Miss G that I 
would not expect her to have been given written information about the payment of an ERC. 
When an interest rate product is sold, it is done so on the assumption it will run its entire 
term and an ERC is unlikely to need to be paid unless there is a change of circumstances. 
As such, there would be no reason to provide information about how an ERC would be paid. 
Miss G has commented on the systems BoS have in place to deal with its customers and 
how inadequate they are. I would firstly comment that telling a financial business how to run 
that business and what systems and resources it has in place, doesnt fall within the remit of 
this service. Such things fall into the remit of the industry Regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. I would also reiterate that at the time Miss G was trying to sort out a new interest 
rate product for her mortgage, so were many others for the same reasons. The demand on 
lenders telephone lines and for appointments was unprecedented, and while lenders did 
what they could to cope, it is unfortunate that there was only so much they could do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay Miss G £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman