DRN-2757356
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) have reduced his 
No Claims Discount (NCD) by five years following a claim against his car insurance. Mr S 
wants Advantage to issue a certificate reflecting seven years NCD. 
What happened
Mr S took out car insurance with Advantage and, when it came to renewal, Advantage 
reduced his NCD from nine years down to four. Mr S queried this with Advantages agent 
and he says he was told the insurer only accept a maximum of six years NCD. And, 
following a fault accident, the insurer had taken off two years from the six-year maximum 
which left him with four years NCD. Mr S complained about this and said the two years 
shouldve been taken off his maximum NCD of nine years  which wouldve left him with 
seven years. Advantage referred to the welcome pack Mr S received when he first took out 
the policy. Advantage said the welcome pack included a guide setting out the impact a fault 
accident would have on his NCD. And, following the fault accident involving Mr S, they 
reduced his NCD to four years. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
While most insurers I'm aware of will apply NCD when offering policies and calculating 
premiums, NCD is, generally, a matter thats at the discretion of the particular insurer 
involved. The insurer can decide whether it wishes to apply an NCD and what benefits that 
will give to the customer. And those are decisions each insurer is allowed to make for itself. 
So, theres no automatic entitlement to a certain level of NCD. 
Most insurers have a maximum amount of years NCD that theyll take account of. Some 
insurance companies consider nine years' NCD as the maximum, others have a maximum 
which is lower. Its essentially a matter of commercial judgement, balancing the need to 
attract and retain customers against the desire to make a profit. And, generally thats not 
something we think its fair to interfere with. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr S was involved in a fault claim or that he didnt protect his 
NCD. Ive looked at Mr Ss policy documents and, the cover summary, under the heading 
How claims affect your no claims discount, shows a table which sets out how Mr Ss NCD 
will reduce in the event of a claim. So, in line with the terms and conditions, I think its 
reasonable for Advantage to apply a step back to Mr Ss NCD. The issue here though 
relates to the starting point for Mr Ss NCD. 
I can see from the cover summary section of the welcome pack sent to Mr S, when he first 
took out the policy, it notes his NCD as nine or more years. In a later section, theres a table 
which notes Mr Ss NCD at the start of the policy as 9 or more years. And, the table shows 
that one claim in the next 12 months will lead to Mr Ss NCD reducing from nine years down 
to four. The statement of insurance and schedule of insurance also records Mr Ss NCD as 
nine or more years. Advantage have also told us they take a maximum of nine years NCD 
into consideration. 
So, taking this all into account, I cant say Advantage have acted unfairly. Various sections 
within Mr Ss policy documentation show that Advantage have taken into consideration nine 
years of Mr Ss NCD. Theres no reference to a six-year maximum limit and Advantage have 
also confirmed this to be the case. The policy documents Mr S receives as part of the 
welcome pack specify what Advantages maximum NCD allowance is, and what the 
reduction will be in the event of a fault claim. These policy documents are sent to Mr S prior 
to the start of his policy so, in view of this and given the information in the documents, I think 
the position is made clear to Mr S to allow him to make a fully informed decision. 
I cant comment on what Mr S was told by Advantages agent when he queried why five 
years was reduced from his NCD but the evidence shows Advantage have taken nine years 
into consideration. And, the step back process set out in the policy documents allows them 
to reduce this down to four years. I understand Mr S feels a step back of five years is 
excessive but we cant tell an insurer what their process should be and how many years step 
back should apply to certain scenarios. We look to see whether the process is made clear 
and whether a customer is given an opportunity to consider the information and decide 
whether the terms are acceptable. And, in this case, I think Advantage have done that. 
Mr S has provided a screenshot of a section of the welcome pack and how it appears on his 
mobile. He says he doesnt own a laptop so it makes the documents almost unreadable. He 
says he checked his name, address and car details were correct but considered the 
remaining information as legal terms. I do understand Mr Ss thoughts on this and how 
documents can appear lengthy but I think its fair to say its important for customers to read 
the key terms and conditions in the policy documents. The policy documentation forms the 
contract between the customer and insurer and sets out what a customer can expect. And, 
importantly in this case, what happens to Mr Ss NCD following a fault accident. So, while I 
sympathise with Mr S if he was unable to read the policy documents on his mobile, I cant 
say there has been an error by Advantage here as they do invite Mr S to contact them if he 
needs any help.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman