DRN-2541878
The complaint
Mr B complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) granted him a 
loan that was unaffordable for him. He also says that Everyday Lending gave him misleading 
information about the interest that would be charged.
What happened
In mid-2018, Mr B took out a loan for £3,000 with Everyday Lending. The loan had an APR 
of 149.3% and was to be repaid over 24 months with the repayments set at £286.56 a 
month.
In 2020, Mr B complained to Everyday Lending that the loan was unaffordable for him. He 
also said the interest rate was not correct when it was described to him. He didnt think 
Everyday Lending should have proceeded with his application because he had a history of 
regular borrowing and recently opened credit accounts. It meant he was under enormous 
pressure to ensure his payments were made. Having to make repayments to Everyday 
Lending resulted in him missing payments on other accounts and priority bills.
Everyday Lending said it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure the 
loan repayments were sustainable. It believed Mr B would have been able to make the 
repayments without undue difficulty over the life of the credit agreement, assuming there 
were no significant changes in circumstances and no drastic increase in borrowing.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought Everyday Lending had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Although there were some defaults on Mr Bs credit file, they had occurred quite some time 
prior to the lending and the majority had been satisfied. She also thought Everyday Lending 
had provided clear information about the interest it was charging on the loan agreement.
Mr B remained unhappy. He said he felt under pressure to take out the loan. He was given 
misleading information about the interest rate verbally. He said Everyday Lending told him to 
reduce his outgoings for the purpose of the application and say his wife pays a contribution, 
so his application looked like he had reduced outgoings. Everyday Lending would regularly 
call him to try to persuade him to take out further loans. Hed overpaid the loan, resulting in a 
small credit back because Everyday Lending hadnt given him correct information about the 
monthly payment. He also referred to another complaint hed brought to our service which 
had been upheld. 
As Mr B disagreed with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive considered all of his comments, even if I havent referred to 
each of them individually. Ive focused on whats relevant to the outcome of his complaint.
 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Everyday Lending to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure Mr B could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to think 
only about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him. 
 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Everyday Lending gathered information from Mr B before the loan was agreed. It asked for 
information about his income and his housing costs. It verified Mr Bs income and rent from 
his bank statements.
Mr Bs bank statements showed his employer had paid him £3,722.16 in June 2018 and 
£2,956.56 in July 2018. Everyday Lending used the lowest of these figures and added 
£148.95 child benefit to calculate Mr Bs income. This worked out to be £3,105.51.
When calculating Mr Bs expenditure, Everyday Lending took his rent of £750 a month into 
account. It used data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to calculate that Mr B had 
approximate living expenses of £886 a month. Mr Bs credit file showed he had another loan 
with an outstanding balance of £5,000 and five revolving credit accounts with a balance of 
£3,338. Hed recently taken out a payday loan for £500 but Everyday Lending has noted that 
Mr B intended to pay this off with the proceeds of the loan he was taking out with it.
I can see Everyday Lending also took Mr Bs commitments to other creditors and the 
monthly repayment of £286.56 for the loan he was applying for into account when calculating 
Mr Bs disposable income. This worked out to be £738.41. 
I appreciate Mr B feels that Everyday Lendings expenditure assessment didnt give a 
realistic view on his true expenses. But having reviewed Mr Bs bank statements, I dont 
think the expenditure estimate was unreasonable.
Mr Bs credit file shows that he defaulted on accounts with other lenders before Everyday 
Lending gave him the loan. But these had occurred three or four years before the lending 
was agreed and had mostly been satisfied. Everyday Lending lends money to people whove 
had previous financial difficulties, so it wouldnt be fair to say that it shouldnt have approved 
the loan because of these. 
Having considered everything, I think Everyday Lendings checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances. And they showed the loan was affordable. 
Mr B says Everyday Lending gave him misleading information about the interest on the loan 
before he took it out. He says the interest rate was explained to him verbally and it was only 
the moment that the paper was put in front of him to sign that the real interest rate was 
shown. Hes also mentioned feeling pressured.
Ive no way of knowing what Mr B was told verbally in the branch. But the loan agreement Mr 
B signed on 27 July 2018 very clearly sets out the loan amount, the number and amount of monthly payments, the APR of 149.3% APR, the total interest of £3,877.44 and the total 
amount payable of £6,877.44.
So, I think Everyday Lending gave Mr B clear information about the cost of the loan before 
he agreed to take it out. The loan agreement also gave him 14 days in which to change his 
mind, without incurring any interest.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs points including what hes said about missing payments to other 
lenders since taking out the loan, Everyday Lending trying to persuade him to take out other 
loans and his complaint against another lender being upheld. But Ive explained why I think 
the loan was affordable for Mr B. So, I dont think it did anything wrong by approving the 
loan. Im also satisfied that Everyday Lending gave Mr B clear information about the cost of 
the loan before he agreed to take it out. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman