DRN-1506039
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc caused further damage to his car after it was 
taken for repairs under his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay for these further 
repairs.
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged and taken for repairs to several garages. But when it was returned, 
Mr B said these was further damage to the rear bumper that hadnt been there beforehand. 
AXA said the damage was there before the car came in for repairs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA had 
provided evidence from the garages that the damage was there before repairs were made. 
He couldnt say that AXA had cause the damage. So he thought AXA didnt have to pay for 
the repairs. 
Mr B replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated that his car was returned damaged after being 
with AXA for four months. During this time it had to change garages due to the complexity of 
the required repairs. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess or whether how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see that AXA investigated Mr Bs concern. The car was taken to three garages and 
they all had photos and check-in sheets that showed the damage to the bumper was pre-
existing. The company that recovered the car first didnt take any photos or look over the car. 
But it said it had taken the car straight to the bodyshop. 
So AXA didnt have any evidence that it had caused the further damage to the car. It asked 
Mr B for photos of the car taken before it was recovered as evidence that the bumper wasnt 
then damaged. But I cant see that hes provided these. The photos hes provided us dont 
show the rear of his car.
So I think AXA has reasonably investigated Mr Bs complaint and considered the evidence 
available. And so I think its justified its decision not to pay for further repairs to Mr Bs car. I 
dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman