DRN-2102043
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them two Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) insurance policies.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a repayment mortgage with Halifax in 2006. At the same time, it sold 
them a regular premium TMPP policy containing two main elements  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) cover and level term assurance (LTA) cover. 
The PPI was designed to pay a monthly benefit in the event that either Mr or Mrs S were 
unable to work due to disability or unemployment. The LTA was designed to pay a lump sum 
 which remained unchanged regardless of the associated mortgage balance  should either 
of them die during the term of the policy.
In 2008, Mr and Mrs S transferred to another Halifax mortgage product. Halifax sold them a 
new TMPP policy to replace the previous one. It didnt include PPI but did include 
decreasing term assurance (DTA) cover. This paid a lump sum  which did decrease in line 
with the associated mortgage balance  should either of them die during the policy term. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. While he felt the PPI and 
DTA hadnt been mis-sold, he believed Mr and Mrs S should have been sold DTA cover 
instead of the more expensive LTA cover in 2006. 
Halifax agreed to compensate Mr and Mrs S for the extra premiums theyd paid in taking out 
LTA rather than DTA in 2006, plus interest. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the offer as they 
believed the PPI element of the cover theyd taken out had also been mis-sold.   
As the adjudicator hadnt been able to resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me 
to review afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
the sale of the PPI
Mr and Mrs S say they felt compelled into taking out the PPI and that they were led to 
believe they couldnt have arranged their mortgage without it. As Mr and Mrs S are aware, 
there are some gaps in the information thats still available from the time of the sale. Ive 
taken into account what theyve said, but I havent seen anything to suggest the adviser put 
them under undue pressure to take the cover.
From experience of how Halifax generally sold TMPP policies at the time, I think it probably 
made it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the policy was optional. And that it was only added after 
theyd agreed to go ahead with it. I think thats supported to an extent by the letter Halifax 
sent Mr and Mrs S just after the sale, which said Thank you for choosing our Halifax 
(TMPP). I am pleased to confirm the cover you requested has been arranged 
I can see that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. That meant it was for Halifax 
to take steps to ensure its advice to Mr and Mrs S was right for them. And to give them 
enough information so they could make their own choice about whether the PPI was right for 
them.
I dont know for sure what steps Halifax took or if it gave Mr and Mrs S enough information. 
But I dont think that would have made a difference to Mr and Mrs S because I think the PPI 
was right for them in any case. And I cant see that fuller information would have stopped 
them buying it. I say that because, for example, from what Mr and Mrs S have told us about 
their circumstances:
They were eligible for the cover. And I havent seen anything to show suggest theyd 
have been affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded or limited cover for.
They were both entitled to enhanced sick pay for a time in the event they were too sick to 
work. But the PPI policy benefits would have been paid on top of that and for up to 12 
months per claim. The PPI also covered them for unemployment. Given that the PPI 
would have helped Mr and Mrs S continue to meet their mortgage repayments at what 
might have been a difficult time for them, I think theyd have valued the extra protection 
the PPI provided.
Its unlikely theyd have found the monthly premium unaffordable. And the PPI was 
flexible in that they could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if they 
decided they no longer wanted it.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them the PPI.
the sale of the LTA and DTA cover
I dont see any reason to discuss the sale of the LTA cover in 2006 in detail in this decision. 
Halifax has already offered to compensate Mr and Mrs S for not having been sold DTA 
instead. In the circumstances, I think its offer to put things right is a fair one. 
And I see no reason to believe the DTA cover sold in 2008 was mis-sold. As mentioned 
above, the lump sum of that policy would have fallen in line the associated borrowing. And 
the premium was set accordingly  that is, at a lower rate than if more expensive LTA cover 
had been arranged. 
In the absence of any other reason to conclude that the DTA was mis-sold, for example 
because Mr and Mrs S didnt agree to it or it was otherwise unsuitable for them, I havent 
found in their favour regarding this aspect of the complaint.  
Putting things rightHalifax should put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if theyd taken out 
decreasing term cover in 2006 rather than level term cover. Halifax should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between the amount they paid each month for the cover 
and the amount they should have paid.
Add simple interest to each overpayment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give 
Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Bank of 
Scotland plc to put things right for Mr and Mrs S as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman