DRN-4030134
The complaint
Mr S says that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, has treated him unfairly regarding a claim about a 
kitchen installation.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr S entered a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to 
fund the purchase of a kitchen from a kitchen fitting company that Ill call Firm W. The 
kitchen was fitted during mid-September 2020 with Mr S raising concerns about it at the 
time. The Completion form was signed 24 September 2020 but noting that some further work 
was required.
Mr S says the installation was badly done and he tried to speak to Firm W repeatedly but 
was unsuccessful in getting the issues sorted out. So he tried to talk to Hitachi as well but 
couldnt get the matters sorted. Mr S says due to his son having special requirements he 
didnt have the option of leaving the kitchen as it was. So he had a third party come in and 
install a new kitchen. He says he still has the kitchen that Hitachi funded in his garage.
Mr S complained to Hitachi about how it treated him. But it has pointed to the fact that he 
contacted Hitachi in October and it had tried to help but in December 2020 Mr S had a third 
party remove the kitchen, so Hitachi says it never had the opportunity to inspect or remedy 
the situation. So it felt it hadnt done anything wrong. So Mr S complained here.
Our Investigator felt that Hitachi hadnt done anything wrong here. Mr S remains unhappy. 
So this complaint came to me to consider.
In February I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think Mr S complaint 
should be successful. Both Mr S and Hitachi have responded to my provisional decision with 
their comments on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi responded to my provisional decision by saying it agreed with my position. However 
Mr S has responded to say he disagrees and provides further arguments. Ive considered Mr 
S submissions carefully. But they fall short of persuading me that Hitachi should bear the 
costs of what happened here. I shall address Mr S key points later in this decision under the 
heading of further arguments but it is my decision that Mr S complaint is unsuccessful. But 
before that I shall set out the broad rationale of my provisional decision below.
This decision is solely about Hitachi and how it considered Mr Ss dispute with Firm W. The 
test is here whether Hitachi treated Mr S fairly in its consideration of his dispute with Firm W. 
And just because Mr S feels Firm W has treated him badly it doesnt necessarily follow that 
Hitachi has done something wrong. I hope I have made this crucial distinction clear.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) sets out the requirements for a successful 
Section 75 claim to a creditor (such as Hitachi here). This includes conditions regarding 
financial limits of the claim and that the required Debtor Creditor Supplier (DCS for short) 
relationship is in place. Having considered these pre-requisites Im satisfied they are met 
here in Mr S case.
So has Hitachi considered the claim fairly?
The CCA allows Mr S to hold Hitachi equally responsible as would Firm W be in a legal 
process. In essence Mr S can make a like claim against Hitachi as he can against Firm W. I 
can see Hitachi liaising with Firm W and Mr S from when it was informed of the dispute. On 
the 19 October Hitachi say its raised the matter with Firm W. On 02 November Hitachi email 
to say that Firm W is double checking the missing items to be delivered and provide a list of 
those. On 17 November Mr S asks why the work is treated as having been completed. 
Hitachi responds on the same day noting a conversation last week that you have sourced 
another company to complete
the works due to the delays and your personal circumstances. So it is clear to me that Mr S 
had engaged, at least to some degree, another company to work on his kitchen prior to 17 
November. And on 11 December Mr S writes Therefore with no communications coming 
from (Firm W) we had to take the matter into our own hands and make a decision due to our 
sons needs to get this all sorted as soon as possible.
Accordingly Ive considered Hitachis actions during this time. I can see instances of Hitachi 
and Mr S missing each others communications and informing each other of that. I can also 
see Hitachi managing expectations as to the situation. Importantly Hitachi say on 17 
November (which is before the third party worked on the kitchen):
I do just wish to manage your expectations however and advise that unfortunately I cannot 
confirm that the finance agreement will be cancelled as the kitchen to (Firm Ws) 
understanding was 3/4 of the way complete and the new company appointed was done so 
without prior authorisation from (Firm W).
So it is clear to me that Hitachi made clear to Mr S that there was a risk he would remain 
bound by the finance agreement prior to when Mr S engaged the new company to work on 
his kitchen. On the 26 November Hitachi email Mr S about this and note that Firm W has 
said it would not be agreeing to a cancellation of the finance. So Mr S has been informed 
twice that his agreement wont be cancelled. On 07 December Hitachi send an email chaser 
to Mr S about Firm Ws stance. And I cant see any significant other correspondence by Mr S 
to Hitachi prior to him informing Hitachi on the 11 December that he had taken the matter 
into his own hands by getting a third-party firm to work on his kitchen.
So it is clear to me that Hitachi were trying to resolve this dispute between Mr S and Firm W 
and that it made clear to Mr S that there was no agreement to cancel the finance agreement 
in place between him and Hitachi. And thus he remained bound by it. It is also clear to me 
that Hitachi hadnt concluded its position with regard to Mr S S75 claim but rather had been 
trying to find an acceptable solution. So Im not persuaded it did anything wrong in how it 
handled the matter prior being told that Mr S had a third party install a new kitchen.
The Consumer Rights Act (CRA) allows for suppliers of goods and services the opportunity 
to make good on issues arising during the supply of goods and services. The terms of the 
CRA are implied into contracts such as this. And it is clear from the correspondence 
between Hitachi and Firm W that they were willing to make good on the issues Mr S was 
raising. Im also satisfied on balance that based on this correspondence had Mr S allowed 
Hitachi the opportunity to make good on the issues he had raised it would have done so. So Im not persuaded that there is a material breach here which Hitachi should be responsible 
for.
After the new kitchen installation
It is clear that Hitachi did liaise with Firm W and in those discussions its clear that Firm W 
was willing to refund items not delivered and maintained its position that it was willing to 
remedy matters if allowed to do so. But once Mr S had a third party in to work on the kitchen 
and removed it, Firm W noted that it had been unfairly treated in not being allowed to 
remedy any outstanding issues.
Mr S has made clear repeatedly he wants the finance agreement cancelled. However this 
would be unfair to my mind. I say this because although he has pointed to issues with the 
installation, Hitachi has confirmed that Firm W was willing to remedy those matters. And I 
note at no stage have I seen persuasive evidence of Hitachi explaining to Mr S that it wasnt 
going trying to resolve the matter prior to him informing it that he'd taken matters into his own 
hands by getting a third-party in.
I appreciate why Mr S says he did this; however Hitachi did warn him that there was no 
agreement to cancel the finance agreement. Yet Mr S went ahead with this course of action.
Ive considered the terms of the contract and can see that there is no option of cancellation 
once the materials are delivered. I can also see the work had a two-year guarantee on it, so 
Mr S had this guarantee as well as the protection under the CCA and CRA to remedy the 
matter but chose not to use these options despite not having reached deadlock with Hitachi.
Mr S has provided photographs and commentary about the quality of the installation, all of 
which Ive considered. And although Mr S is clearly unhappy with the customer service he 
received from Firm W, this complaint is about Hitachi and what it did in relation to Mr S claim 
under the CCA. And Im not persuaded it has treated Mr S unfairly here. It was trying to 
remedy the matter and Mr S has then got an unconnected unauthorised third party in and 
removed the kitchen without agreement to do so. 
Mr S is still in possession of the kitchen, and as a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement was used to 
finance this installation Hitachi has no ownership of the kitchen items. So I see no reason for 
it not to hold Mr S liable for the repayments hes due to make to it under the agreement. And 
Im not persuaded it treated him unfairly in its consideration of the s75 claim he made to it as 
Hitachi was looking to remedy any issues in line with their obligations to Mr S. However once 
Mr Ss outside kitchen installer removed the kitchen, Hitachi couldnt remedy any 
outstanding issues so Mr S action meant Hitachi was prevented from fulfilling its obligations 
with regard to remedying any outstanding issues with the kitchen.
Further arguments
Firstly I should point out that Mr S doesnt contend the legal position in this matter as I set 
out in my provisional decision. A broad summation of his comments regarding my provisional 
decision is giving further argument and background to why he acted as he did. But it is my 
summation of what hes said is that he gives little persuasive argument as to what Hitachi 
actually did wrong. And for me to make Hitachi bear the costs of what happened here Hitachi 
has to have treated him unfairly. And Im not persuaded it has.
Mr S points to events of the 10, 13 and 17 November as to why he did what he did. But 
ultimately the completion form had been signed some time before that and these events 
dont negate the fact that Mr S went ahead with using the third party without agreement and 
knowing the contract wasnt going to be cancelled.Mr S points to multiple issues with the kitchen at that time. And this isnt in dispute. But that 
doesnt negate that Hitachi were engaging with Firm W and had told him the contract 
wouldnt be cancelled (as per the terms agreed once delivery had taken place).
Mr S says It is very hard to believe anything other than following my call Hitachi notified 
Firm W of the conversation and Firm W then requested payment knowing that it would be 
paid automatically. But this doesnt make a difference because once delivery had taken 
place the contract couldnt be cancelled as per the agreed terms. And delivery had taken 
place sometime before this.
Mr S puts lots of emphasis on his perceived bargaining power between before and after the 
money was transferred between Hitachi and Firm W. I dont think this makes a significant 
difference here. Once the kitchen was delivered the contract couldnt be cancelled and this 
delivery happened before Mr S was unhappy with the installation. And in any event his 
perceived bargaining power is moot considering he decided to engage a third party having 
been told his contract wouldnt be cancelled.
Mr S says Hitachis payment of the money to Firm W meant that the chance of a satisfactory 
outcome was diminished. I dont agree. To my mind the main reason a resolution acceptable 
to all parties wasnt reached doesnt sit with Hitachi. I think bearing in mind the contractual 
interlocking of the parties, Hitachis interest in an amicable outcome seeing as it is the lender 
here, Hitachis significant resources including legal resources, had Hitachi had sufficient 
opportunity to remedy the matter I feel on balance it would have exerted (if it had to) the 
requisite pressure on Firm W, (or taken matters into its own hands as it could) to deliver a 
kitchen that Mr S found acceptable. 
So having considered the matter in the round Im satisfied that Mr S complaint should not 
succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to not uphold the complaint against Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman