DRN-4504752
The complaint
Mr O is complaining on behalf of IA  a limited company  that Falcon Underwriting Ltd 
(Falcon) failed to give accurate information to the insurance company that provided IAs 
property owners indemnity insurance policy.
What happened
Around February 2021 Mr O took out a property owners indemnity insurance policy through 
Falcon  a broker  to insure three buy to let properties IA owned. The policy renewed in 
February 2022. However, shortly after renewal one of the properties suffered significant 
damage following an explosion. So Mr O contacted the insurer to claim for the damage.
It became apparent that the explosion occurred when one of the tenants was using butane 
gas to convert a cannabis plant into cannabis oil. The insurer initially considered the claim as 
a malicious damage claim, but later said it was accidental damage. However, shortly after 
this it avoided IAs insurance policy. It said Falcon had told it that the tenants were 
professional workers, but they were being rented out through a social housing scheme. And 
it said it wouldnt have insured the properties had it known this.
Mr O complained to Falcon as he said hed explained as part of the initial sales process that 
the properties were managed by a third party company who arranged for social housing 
tenants. So he wanted Falcon to cover IAs losses. Falcon acknowledged it had made an 
error in setting up the policy, but didnt agree to cover IAs losses. So Mr O referred IAs 
complaint to this Service.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015. This required the policy applicant to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer, so that it had enough information to 
assess the level of risk it was willing to provide and on what terms.
And if the applicant fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the failure is  
what the Insurance Act describes  as a qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach 
the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the breach.
The insurer has avoided the insurance policy because it says there was a qualifying breach 
and it wouldnt have insured IA had it been given the true facts. The insurer is not a party to 
this complaint so I wont comment on whether anything the insurer has done is fair or not. 
My role in this decision is to consider whether Falcon has acted fairly in fulfilling its 
responsibility towards IA as its broker.
As IAs broker, Falcon was required to make this presentation on IAs behalf. So it needed to 
ensure it had all the relevant information the insurer required to give a fair presentation of the 
risk.
All parties agree that Falcon has made an error in the information it presented to the insurer. 
Mr O had explained he had a tenancy agreement with a third party company who, in turn, 
arranged for third party tenants to reside in the property under a social housing scheme. But 
Falcon had incorrectly told the insurer that the tenants were classified as professional 
workers. So Falcon has failed in its duty to IA. The issue I have to consider is whether it is 
ultimately responsible for the loss IA has suffered from the policys avoidance.
As I said, Falcon has acknowledged its error, but it has also set out that Mr O  on behalf of 
IA  had a responsibility to check the information set out on the statement of facts and also  
in the pre-renewal report it sent him. I agree that Mr O needed to check the information 
contained within these documents, but I also have to think about whats the underlying and 
fundamental cause of the loss.
Mr O clearly explained to Falcon the tenancy arrangement for the properties he was looking 
to insure. And he was entitled to assume it would present this information to the insurer. But, 
further to this, I can also see that in the pre-renewal report (which is essentially a summary 
of the fact find it carried out), while Falcon recorded the tenants as professional workers, it 
has also given a clear and accurate description of the tenancy relationship. So, Im not 
persuaded it would have been clearly apparent to Mr O that Falcon hadnt correctly 
presented the information hed given as part of the initial application to the insurer.
With all this in mind, Im not persuaded I can reasonably say there is anything Mr O may or 
may not have done that means Falcon isnt ultimately responsible for the insurer avoiding 
the insurance policy. So I think it should put IA in the position it would have been in, had it 
presented the risk to the insurer correctly.
Had it carried out a fair presentation of the risk, the insurer would have immediately said it 
wouldnt provide insurance on this basis. IA would have then had an opportunity to arrange 
insurance with an insurer which did cover this type of arrangement. So it would have had a 
valid insurance policy that would have covered this loss. And it follows, therefore, that there 
would have been a valid insurance policy to cover the claim. I dont think Falcon disputes 
this.
Firstly, I think Falcon should write a letter to IA confirming it was responsible for the policy 
being avoided and explain that IA doesnt need to disclose this to future insurers going 
forward.
I also think Falcon should take over and handle the claim as if it was the insurer of the policy. 
I recognise the terms of the insurance policy it arranged wouldnt have been the actual terms 
in place if everything had been done as it should have done. However, we naturally cant 
know for certain what the terms would have said, but I dont think its likely they would have 
been materially different. So I think Falcon should use the terms and conditions of the 
insurance policy it did arrange to consider the claim (including any claim for loss of rent).
Im also conscious that Falcon has said, if it was to do this, it would treat the claim as 
malicious damage. But the insurer made it clear, before it avoided the insurance policy, that 
it would have considered the claim as accidental damage. And, given the circumstances that 
led to the damage occurring, I think thats fair. So I dont think Falcon can fairly limit the claim 
to the malicious damage policy limit.
I note the investigator said that Falcon should pay the premium refund the insurer gave. But I 
dont agree. Had Falcon given a fair presentation as it should have done, IA would have paid 
the insurance premium. So, if Falcon has already issued the premium refund, it can deduct 
this amount from any claim settlement it issues.
Finally, I also note the investigator awarded £500 in compensation. But I have to think about what inconvenience IA has actually suffered. And Im aware the terms of the insurance 
policy Falcon will use to consider the claim covers loss of rent, if the claim is payable. So I 
think this suitably compensates IA for any inconvenience that Falcon has caused.
Falcon didnt agree with my provisional decision for the following reasons:
It disagreed that the claim shouldnt be classed as malicious damage. It said the cause 
of the accident was a butane gas explosion as a result of the tenant producing cannabis 
resin, which it said was a deliberate illegal act and therefore constitutes malicious 
damage. It maintained that the cause of the explosion constituted malicious damage 
because of the underlying illegality.
It queried why the insurer changed its decision from malicious damage to accidental 
damage before avoiding the insurance policy and queried if this was following a 
complaint.
It said the insurers approach to illegality is further evidenced by the following exclusion, 
which may also be engaged in this case, because the incident unarguably related to 
illegal drugs:
-We will not pay for any claim relating to or resulting from:
1. Assault or violence, malicious falsehood, the manufacture or dealing in alcohol, 
illegal drugs, indecent or obscene materials or illegal immigration
2.Any offence relating to the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002
It maintained IA should have taken steps to challenge its losses from the insurer and/or 
recover its losses from the tenant.
Mr O responded and said the following:
The insurer had classified this claim as an accident and not malicious. He said a 
malicious damage claim will be when someone intentionally causes a damage, which 
wasnt the case here.
He thinks its wrong that Falcon is going against the initial decision the insurer reached.
He said the insurer made it clear that the reason it avoided IAs insurance policy was 
because of the wrong information given by Falcon. He said IA couldn't start asking its 
solicitor to be appealing the obvious with the insurer.
He said the tenant wasn't working. IA did make an attempt to recover from the tenant, 
but it was a waste of time, given the tenant was depending on council benefit. And he set 
out the claim value was £70,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision and Ill explain why,
Falcon hasnt provided anything to set out it isnt required to indemnify IA, but has largely 
focussed on the fact I said I dont think it can limit its liability by treating the claim as 
malicious damage.
The simple inescapable fact is that, before declaring the policy null and void, the insurer set 
out that it considered the claim to be accidental damage following receipt of the fire and loss 
adjustor reports. And I cant say that was unfair.Falcon maintains the claim should be considered under the following term:
Malicious Damage by Residential Tenants
We will pay You for the Damage caused by the malicious actions of a tenant their family or 
guests occupying the Buildings or portion of any Building for residential purposes.
The policy doesnt define malicious so Ive thought about what a reasonable interpretation 
of this is. And I think a reasonable definition of a malicious act is one where theres an intent 
to do harm. So I think, to limit the liability to malicious damage, Falcon would need to show the 
tenant intended to cause the damage they did rather than it arose from a simple accident. I dont 
think it can reasonably be argued the tenant intended to cause the explosion. So I still think its 
fair to treat this as accidental damage.
I should make clear that Im not saying Falcon must pay the claim  merely that it should 
consider the claim under the accidental damage section of IAs insurance policy. If it can show an 
exclusion fairly applies to that section of the policy then it can rely upon it. Im not saying that the 
term Falcon referred to in response to my provisional decision does apply here. But it would need 
to show it was either a general exclusion or specific to accidental damage claims.
I recognise that Falcon has said a number of times that IA should have challenged the decision 
reached by the insurer or looked to recover the losses directly from the tenant themselves. But I 
cant say it was unreasonable for IA to pursue its losses from Falcon directly as it was ultimately 
responsible for the insurers decision to avoid the insurance policy. 
Ultimately Falcon hasnt raised anything it hasnt raised before or given me anything to think 
my provisional decision was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Falcon Underwriting Ltd to:
1. Write a letter to IA confirming it caused the policy to be avoided and explain that IA 
doesnt need to disclose this to future insurers going forward;
2. Take over and handle the claim as if it was the insurer of the policy. It should use the 
terms and conditions of the insurance policy it arranged to consider the claim (including 
any claim for loss of rent). And it should treat the claim as an accidental damage claim. 
If Falcon has already issued the premium refund, it can deduct this amount from any 
claim settlement it issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask IA to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman