DRN-1585839
 
The complaint
Mrs J had complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
This policy was sold by a third party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or was otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.I
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. Mrs J will notice that her complaint was 
originally set up against another business who were the original insurer. However, that 
insurer has now transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
To keep things simple, Ill just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs J took out the PPI in 1996 during a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint and Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as the sale took place a long time ago and AXA no longer 
has any of the sales documentation or a recording of the phone call, which isnt surprising. 
So Ive based my decision on the evidence that we do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened. Ive also thought about how much time has elapsed and how this may have 
affected Ms Ms memory of events.
AXA has provided evidence that Mrs J took out the store card in August 1995 but didnt take 
out the PPI until October 1996 when it spoke to her as part of a telemarketing call. As Mrs J 
had already had the store card for over a year at that point, I dont think she could have 
thought that the PPI was a condition of having the card.
Mrs J says she has no knowledge of any phone call or accepting the PPI over the phone. 
But 1996 was a very long time ago so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Js memory has faded 
over time, especially as receiving a phone call from your store card company is not usually a 
particularly memorable event anyway. On balance, I consider that there would have been a discussion about PPI and that Mrs J would have been asked if she wanted it. It seems to me 
that Mrs J probably decided to buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no 
longer remembers doing so.
I dont know if AXA advised Mrs J to buy the policy or not, but that makes no difference to 
the outcome of my decision. If it did advise her to buy it, AXA would have needed to ensure 
that the policy meet Mrs Js needs. And from what I know of her circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable.
Mrs J says her employer would have given her between three and six months pay if she 
was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than she would have received full pay for. And Mrs J hasnt mentioned any other 
means, such as savings, that she could fall back on. She has said that her husband would 
have helped, but other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can 
change. So I consider that Mrs J had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it 
if shed been unable to work. 
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs J wasnt affected by any of those 
things. Because I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that better information would have caused her to change her mind. So she isnt any worse 
off as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing that AXA needs to 
do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman