DRN-3204448
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr H have complained about Arch Insurance (UK) Limited. They arent happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Arch are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs E and Mr H made a claim under their home insurance policy in September 2020 after an 
escape of water at their property caused a significant amount of damage across the ground 
floor hallway, living room and kitchen. To the extent that they had to be put up in alternative 
accommodation (AA). And they went on to complain to Arch, and then this service, about the 
adequacy of the accommodation and the repairs to their kitchen.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs E and Mr H and partly upheld their complaint. He 
broke the complaint up into two distinct parts (the alternative accommodation and the level of 
repairs to the kitchen). Although he understood Mrs E and Mr Hs level of frustration about 
the suitability of the alternative accommodation it provided he thought Arch had generally 
met its responsibilities under the policy. He thought Arch had acted reasonably in sourcing 
and paying up front for suitable accommodation but didnt feel it was responsible for the 
difficulties they faced when they moved into the accommodation. 
However, our investigator thought that Arch hadnt done enough in relation to the level of 
repairs undertaken to the kitchen. He thought Arch should undertake the following within a 
reasonable period of time in order to avoid further delays - 
Carry out a further survey of the work needed to put the kitchen back into its pre-loss 
condition, including any additional work to the base of the units. 
The settlement must also account for replacing the white interior cabinets, as these 
dont match the remaining, undamaged cabinets.
The settlement must include an accurate figure for labour, as opposed to an 
estimate. This can be based either on the rates already supplied by the present 
engaged supplier or another suitably qualified expert. It should be based on amounts 
the consumer is likely to have to pay and not the rates of a business-approved 
contractor.
Pay £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Both sides agreed to the investigators proposed settlement and plan of action in relation to 
the level of damage to the kitchen. But Mrs E and Mr H didnt agree that Arch had acted 
fairly in relation to the AA provided. So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides accept the investigators proposals around the rectification work required to 
the kitchen I dont propose to go over the detail of this. And I agree that this seems a fair and 
reasonable way to advance this part of the complaint. So, I will simply focus on the issue that 
remains in dispute  whether Arch should further compensate Mrs E and Mr H for the 
difficulties they faced at the AA.
I note that Mrs E and Mr H have raised further points that Arch werent given the opportunity 
to respond to as part of this complaint. So they have been advised to raise these points 
separately with Arch and I wont comment on these issues here. 
I can understand how frustrating and difficult Mrs E and Mr H found all of this. Dealing with 
any insurance claim can be difficult, never mind one that forces people from their homes and 
into AA. But there was always going to be an awful lot of stress and inconvenience caused 
following an escape of water claim like this one and I think Arch acted fairly in the 
circumstances.
The AA provided was difficult to find and there was always going to be elements of the 
accommodation that wouldnt be ideal or sit with Mrs E and Mr Hs present circumstances 
and expectations. I know they feel that the location was noisy, the wi-fi was unreliable, that 
there wasnt any complimentary cleaning supplies, there was scuff marks on the walls and 
that the business wouldnt agree a penthouse apartment that Mrs E and Mr H suggested  
Ill call it a penthouse for ease but I accept Mrs E and Mr Hs point that it wasnt a city centre 
penthouse apartment and was just on the top floor of the building but was marketed as such.
While I understand why these issues caused difficulties to Mrs E and Mr H I dont think there 
was much that could be done about these issues that I could hold Arch responsible for. I 
understand that they discussed the property, including parking and the internet speed, with 
the management company before moving in so I think they had the opportunity to consider 
these issues before moving in. I accept that all this caused Mrs E and Mr H difficulties, but I 
dont think I can hold Arch responsible for this. 
I say this as there was a clear consideration of paying reasonable costs here and I think the 
property was generally reasonable if not ideal. Any property would have needed some 
degree of compromise as it wouldnt be like for like (to Mrs E and Mr Hs own property) and I 
wouldnt expect Arch to place them in significantly better accommodation  such as the 
penthouse apartment they identified. So, overall, I think Arch acted reasonably here, 
especially as it was difficult to find any suitable accommodation during the pandemic.
However, I note there was a pest problem at the first AA that Mrs E and Mr H were placed at 
and this must have been a particularly stressful thing for them to face. And Im sure it would 
have caused them a fair degree of stress. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Arch 
were aware of any issues before Mrs E and Mr H moved in. And I cant hold it responsible 
for any failings by the property management company as they didnt have any control over 
them.
Im pleased to see that Arch looked to move Mrs E and Mr H as a matter of urgency when it 
was made aware of the issue  indeed the move would have taken place the same day but 
Mrs E and Mr H didnt decide which of the two options they wished to take until outside office 
hours. But Arch acted quickly and reasonably here in arranging their move the next day and 
paying significant dry cleaning and cleaning costs to Mrs E and Mr H. I know Mrs E and Mr H 
still wanted to move to the penthouse apartment identified but, for the reasons outlined 
above, I dont think that would be fair. I say this as there was other suitable accommodation 
available.Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mrs E and Mr H faced, I 
agree with the investigator that the fair and reasonable thing to do is to partly uphold this 
complaint. And ask Arch to take the steps outlined above to ensure the rectification work for 
the kitchen is undertaken to try and ensure Mrs E and Mr H are put back into their pre-loss 
position. But I make no further award for the problems faced in relation to the AA as I feel 
that Arch did all it could to limit the impact on Mrs E and Mr H. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. And I require Arch 
Insurance (UK) Limited to  
Carry out a further survey of the work needed to put the kitchen back into its pre-loss 
condition, including any additional work to the base of the units. The subsequent 
settlement should include all the necessary work. Arch can either engage the 
supplier that had already been engaged or use the survey that was produced or 
appoint a new independent expert.
The settlement must also account for replacing the white interior cabinets, as these 
dont match the remaining, undamaged cabinets.
The settlement must include an accurate figure for labour, as opposed to an 
estimate. This can be based either on the rates already supplied by the present 
engaged supplier or another suitably qualified expert. It should be based on amounts 
the consumer is likely to have to pay and not the rates of a business-approved 
contractor.
Pay £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman