The complaint
Mr E complained that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4UNow) loaned to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In November 2016 Mr E took out a Novaloans loan for £400, repayable over six months. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Es circumstances at the time
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr E for
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr E provided, or the information Novaloans
shouldve been aware of, which meant that Novaloans shouldve taken steps to verify
the information Mr E had declared
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E disagreed with our adjudicators view and so his complaint comes to me for a final 
decision. He told our adjudicator that hes mainly concerned that the checks Novaloans 
carried out werent enough and the lender should have taken into account more than just the 
figures Mr E provided. Mr E doesnt feel the figures Novaloans relied on accurately reflected 
his situation and the figure worked out for his disposable income wasnt correct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Novaloans provided Mr E with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr E could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Es income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
DRN-1879803the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. 
Before lending to Mr E, Novaloans asked Mr E for information about his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings, including what he was spending on other 
loans. Using this information, Novaloans was able to see what his monthly budget typically 
looked like. And it worked out what he could afford to borrow. 
It looks like Novaloans didnt think Mr E would be able to afford as much as he applied to 
borrow. But it agreed to lend him £400 over six months as it felt this would be an affordable 
amount for him to borrow.
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the information 
Novaloans had on record for Mr E, including what it appears Mr E told Novaloans about his 
monthly income and what he was paying out each month and also spending on other credit, 
this didnt point to the loan being unaffordable for Mr E. 
After taking into account his take home pay and the spending it appears Mr E told Novaloans 
about, Mr E still shouldve had around £700 left over to pay for this loan. As the monthly 
repayments due on this loan were all around £110, this wouldve looked comfortably 
affordable for Mr E. 
Im sorry that Mr E had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this loan 
turned out to be difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Es actual circumstances possibly 
werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information 
Novaloans obtained. 
But wed expect Novaloans to decide Mr Es lending application based on the information it 
was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
As this was the first loan Mr E had taken out with Novaloans, Mr E didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted Novaloans to any underlying money problems. 
It wasnt an unusually large loan, given that it looks like his take home pay was around 
£2000. 
And Mr E was planning to pay the loan back over just 6 months  which I think was a 
reasonably foreseeable period of time. 
So I think Novaloans could reasonably rely on the information Mr E provided.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Novaloans to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr E wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Novaloans to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Es finances or ask Mr E to prove what he was declaring or 
check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Novaloans did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr E. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr E. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman