DRN-3299106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has settled their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs W took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy. This was 
insured through AXA. In October 2019 Mr and Mrs W paid a years rental on a property 
abroad as they planned to take three separate trips to this destination: in April, July, and 
October 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs Ws flights for each trip were cancelled by 
the airline throughout the year. The airline refunded the cost of the flights. Mr and Mrs W 
submitted a claim to AXA for the cost of the full year rental on the property. 
AXA initially refused to pay the claim, but then reconsidered and agreed to make a payment. 
It said the policy didnt provide cover for the full cost of the years rental so it calculated the 
cost of the accommodation for each of the trips on a pro-rata basis, based on the number of 
days they were booked to travel. And as this was for three separate trips, AXA said that 
each trip was a separate claim and therefore it deducted a policy excess for each trip  
totalling £150 for all three cancelled bookings. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to AXA as they were unhappy with the settlement. AXA said that 
it could only pay the cost for each trip and so it didnt think it should pay any more. However, 
AXA said it shouldnt have refused the claim in the first instance and so it offered £200 as 
compensation for this error.
As they remained unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs W brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt agree that AXA had to do anything 
more. She found that the policy only provided cover for costs that related to a trip, and the 
definition of trip was the time that you were away from home. And so, she didnt think AXA 
should pay for the accommodation costs during the time that Mr and Mrs W hadnt planned 
to use the property. She also said that the trips were all cancelled for separate reasons and 
so she didnt think it was unreasonable that AXA deducted a policy excess from each trip. 
She found that the settlement was fair.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigator. They said the yearly rental cost was cheaper 
than paying for three separate holiday bookings and they only planned to use it for those 
three trips. And they said that they were unable to use the property at any other time during 
the year due to their child being at school. And they said travel restrictions meant they were 
prevented from travelling anyway.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs W. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. AXA has settled some of the costs of the 
accommodation - so the cause of the cancellation of these trips is not in dispute. But what I 
need to consider is whether AXA has acted fairly when reaching its settlement figure.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy includes the following wording under the cancellation section of the 
policy:
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for your proportion 
only of your irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-
paid charges if you need to cancel or cut short your trip following any of the reasons 
which are shown in the table below.
AXA has referred to the definition of a trip under the policy wording and says that it cannot 
pay for the full cost of the accommodation as the policy only provides cover for individual 
trips up to the maximum shown in the policy schedule  Mr and Mrs Ws schedule shows 
their trip duration as 30 days. 
The policy defines a trip as The period of time spent away from your home on pre-booked 
business or leisure travelIf annual multi trip cover is selected: the maximum duration of 
any one trip is shown in your policy schedule. If any trip exceeds your maximum number of 
nights there is no cover under this policy for any of your trip. Trips outside of the UK must 
start and end in the UK.
From looking at these two sections of the policy Im satisfied that cover under the 
cancellation section is limited to the costs that are incurred for the trip. And, in respect of Mr 
and Mrs Ws situation, this would be the rental costs applicable for the period of time they 
had booked to be away from home on each occasion. Im not persuaded that there is cover 
for the cost of the full years rental.
Mr and Mrs W have told us this was something they had been doing for a number of years  
renting for the whole year but only using the accommodation for three trips in that time. They 
say it is cheaper to rent a property for the year rather than making separate package holiday 
bookings. I dont doubt this is the case as I note that their trips coincided with the school 
holidays when travel is usually more expensive. So, I can understand why Mr and Mrs W 
made the decision to rent a property for the year if this was more cost effective for them. 
But it is important to note that this was a lease enabling Mr and Mrs W to use the property 
for the entire year. However, AXA wasnt insuring Mr and Mrs W to use the accommodation 
for the whole of that period, just for the times when they due to be on these trips. And whilst 
Ive noted their comments about the various reasons why they couldnt use the property at other times during 2020, it was their choice to pay for the rental in October 2019 for the year, 
knowing they werent going to use it for the whole of that time period. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask AXA to refund the proportion of rental costs for the 
property during the times when Mr and Mrs W had no intention of travelling out of the UK to 
use it. Based on this, Im satisfied that the calculations used by AXA are reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy that AXA has deducted an amount for the excess of £50 for 
each trip which was cancelled, totalling £150. They say the excess should only be applied 
once as it was the cost of one years rental of accommodation that was made.
I appreciate their point of view, but I cannot agree that only one excess should be deducted. 
Ill explain why.
Under the cancellation section of the policy, it states that it does not cover the excess. The 
term excess is defined as the amount you pay per person but limited to two excess 
amounts if more than one insured person is claiming. As Ive already detailed above, the 
cancellation section of the policy refers to the cancellation of a trip. So, Im of the opinion that 
the conditions and exclusions under that section apply to each person for each trip that is 
being claimed  meaning the excess would apply to each person, for each separate trip, up 
to a maximum of two. 
Ive also considered the fact that the flights for each trip were cancelled at different points in 
the year. And the cause for the cancellation of the flights altered throughout that time period. 
So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask AXA to consider the cancellation of the three 
trips as one event.
As our investigator pointed out, the policy entitles AXA to deduct a maximum of two 
excesses if more than one insured person was travelling. As each trip was for three insured 
persons, AXA could have deducted £300 in total for these three cancelled trips. I dont think 
it has been unreasonable by only deducting £150 in total for all of the trips.
AXA has acknowledged that it made a mistake when it initially declined to pay any of the 
cost of the accommodation. And it offered compensation of £200 for this error. I can see that 
there was a period of approximately five days between when AXA first refused to pay and 
when it notified Mr and Mrs W that it had reconsidered the matter and would be making a 
settlement. Whilst Im sure this was disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, I do need to take into 
consideration that AXA dealt with this mistake in a prompt manner. Im satisfied that the 
compensation offer is reasonable. I wont be asking it to make any further payment.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman