DRN-3159969
The complaint
Ms K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to send her new account cards.
What happened
Ms K says she asked HSBC for a new account card but didnt receive it. She says she was 
without an account card for about six weeks and made a number of telephone calls to HSBC 
about this issue. Ms K accepts that some of the problems were not HSBCs fault as she lived 
in a flat with problems getting her mail but says overall it badly handled this issue. She also 
says she attended a branch to pick up a new account card, but it hadnt been correctly 
ordered. Ms K would like further compensation and says HSBCs offer isnt enough.
HSBC says it isnt responsible for the safe delivery of the mail and isnt responsible for Ms 
Ks mail being intercepted where she lives. It accepts it could have dealt with other parts of 
the complaint more appropriately and has paid £25 compensation and offered a further £100 
compensation.
Ms K brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the total compensation offer 
appropriate. The investigator thought HSBC had tried to assist Ms K and that she accepted 
she had problems with her mail.
Ms K doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation offer isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBCs total compensation offer is 
appropriate. I appreciate Ms K will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that HSBC could have dealt with parts of this complaint more 
appropriately. I accept Ms K made a number of telephone calls to HSBC and attended its 
branch. It is not clear why a new card wasnt available at the branch but can see in any 
event HSBC accepts responsibility for parts of the complaint.
The key issue is the question of the compensation award. I appreciate Ms K was caused 
inconvenience but think she still had access to money via other means. I dont think Ms K 
suffered a financial loss here and think that part of the problem was caused by her mail 
being intercepted which HSBC had not control over.
Im satisfied that HSBC total compensation offer of £125 is fair and reasonable and in line 
with the type of awards we would make for this type of complaint. I will leave it to Ms K to 
decide if she wishes to accept the offer as the further £100 doesnt appear to have been paid 
by HSBC.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of a further £100 compensation. Ms Ks acceptance of that offer would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman