DRN-2205007
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim she made on her 
travel insurance policy. 
For the purposes of this decision, all reference to IPA includes its appointed agents. 
What happened
While on holiday, Mrs L went on a sight-seeing trip and took a pair of binoculars that shed 
borrowed from a friend. But the following morning, she realised that she mustve left the 
binoculars on the tour bus. And having asked the excursion company, unfortunately they 
couldnt be found. 
Mrs L reported this to IPA, so it raised a claim under the cover her policy affords for personal 
belongings. However, IPA declined to pay for the binoculars, because Mrs L provided proof 
that they belonged to her friend  and the policy benefit applies only to the insureds 
personal belongings. That is, what Mrs L and her family have ownership of. 
Mrs L thought this was an unfair reason for rejecting the claim and raised a complaint with 
IPA. Again, IPA pointed to the terms of the policy and said it hadnt made an error. Mrs L 
remained unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it and thought that IPA hadnt acted unreasonably, in 
light of the policy terms and conditions making the scope of cover reasonably clear. 
Therefore, she didnt recommend that IPA pay the claim. 
Mrs L does not agree. She maintains that this was a legitimate claim and the policy terms 
are unclear. As she sees it, they do not expressly state that personal belongings must be 
owned by the insured. Bearing this in mind, she thinks its fair to assume that she should be 
covered for items even when borrowed. Especially, when this product is marketed as being 
relatively premier. Therefore, she submits that IPA should indemnify her for at least some 
of the cost of replacement binoculars. 
Because Mrs L does not agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As a regulated insurer, IPA must provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Here the dispute lies in whether the terms of insurance adequately explain what is covered. 
Therefore, Ive considered the policy terms and conditions. 
The section of the policy that sets out the personal belongings benefit states that: This 
benefit applies to Your personal belongings which You take, purchase or hire while on Your 
Trip, Your money and Your travel documents provided that they are kept on You at all 
times, locked in a safe, or in a locked storage area of a vehicle. Further, it goes on to say: 
You will be covered for the following: If Your personal belongings, money and travel 
documents are lost, stolen or damaged. 
In other words, cover will only be afforded to certain individuals for their belongings in the 
event of a loss. In respect of the language used, Im satisfied that a practical interpretation is 
that belongings would be regarded as a persons movable possessions i.e. something that 
is owned. Theres no question that the binoculars did not belong to Mrs L. Because, 
crucially, her friend had purchased them and would be the one out of pocket should they be 
lost or stolen. Therefore, as I see it, Mrs L was not the rightful owner and its fair to consider 
that the binoculars were not her personal belongings. 
According to the policy definitions, you and/or your means the insured. Mrs L is named as 
the insured in this case. Should there be any doubt about this, the terms and conditions also 
define insured as cardmembers and their families (and Mrs L does not dispute that she is a 
cardmember). In any event, by her own admission Mrs L knew her friend who is not a 
family member was not an insured party under this policy. 
In light of this, its my judgment that the policy makes it reasonably clear what the cover 
provides  and I therefore cannot accept that the information IPA provided was unclear or 
misleading. Consequently, I do not find that IPA has unfairly rejected this claim, because its 
decision is in keeping with the terms and conditions of the contract of insurance. It follows 
that I do not require IPA to do anything differently for the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman