DRN-3050288
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the service provided by Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) 
following the purchase of a motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to accredited includes the actions of their agents. 
 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill 
only summarise the events that lead to this complaint.
Mr F took this policy out on 9 February 2021 and it was due to commence on 2 March 2021. 
Mr F had a number of queries about the policy in the days after the sale took place  
particularly about the circumstances in which a courtesy car would be provided if a claim 
was made. He also wanted to receive printed copies of his policy documents rather than just 
electronically by email.
Unsatisfied with a number of issues - but particularly the explanation provided about the 
courtesy car, Mr F chose to cancel this policy on 11 February 2021. Due to administration 
issues, Mr F continued to receive correspondence. This included demand for payment of 
around £60.
Mr F complained to AIE but they didnt uphold his complaint. He then referred the complaint 
to our service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and she recommended that it be upheld. AIE 
didnt respond to the investigators opinion, so the complaint has now been passed to me for 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Its important to point out that our service has made a number of information requests related 
to this complaint to AIE but as of yet we havent received a full and proper response. 
The policy cancellation
Mr F chose to cancel this policy prior to its start date and within the cooling off period. 
The relevant terms state:
CANCELLATION BY YOU DURING THE COOLING OFF PERIOD 
You have the statutory right to cancel Your policy within 14 days from the day of the 
purchase or renewal of the Contract or the date on which You receive the policy or 
renewal documentation whichever is the latter.
.Where this happens, provided Cover has not yet commenced You will be entitled 
to a full refund of the premium paid.
This is important as Mr F chose to cancel the policy. It wasnt an enforced cancellation by 
AIE. This means he shouldnt have been charged any fee for doing so. But he was and I find 
this unfair. AIE explained in their final response letter that the wrong correspondence was 
sent and it seems likely this resulted in the demand for payment notice being sent to Mr F. 
As already mentioned, AIE have failed to provide requested information to our service about 
this complaint. For completeness, as theres uncertainty over how the cancelation was 
recorded, I find that they need to ensure that this cancelation doesnt adversely affect Mr F 
going forward. Ive set out my direction below under the heading Putting things right.
Trouble and upset caused
Mr F has described the trouble and upset this experience has caused him. I find that 
although the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic may well have affected AIEs staff 
numbers in the office - which lead to a knock-on effect on their ability to send out post or 
respond to customer queries, there were still unreasonable mistakes and delays here that 
warrant some compensation for Mr F. 
For example, after the policy had been cancelled by Mr F, AIE sent demand for payment on 
22 February 2021, with the threat of passing the debt onto collection agencies. Or AIE 
sending Mr F a letter claiming the policy had been cancelled because hed failed to provide a 
copy of his license rather than referencing Mr Fs request to cancel the policy himself. 
I find the £100 proposed by our investigator to be fair, reasonable and proportionate to the 
impact of AIEs actions on Mr F. 
Putting things right
As its not clear how this cancellation has been recorded, AIE should (if it hasnt already 
done so) ensure that any policy cancelation is corrected and not recorded on Mr Fs record 
and any relevant insurance databases. The cancellation should be recorded as a 
cancellation by Mr F and not an enforced cancellation by AIE. 
This applies to wherever it is recorded, including, but not limited to the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This is to ensure there are no adverse effects for Mr F 
moving forward; 
AIE should also ensure that any outstanding balance is corrected and not recorded on 
Mr Fs account; and 
AIE should also pay Mr F £100 for any trouble and upset caused by their actions. 
 
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to follow my direction 
as set under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman