DRN-2667686
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs M took out a PPI policy in 2000 alongside a mortgage. The policy covered Mrs M for up 
to 24 months if she was unable to work due to being too unwell or becoming unemployed. 
And she paid a monthly amount for the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mrs M and Halifax. During that meeting Halifax 
should have made Mrs M aware she had a choice in buying the policy. Mrs M has said she 
was unaware the policy had been added. 
Halifax has been able to provide copies of the some of the mortgage documents Mrs M 
completed at the time, including a copy of the PPI application form and a section of her 
mortage application. The PPI application form contains information about Mrs Ms 
employment and answers to a number of questions about her health. The form is pre-printed 
with these details. I think a conversation took place between Mrs M and Halifaxs employee 
and the form has been completed based on what was discussed and printed out for Mrs M to 
read and sign. 
The mortgage application includes a section about PPI which asks applicants to sign if they 
would like to take advantage of the policy. Mrs M has signed in agreement for this. 
As Mrs M signed both forms, I think if there was anything contained on either of the 
applications she wasnt sure about or hadnt agreed to, she would have had the opportunity 
to question it at the time. 
Based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think its likely the 
optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mrs M has told me makes me 
think Halifax didnt follow its normal process here. 
So overall, I think its more likely Halifax made it clear to Mrs M she had a choice about the 
PPI, and she agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended the policy to Mrs M. So, it had to check it was right for her. 
Looking at Mrs Ms circumstances she seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs M 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs M says she would have received sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI would 
have paid out alongside these benefits and for longer. And Mrs M didnt have any other 
means  such as savings  to make her mortgage repayments. So, it seems she had a need 
for the policy. Mrs M had borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial 
commitment on her own, which was secured on her home. So, I think having the security 
that her mortgage repayments would be made if Mrs M was unable to work would have been 
important to her. Especially in the absence of her having any other means of making those 
repayments and that she was solely responsible for the monthly repayments. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Halifax gave 
Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Mrs M chose to take out the 
PPI  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained 
above  it looks like the policy would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for her. So, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mrs M off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think Mrs M has lost out by anything Halifax might have done wrong. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said  including what shes said about not being 
able to claim on the policy when she lost her job. But Ive only looked at the complaint about 
the selling of the PPI and for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont agree the PPI was 
mis-sold. So, this point doesnt change my decision. If Mrs M is unhappy with her claim 
being declined, she will need to raise this as a separate complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman