DRN-3418519
The complaint
Mrs S complains that a car acquired with finance from Mercedes Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs S was supplied with a car and entered into a contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS. Mrs S experienced issues with the navigation system. She reported 
this to the supplying dealer and several attempts at repair were made but the issues 
continued. 
Mrs S complained to MBFS. It responded and said it would take the car back and settle the 
finance. It offered to return the deposit on a pro rata basis, as well as refund 10% of the 
monthly payments. As an alternative, if Mrs S wanted to keep the car, MBFS said it would 
refund 10% of the payments and pay £300 compensation.
Mrs S wasnt happy with the offer and complained to this service. She wants more than 10% 
of the payments returned and all of her deposit back. She also wants compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said I was satisfied that MBFS had accepted that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality, because it had agreed a rejection. I said that in these 
circumstances, MBFS should refund all of Mrs Ss deposit. I said that because Mrs S had 
been able to use the car, I didnt think it was fair to ask MBFS to refund all of the monthly 
payments. Instead, I said MBFS should refund 5% of the payments to reflect the loss of 
enjoyment suffered by Mrs S as a result of having to drive the car with the fault. I said the 
compensation offered by MBFS (£300) was fair.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to raise.
Mrs S replied and said she had been looking for a new car but that there were delays in 
being able to obtain one, which she said would cause her problems because she needed a 
car to take her children to school. She said she felt anxious about being left without a car. 
She said that she would like to propose that MBFS deducted the value of her deposit, 5% of 
her payments and £300 compensation from the balance owed under the agreement and that 
she would then pay the outstanding balance and keep the car. Mrs S said that the 
outstanding balance was £18,257.
MBFS didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the proposal put forward by Mrs S. But this hasnt been agreed by MBFS 
and it doesnt accord with the available remedies under the relevant legislation. MBFS has 
agreed to accept a rejection of the car. Rejection means that the car is returned. If Mrs S 
wishes to retain the car  which she has proposed before  MBFS has said it would refund 
10% of her monthly payments and pay £300 compensation. I think this is a fair offer if Mrs S 
wants to keep the car.
That said, Im persuaded that the car isnt of satisfactory quality and that the appropriate 
remedy here is rejection.
Putting things right
To put things right, MBFS must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs S
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution
Refund 5% of the monthly payments made by Mrs S
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £300 for distress and inconvenience 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman