DRN-4401112
The complaint
Mrs S brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of her late father, Mr M. She says that 
Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity International, and hereafter 
referred to as Fidelity) has acted unfairly in respect of the administration of Mr Ms stocks 
and shares ISA, after he sadly passed away in early 2022. 
Mrs S says Fidelity caused unnecessary administrative burdens when she asked it to 
transfer the funds within the ISA to Mr Ms nominated beneficiary within his Will  something 
that did not happen with other financial businesses that held investments for the late Mr M. 
Mrs S believes Fidelitys actions caused a financial loss, as the ISA value reduced before 
settlement was made. She also considers that compensation for distress and inconvenience 
ought to be paid to her and her family due to Fidelitys actions.  
What happened
Mrs S first made her request to Fidelity to release the ISA funds on 3 May 2022. She is a 
named executor for the Will of the late Mr M, along with her mother and sister. She 
explained that Mr Ms instructions were that the ISA funds should be transferred to her 
mother.   
Accordingly, Fidelity sent Mrs S a guide for executors and administrators as well as a small 
estates form and an inherited ISA allowance form to complete and return. 
On 1 June 2022, Mrs S complained to Fidelity during a telephone call. She said that 
Fidelitys requirement to have the documentation signed and witnessed by all three 
executrices was onerous  as her sister lived overseas and required a different form. She 
noted that other businesses where Mr M held investments had not made this request.   
After a further call on 6 June, Fidelity issued a final response to her complaint on 7 June 
2022. It apologised to Mrs S, noting her unhappiness with its processes. However, it 
explained that it was entitled to determine what information it required to release the funds 
from Mr Ms account  and this was not affected by how other businesses may or may not 
operate. It therefore did not agree that the complaint should succeed.  
On 5 September 2022, the required documentation was returned by Mrs S on behalf of 
herself, her mother and sister. However, the small estates form was not signed so Fidelity 
sent a further letter to Mrs S about this on 8 September 2022.    
On 16 September 2022, Fidelity received the signed form back from Mrs S. It accordingly 
sold the holdings within the late Mr Ms ISA and paid the proceeds by BACS to the 
requested account on 22 September 2022.  
In October 2022, Mrs S brought the complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint, but he did not believe it should be upheld. He said that he felt 
Fidelity had acted fairly and it was able to determine its own processes for releasing the ISA 
funds to Mrs Ss mother. Any movement of invested funds due to market volatility hadnt 
been the fault of Fidelity  and this had been explained to Mrs S at the time.  
Mrs S disagreed, and made a number of further comments. She said:  
she does not agree with the outcome and wants the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman;
she noted that Fidelity is bound by professional standards laid out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) in its principles on treating customers fairly (TCF);
Mrs S believed TCF Outcome 6 which says, Consumers do not face unreasonable 
post-sale barriers imposed by firms to change product, switch provider, submit a 
claim or make a complaint applied in her circumstances;
the process Fidelity followed was neither fair nor reasonable because: 
othe consideration for low value estates was not sufficiently separate and it 
created a disproportionate process;
othis is imposed on consumers dealing with estates at a time of great 
vulnerability;
othe small estates paperwork says that identification may be required  but in 
fact, Fidelity insists upon it;
oFidelity was pedantic in returning the form in September 2022 which missed 
one signature, as the witnessing solicitor had signed the form elsewhere;
the investment value given by Fidelity on 24 May 2022 of £19,522.77 should apply;
there is no need to speculate on the impact of financial markets that caused a 
reduction from this figure  the reduction occurred due to the delay by Fidelity;
she is disappointed by this services approach to compensation for distress, which 
means bereaved individuals can be treated abysmally by financial institutions without 
any financial consequence. 
Fidelity had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter has awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Id also like to extend my condolences to Mrs S and her family. I can see from her 
correspondence how she feels strongly about this matter, which has been particularly 
upsetting during a time of bereavement. However, I am not able to uphold this complaint or 
make any award in these circumstances. Ill explain my reasons for that below.
When deciding complaints (in accordance with the rules of this service), I will determine the 
outcome by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint. In assessing what is fair and reasonable, Ill take into account relevant law, 
regulations, rules, guidance, and standards. So I am mindful of the points Mrs S has made 
about the requirements placed upon Fidelity to treat its customers fairly. 
However, we are not the regulator; that role falls to the FCA. So, I wont be making findings 
on how I believe Fidelity ought to have approached the settlement process. Having looked 
carefully at the timeline of events, I believe Fidelity did make clear what was required of Mrs 
S and her family as executors of Mr Ms estate in respect of accessing the funds within his 
ISA. 
It replied promptly to Mrs Ss notification in May 2022. Within the correspondence, it sent 
guidance on the required steps it had in place as a business in order to release the funds to 
an estate. I believe the information was clear, and reasonable. And I cannot agree that the requirements in respect of small estates was disproportionate to that of larger estates. 
In my view, Fidelity has supplied timely replies with sufficient information and explanations to 
Mrs S at the relevant times. It also included information sent to Mrs S in May 2022 regarding 
the value of the investment, which said:
What happens to the investments while were waiting for probate?
Although the assets can't usually be touched, they will continue to be invested - 
which means the value could go down as well as up. If you're worried about a 
possible loss in value, investments that were held in an ISA or an Investment 
Account (but not pensions) can be switched to cash. As for any US shares held by 
the deceased, these will automatically be sold once we've been notified of their 
passing away. This will result in a standard share dealing fee as well as an FX 
charge. The proceeds from the sale of the shares will then be held in their account.
I believe this was sufficiently clear to place Mrs S and her family on notice of the potential for 
continued fluctuations in the investment value whilst the administration was completed 
before Fidelity could release the funds  unless the investment was switched to cash. I also 
do not find Fidelity caused any delay, such that it should otherwise be accountable for any 
loss between May and September 2022. 
As Ive said previously, I am not going to make findings that relate to the remit of the FCA. I 
have otherwise considered whether the administration of this matter was reasonable on 
Fidelitys part, and I believe it was. For example, I have considered Fidelitys actions 
carefully in ensuring it has promptly and fairly updated Mrs S about the steps required to 
release the ISA funds  to determine if I think any compensation is due for distress or upset 
as well as whether I believe it was liable for any financial loss (which I do not find it was).  
However, even if I were able to award compensation, I cannot do so to the representative of 
an estate; our rules do not permit it. We are bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules 
which apply to this service as set out in the FCA Handbook. An ombudsman is not able to 
avoid the rules or apply discretion to certain rules. Complaints made to this service must be 
pursued by an eligible complainant (for example, a consumer or a micro-enterprise) and 
those complaints must be about acts or omissions by businesses when carrying out certain 
regulated activities  in this case, Fidelity processing the release of the funds for the late Mr 
Ms investment ISA. 
DISP rule 2.7.2 R allows a third party to bring a complaint on behalf of an eligible 
complainant (such as an investor) to this service, for example from a representative or an 
executor of an estate for an eligible complainant that has since passed away. But that 
doesnt mean the representative is an eligible complainant in their own right. Mrs S is a 
representative and not a complainant in her own right  she is not party to the investment 
relationship Mr M held with Fidelity; instead she is one of the executrices for Mr Ms estate.
Though this service can make further awards for the distress a business has caused in 
relation to a complaint (DISP 3.7.2 R), and whilst a complaint can be made to this service by 
a representative on behalf of an eligible complainant - or the estate of a complainant that has 
passed away - that doesnt confer the right to receive a money award to the representative.
That means I even if I were minded to do so, I cannot make an award for upset, distress or 
anguish caused to Mrs S, her mother or her sister in respect of their view on the perceived 
administrative burdens caused by Fidelity in these circumstances. I know Mrs S feels that 
this is unreasonable  but our rules do not allow me to consider it. If Mrs S requires, our 
investigator can send her the link to access the relevant part of the FCA Handbook online. In any event, I would not otherwise deem that any compensation is due in these 
circumstances, either for financial loss or any upset caused. That is since I dont find Fidelity 
to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in setting out its settlement process or applying that 
process to Mrs S for withdrawal of ISA holdings on behalf of deceased customers.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs S and her family, I am not able to uphold her complaint on 
behalf of the estate of the late Mr M. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mrs S, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr M, to accept or reject my 
decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman