DRN-2352815
The complaint
Mr A complains as a director of M, a company, that Fairmead Insurance Limited has rejected 
its residential property owners policy claim for fire damage to its unoccupied building.  
What happened
M exchanged contracts on the purchase of the property in February 2019, and took out the 
policy at the same time. Completion of the purchase took place in April 2019. In May 2019 
Mr A was notified there had been a fire at the property, which had caused considerable 
damage. A claim was made to Fairmead who appointed loss adjusters. The property had 
been broken into and vandalised, a number of sinks removed from their pedestals and 
smashed. After inspecting the damage and obtaining full details from Mr A, the loss 
adjusters appointed a forensic examiner (H) to report on the likely cause of the fire. 
Hs report set out that the property had been broken into, and the likely cause of the fire was 
due to unauthorised human activity, either accidental or deliberate. He couldnt say what had 
started the fire and there was no evidence of an accelerant being used.
Fairmead rejected the claim. It said the damage had likely been caused by a malicious act, 
taking into account that the property had been broken into and vandalised. Under the terms 
of the policy, as the property was unoccupied, malicious acts werent covered. It further said 
that an unoccupancy condition in respect of carrying out regular inspections of the property, 
hadnt been complied with. Further it noted that on buying the property, steel shutters had 
been removed and replaced by boarding although it wasnt clear whether even that was in 
place at the time of the fire. It had concerns about the overall security and the credibility of 
Mr As mileage/inspection log, and further said that combustible materials were left on the 
premises, again in breach of the unoccupancy condition. It apologised for a delay in making 
its decision in respect of the claim, and paid compensation of £100.
On referral to this service our investigator said the complaint should be upheld.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the question of whether the exclusion for malicious acts was drawn adequately to Mr As 
attention, I bear in mind that the policy was specifically taken out to cover an unoccupied 
property. In that respect there was a specific endorsement on the policy concerning, 
amongst other points, weekly inspections. And Mr A was aware of that. The endorsement 
also says that the policy itself must be referred to in respect of what is not covered in the 
case of unoccupancy. A number of perils arent covered when the property is unoccupied, 
including malicious acts and I wouldnt have expected attention to be drawn specifically to 
each and every one of them. Im satisfied that Mr A was made adequately aware of what 
was covered and not covered whilst the property was unoccupied.
malicious acts
Fire is one of the perils covered when the property is unoccupied, and M has shown that, on 
the face of it, there was a fire covered by the policy. But if it can be said that the fire was 
started by a malicious act, then it is excluded as the property was unoccupied.  Clearly there 
were trespassers on the premises, these were seen by witnesses and the property was 
broken into and other malicious acts, like smashing the sinks, took place. 
However H wasnt able to say that the cause of the fire was a malicious act  bearing in 
mind no accelerant was found. He said it was likely to be a result of unauthorised human 
activity but couldnt see if it was accidental or deliberate. He said there could have been 
several seats of the fire but wasnt able to show that that was the case. I dont think its been 
shown that it was more likely that a malicious act caused the fire as opposed to an 
accidental cause (e.g. a dropped cigarette).
failure to carry out inspections
The policy does require, when the property is unoccupied, that there be internal and external 
inspections of the property at least every 14 days, and that a weekly log of such inspections 
be maintained. Mr A has produced a mileage claim log in support of this having been done.
Fairmead has said that although the log shows inspections to have taken place every 14 
days, it doesnt show that the property was actually inspected internally. Also it didnt record 
any concerns - Fairmead thinks there would have been such concerns to report. Further it 
thinks the log may have been created after the event.
The policy doesnt stipulate what form the log should take, and I wouldve thought that had it 
been created after the event it wouldnt have been in the form of a mileage log. Ive noted 
that the inspections didnt show up anything of concern, but given the short time period 
between completion of the purchase and the claim, its just speculation to suggest there 
would have been any such incidents. I think it reasonable to accept that the required 
inspections were carried out within the terms of the policy endorsement.
combustible materials
The endorsement requires all waste and combustible materials to be removed. There were 
cardboard boxes and other household goods in the attic, and a rubbish bin and toaster 
smashed on the lounge floor. Fairmead says these are all combustible materials.
I understand that he boxes were full of files, rather than being waste, but nevertheless were 
combustible and shouldve been removed. I understand that the bin and toaster were 
smashed by the trespassers, but again these dont appear to have been connected to the 
fire. 
As I understand it the fire didnt affect the attic, so the presence of such items wasnt 
material to the claim. So I think that M has shown, as per s 11 of the Insurance Act 2015, 
that any non-compliance with the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which 
actually occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred. So in my view Fairmead cant 
rely on any alleged breach of this term.
boarding
Fairmead pointed out that steel shutters were removed when M completed the purchase. 
When it interviewed Mr As fellow director on site the loss adjuster was told no boarding was 
put up. Mr A says this was a misunderstanding, and the mileage log shows that the property was attended for the boarding up to take place. There is an invoice for this but it doesnt 
show the actual date it was done.
Whilst there is some doubt as to whether the boarding was in place at the time of the fire, I 
think if the mileage log is accepted it would seem to confirm it was in place. The loss 
adjuster said the fire officers who attended could have confirmed this, but Fairmead doesnt 
appear to have attempted to find this out.
There was no particular requirement for the property to be boarded up, in wood or steel. I 
think it likely that it was in in place but its irrelevant to the cause of the fire. 
overall
Overall I think the claim should be paid. I understand that Mr A has had the repairs carried 
out, so any settlement will have to be a cash settlement. I should emphasise that, although 
this was raised by the loss adjusters, though not pursued at the time, I havent considered 
the question of underinsurance.
Im satisfied that Fairmead paid a reasonable sum for compensation, of £100, as there was 
some delay in it reaching a decision. Generally such claims take some time to determine 
owing to the need to gather evidence and consult experts.  
Putting things right
The appropriate settlement is for Fairmead to settle the claim for fire damage. The property 
is also covered for damage caused by the emergency services in gaining access to the 
home and this should be paid as well. This is subject to the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
To any cash settlement Fairmead should add simple interest* at 8% per year from the date 
M paid for any repairs until the date it reimburses such payment.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to act in accordance with 
what I have said under Putting things right above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021
*Fairmead Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest 
paid. Should M request it, Fairmead should provide it with a certificate showing how much tax has 
been taken off so that, if appropriate, it can reclaim it. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman