DRN-1712595
The complaint 
Mr M complains that Gregory Pennington Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to him when he entered into a debt management plan in 2007. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M didnt agree with that view. He said he was bullied to buy the PPI policy at a time when 
he was in financial difficulties and Gregory Pennington knew they were the only people who 
could help him. He found the PPI repayments difficult and wouldnt have agreed to the cover 
if hed known he had a choice. 
Although Gregory Pennington agreed with the outcome our adjudicator came to, it took issue 
with some of her reasoning. Our adjudicator had said that she couldnt say whether the cost 
of the PPI had been made clear to Mr M. Gregory Pennington reiterated its position that it 
believed the cost was set out fully. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case. 
I am very sorry to disappoint Mr M, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain 
why below. 
The PPI was sold to Mr M on the telephone. I cant know what was said during that call. So 
to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what the parties told us 
about it. Ive also considered some guidance that Gregory Pennington issued to its call 
operatives at that time. 
The first thing Ive looked at is whether Mr M would have known the PPI was optional and he 
could have refused it if he didnt want it. Mr M says he was bullied, and that Gregory 
Pennington told him the cover was a requirement of the debt management plan. I dont 
doubt that what Mr M told us about the sale is what he honestly remembers about it. And I 
think that Mr Ms initial contact with Gregory Pennington would have been a stressful 
experience for him  hes told us he was in financial trouble and he was struggling at the 
time.  
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly, but where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are 
here), I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That means I must decide 
whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence before me.
Ive considered at length the guidance that was issued to Gregory Penningtons call 
operators. It is of course possible that this document wasnt followed to the letter. But I can 
see it was emphasised there that the cover was optional and also as an extra option. I appreciate Mr M would have felt under stress during this call, but on the evidence before me, 
 I cant say that the call operator would have deviated from the guidance so far as to say Mr 
M had to buy the PPI.
Im aware that this doesnt fit with Mr Ms genuine recollection, but objectively, I think it 
probably was made clear that he didnt have to take the cover if he didnt want it.  
When it sold PPI to Mr M, Gregory Pennington had to give him enough information about the 
policy so he could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information 
had to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
I appreciate that Gregory Pennington is adamant that its call operative would have clearly 
set out the relevant information. In the absence of a call recording, as I said above, I cant 
say that the guidance would have been followed to the letter. I think its possible that Mr M 
wasnt given all of the necessary information. But that doesnt mean I can automatically 
uphold the complaint. I now have to consider whether Mr M would have acted differently if 
Gregory Pennington had told him everything it should have done. 
To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive 
also thought about what Mr M told us about his personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the PPI, his repayments towards the debt 
management plan would have been covered for up to 12 months if he became unwell or if he 
lost his job. I appreciate Mr M said he had some sick pay, but I think the PPI cover would 
have lasted for longer than his full pay at work. And he said he didnt have any other means 
of making repayments if he wasnt working. 
I know Mr M said that he struggled to make the PPI payments. Ive seen the income and 
expenditure details that he gave Gregory Pennington at the time. With that in mind, I know 
Mr M would have been on a tight budget, but I dont think the PPI cover would have been 
unaffordable. 
Mr M was in good health at the time he bought the policy, so he wouldnt have been affected 
by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything unusual 
about his wider circumstances that would have stopped him from being able to make a 
successful claim if he needed to. 
Putting all of these things together, I think PPI could have been helpful for Mr M if he was out 
of work. I cant say he would have acted differently if Gregory Pennington had told him 
everything it should have done. 
I know Mr M strongly feels he was badly treated by Gregory Pennington. But I cant 
objectively find that PPI was mis-sold. I am sorry to disappoint Mr M, but for the reasons set 
out above, I havent upheld his complaint. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about Gregory Pennington Limited. 
 
 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman