DRN-4237882
The complaint
 Mr H(1), and his son Mr H (2) complain about Yorkshire Building Societys (YBS) approach 
and requirements in relation to taking Mr H(1)s name off an account. They would like YBS to 
improve its processes and customer service. They would also like compensation for the 
inconvenience
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I can see from the information provided that Mr H(1) tried on a number of occasions 
to have his name taken off Mr H(2) s account. As I understand it the information Mr 
H(1) provided wasnt sufficient  he provided what he thought should be needed but 
not what YBS required. So, whilst I appreciate the inconvenience several attempts to 
rectify the issue would have caused, it seems to me this was primarily down to Mr 
H(1) not accepting what YBS required.
YBS required  a new application form from Mr H(2) , ID, and a letter of authority from 
Mr H(1). I can see that both parties may have found this onerous and excessive. 
However, YBS has explained it needed Mr H(2) to agree to its terms and conditions 
and to get up to date information for example Mr H(2)s signature. YBS has explained 
it takes security of customers accounts seriously  and its policies are there to ensure 
funds are protected. I dont find that response unreasonable
Mr H(1) feels RBSs requirements fall outside of Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Guidelines. As our investigator has explained we are not the regulator and its not for 
us to tell businesses what policies to have or what processes to use.
In terms of the comments Mr H(1) has made about YBSs customer service I found 
YBSs correspondence to be factual and polite and not  terse rude or unpleasant 
as Mr H(1) described. In one email an apology is given in response to Mr H(1)s 
comments about the tone of correspondence received. In relation to the email in 
question I found no issue with the tone, but I think it was helpful that RBS responded 
in the way it did given how Mr H(1) viewed the email.
I understand RBS didnt comply with Mr H(1)s request that his complaint be referred 
to its Chief Executive Officer (CEO). It has explained this was due to concluding no 
new issues had been raised, and complaints referred to the CEO are sent to the 
complaints team to handle so it would have been referred back to the team who were 
already dealing with Mr H(1). On reflection it has told us it perhaps should have 
explained this to Mr H(1), and I agree that would have been helpful. But I dont feel 
this one issue is grounds for compensation. It is however something RBS might want 
to bear in mind in the future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman