DRN-3714011
The complaint
Mr O complains that he has experienced intermittent but persistent problems with emails 
from Nationwide Building Society, since 2020. Mr O says that Nationwide has sought to 
blame these problems on him, but theyre caused by Nationwide, and he wants this fixed.
What happened
Mr O told us he signed up for email correspondence with Nationwide several years ago, as 
soon as it was possible to do so. And he said this worked well until 2020. But then he 
stopped receiving email notifications that his credit card statements were ready to view 
online. He started getting letters instead. Mr O initially thought this was due to a problem with 
a positive credit card balance at the time, and that this might resolve itself, but it didnt.
Mr O said when he complained, Nationwide gave him a number of possible causes for the
problem which he knew werent true. Nationwide said it had started issuing paper
correspondence because it had received notifications that his emails werent received. But at
the same time, it suggested his emails had been caught by a spam filter, and its address
needed to be whitelisted.
Mr O said both things cant be true. Either the emails it was sending hadnt been delivered,
and Nationwide was notified, of this, or emails were delivered and caught by his spam filter.
Mr O also said Nationwide suggested the problem could be that hed only just gone
paperless, which he hadnt.
Nationwide told Mr O that the problems were a result of changes it had been made to
perform on the content within the statement notification emails. These changes were
regulatory requirements. But Mr O said Nationwide hadnt explained why this initially only
affected one set of notifications.
Mr O said Nationwide also told him this appeared to be affecting account holders with private
domain names. Mr O has long operated such a domain name for his emails.
Mr O started receiving email notifications again in October 2020, and he thought that meant
the issue was resolved. But the problem started, with missing credit card notifications, in
March or April 2021, then it also spread to his current account email notifications too. Mr O
said Nationwide admitted that since the changes in March 2020 a lot of private domain name
email addresses had become more sensitive. It repeated the same excuses about
whitelists and spam filters, and suggested Mr O should use a different email provider.
Mr O has told us hes very comfortable with IT issues, and hes carried out extensive testing
to be sure that none of these problems are at his end. He said the company that provides
internet hosting for him has also checked carefully, as best it can without full information
from Nationwide, and it has concluded that the missing emails simply arent reaching it. Mr O
has shown us emails evidencing this work done by his internet hosting company.
Mr O said this problem was only affecting some of his emails from Nationwide. It wasnt
affecting marketing emails, or emails about his complaint.
Mr O said this now meant he hadnt received notification of a change to the terms and
conditions of his credit card, or information about Nationwides AGM in time to attend. Mr O
said Nationwide shouldnt just change his communication preferences without even telling
him about this, and it must ensure that important documentation was safely delivered.
Mr O wanted us to do an in-depth investigation to find out what was going wrong. And he
wanted us to challenge Nationwide about why it was using email to send things like AGM
voting rights and changes to terms, when it knew there was a problem with delivery.
Nationwide said it was aware some customers were having problems receiving emails
following restrictions brought in in 2020. It said it couldnt do anything to fix this, it had given
Mr O things to try on his end. It couldnt confirm the emails left its servers, unfortunately, the
emails were automated, and millions were sent each day, so there were no screenshots or
evidence of the emails going to Mr O.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, but not quite in the way Mr O
wanted. He said Nationwide didnt really know what the problem was. Our investigator was
satisfied the problem was with Nationwides systems, but our service cant make Nationwide
change that. So our investigator said hed done what he could, which was to consider the
impact this has had on Mr O, and what Nationwide had done to put things right.
Our investigator noted Mr O preferred not to change his email provider, as Nationwide
suggested. So he wasnt getting email alerts for his current account and credit card account
statements. He could still access his accounts online to check monthly statements.
Mr O also hadnt received important correspondence. Our investigator said Nationwide knew
about problems with Mr Os emails, so it should have sent this by post. And Mr O had been
considerably inconvenienced, trying to resolve the problems with his emails.
Our investigator said Nationwide should confirm with Mr O if hed like to start receiving post
again, so that he does receive important account information. And it should pay Mr O £150
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Mr O didnt agree. He didnt want compensation, he wanted Nationwide to get to the bottom
of things and fix the problem. Mr O also said Nationwide had recently contacted him and told
him he was complaining too much, and it needed to stop or he could take his business
elsewhere. Mr O said the things he was complaining about were all one issue, and he only
kept raising it because Nationwide was just not fixing the problem.
Mr O thought Nationwide might be breaking consumer law by not ensuring key information
actually reached him. He thought we should be applying punitive fines to Nationwide.
Mr O said he was very concerned to see Nationwide had now told him it was going to 
automatically change his account to paperless in future, and would send everything by 
email. And Nationwide hadnt told him what would happen if he tried to change back to 
paper, or if this would keep happening to him.
Nationwide also disagreed. It said Mr O had initially complained that when emails stopped 
reaching him, he started getting correspondence by post. At this point, Nationwide changed 
Mr Os preferences back to email. Thats why the AGM information was sent by email. 
Nationwide said it had explained to Mr O repeatedly that the problems he was having were 
probably happening because he is using a private domain. It repeated its previous 
suggestions about what could have gone wrong, and how Mr O could fix things.Nationwide said when emails bounce back, it would only send paper statements if there
were charges on the account, which it must legally notify Mr O of. If there werent nothing
would be sent. If emails keep bouncing back on an account for six months, then customers
are automatically changed to paper statements. This may have affected to Mr O. Nationwide
said Mr O changed his preferences himself in February 2022 to have paper mailings again.
Nationwide didnt think it should have to pay compensation for what had happened here.
Our investigator issued a second view, saying our service is not a regulator, and we cant
make Nationwide change its systems. But he still thought Nationwide should pay the
compensation hed proposed. He didnt think it was fair for Nationwide to conclude the
problem was caused by Mr Os email service provider.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide should have changed Mr Os email preferences to
paper without telling him. But it seemed that Mr O and Nationwide were now at an impasse
about the email issue, so our investigator said it would be reasonable for Nationwide to now
communicate by post.
Our investigator understood Mr O was unhappy that Nationwide had suggested he should
take his business elsewhere because it cant do any more about the emails. But Nationwide
had told us it cant fix this, and if so, and Mr O still wants banking services that are able to
use his email domain then that might be the only option for him.
Our investigator still thought that Nationwide should pay Mr O £150 to compensate him for
the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Nationwide agreed to pay in order to resolve the complaint, although it said it hadnt done
anything wrong. But Mr O said he wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, so it
came to me for a full review and then a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I asked Nationwide some questions, to see if a particular 
solution might work here, and also to find out why Nationwide hadnt already explored 
such a solution with Mr O. It also wasnt clear that Mr O could revert to paper 
correspondence, because Nationwide had recently written to him to say it was going to 
convert him to electronic correspondence (although it knows he doesnt receive this). So 
I wanted to know whether Nationwide actually proposed to make that change.
The extent and detail of the evidence Mr O provided, and his clear understanding of the 
issues raised, made me think it was very unlikely that this problem lay at his end. So I 
asked Nationwide if the problem could one this service was already aware of and that Id 
seen before, which is that it isnt caused by Mr Os private domain name, but by 
something closely associated with it  a very short or generic prefix for an email 
address. (The widely available nature of public domain names means these sorts of 
prefixes just arent found there.)
Nationwide confirmed the third party email despatch company sending the emails which 
werent reaching Mr O was the same as the previous instance. But it repeated that this 
company felt Mr O needed to whitelist its email address.Nationwides response on whether it would continue to try to move Mr O to email 
correspondence was unclear. It said he could set preferences, but didnt clarify whether 
it would try to amend these for him, or continue to prompt him to do so, in future.
Nationwide said Mr O had made four complaints within twelve months, and this was the 
first time his domain name had been mentioned. Nationwide said its suggestion that Mr 
O might like to bank elsewhere was unrelated to the issue of missing emails.
I remain of the view that its very unlikely the problem is caused by Mr O or his email 
provider, or that whitelisting (which Mr O says has always been in place) would solve 
this problem. I set out in detail for Nationwide the evidence it had been able to supply to 
this service previously, in similar situations, and asked whether such evidence would 
also be available here.
Mr O told us that the only thing hes complained to Nationwide about is this problem with 
his emails. So I also asked for more detail on Mr Os complaints since the start of 2020.
Nationwide sent a summary of the complaints Mr O had raised since 2020. It logged 
three complaints from him in 2020, none of which touch on his concerns about missing 
emails. It logged this complaint, which our service is now addressing, in April 2021. 
There are then three further complaints in 2021, only one of which is linked to this issue. 
So I do think Mr O has expressed more wide-ranging dissatisfaction with the service 
provided by Nationwide. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide to 
highlight that he didnt seem happy with its service, and ask if he wanted to change 
provider.
Although theres no complaint on Nationwides list about missing emails in 2020, I do 
still think its likely that Mr O did initially raise his concerns about not receiving emails 
then. Mr O told us Nationwide raised an incident for this at the time, and he gave us a 
number for this. That number doesnt match the format of the numbers given to 
Nationwides complaints. But looking at Nationwides internal chats about Mr Os case, it 
does match the numbering system that Nationwide assigns internally. So I do think Mr O 
told Nationwide about the difficulties he was having with emails in 2020. Nationwide may 
simply not have recorded this contact as a complaint at that time.
Nationwide also said time constraints meant it was not now able to offer our service the 
additional evidence which it had been able to provide on a similar issue in the past. 
At the same time as I raised my second round of queries with Nationwide, I also 
suggested to Mr O that he change the email address for a longer prefix on his 
Nationwide emails, and reinstate email correspondence, to see if this might help. Mr O 
agreed to try. He said if this was the problem, then it had to be something done by 
Nationwide. And he didnt want our service to tell Nationwide that wed asked him to do 
this  he wanted to see what would happen if Nationwide didnt have an opportunity to 
force emails through.
Our service didnt tell Nationwide we had asked Mr O to do this. And Mr O has now 
confirmed that, whilst of course he couldnt be sure that this would be a permanent 
solution, a longer prefix on his email address had meant he started receiving emails 
again.
Mr O thought a rule stopping emails being sent to any address with a short prefix was a 
ridiculous rule to have in place, but he said it was even more ridiculous for Nationwide 
not to have just told him, and its other customers, two and half years ago, that this was 
likely to be the problem. He wanted to know how long Nationwide had known this was really the problem, and had kept this from him, and how many of its other customers 
had been forced to change domain names. And he stressed the impact of 
correspondence going missing.
I should make clear here that Nationwide has never accepted in this case that the length 
of the prefix might be the issue. Although our service has drawn parallels with the 
previous case where this was the problem, Nationwide still says Mr O needs to whitelist 
its address or change his domain name. I can however see in internal chats within 
Nationwide, that it suggested Mr O be told to use a longer prefix, not just initials, on a 
chat dated 25 May (presumably, 2021).
It does seem most likely that it was the short prefix on Mr Os old email address which 
caused this problem. I think Nationwide could have suggested this change in May 2021.
I dont think Nationwide now has to change the underlying rule here. Thats partly 
because this does appear to be a security precaution taken by Nationwides third party 
email company, and also because the problem appears to be resolved for Mr O. (I 
should say now that if this problem does recur, Mr O can complain again.)
I understand Mr O is concerned about the wider impact this issue must have had, and 
may still be having. But our service isnt a regulator, and we dont exist to punish 
businesses. And I cant make an award on the basis that it will motivate a business to do 
better in future. When I consider the appropriate amount of compensation in a case, I 
can look only at the circumstances of that case. 
But some of the circumstances of this case include that Nationwide has faced 
complaints about this problem before. And in those instances, Nationwide has been able 
to propose a solution to the problem. But here, this problem has been significantly 
prolonged, because Nationwide didnt do that. And Mr O has been put to a considerable 
amount of trouble, over a sustained amount of time. Hes investigated in depth, trying to 
find out for himself whats gone wrong. And hes missed out on important 
correspondence, including for an AGM he would have liked to attend.
Given the length of time that these issues have persisted, in particular, I think that 
Nationwide should pay Mr O £500 in compensation. I think that provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint, so thats what I currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides have now replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O had some comments on the decision, and some points he wanted to clarify. Im happy 
to address those for Mr O here.
Mr O said that Id mentioned a third party email despatch company, and whitelisting their 
email address. Mr O wanted to know if I meant whitelisting Nationwides email address 
(which he had done several years ago) or a separate email address? I can confirm I was 
referring to Nationwides email address. Although Nationwide uses a third party to issue 
some regular emails, those emails are sent from a Nationwide email address.Mr O said that Nationwide staff repeatedly said they would log verbal conversations as 
complaints. So if they didnt do that, this wasnt within his control. Mr O said hed been in 
constant contact with Nationwide over this issue from when it first arose in 2020. I think I 
only need note here that my provisional decision above explains why I decided this was 
likely to be what happened.
Mr O didnt think enough was made of the comments he received from his email supplier to 
suggest that the length restriction on email prefixes wasnt a justified practice. Mr O said this 
wasnt a security precaution, just something one company has unjustifiably implemented.
I said in my provisional decision that this did appear to be a security precaution taken by 
Nationwides third party provider. And I said, in the context that this problem does now 
appear to be solved for Mr O, I didnt think Nationwide needed to change this. I note Mr Os 
views, and those of his email server company, but I dont think its appropriate for me to 
comment more widely here on Nationwides approach to email security.
Mr O said he had no recollection of a chat conversation where he was told to use a longer 
prefix for his emails. I can see that our investigator has explained that this chat was an 
internal document Nationwide had sent us. Mr O has confirmed that Nationwide never 
suggested this to him. And that has always been my understanding in this case.
Mr O then wrote again to say that for a second month in a row, both notification emails had 
arrived. So he did think it was the length of his email prefix which had previously caused the 
problem. He thanked our service for the work wed done to resolve this for him. I appreciate 
Mr Os kind words, and Im glad to hear that things seem to be working for him. I would like 
to thank him, in turn, for working with our service to resolve this. 
Nationwide also wrote in response. It said it had taken the opportunity to review, and had 
decided to change its position. 
Nationwide said it had now discussed specifically with its technology team whether the short 
prefix could have been the cause of the problem, and that team had confirmed this could 
have been the problem. 
Nationwide said when it initially looked at this, in May 2021, it could only see that Mr O had 
been unsubscribed from emails, and reactivating someones emails usually solves the 
problem. But as the issue appeared to be the short prefix on his email address, that didnt 
work here. And Nationwide accepted that it hadnt suggested to Mr O that he change his 
email prefix in May 2021. 
So Nationwide accepted that it had taken many months between May 2021 until July 2022 
for Mr O to resolve the issue and start receiving emails again. Nationwide said it was happy 
to pay the £500 compensation that I had suggested. 
I should make clear that I havent changed my view on when Mr O first reported this 
problem, which I think is likely to have been in 2020, as he said, not May 2021. And I think 
that, given his comments above, Mr O might wish me to note that Nationwide not only did 
not suggest in May 2021 that he might be able to solve this problem by changing his email 
prefix, it doesnt appear to have suggested or accepted this at any point before now. 
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr O £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman