DRN-3046768
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the administration of her investments in her Self Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP) by Curtis Banks Limited (Curtis).
What happened
Mrs P says she held some commercial property within her SIPP. She said Curtis decided to
consolidate administration of all properties to one location. When the properties in Mrs Ps
SIPP were initially migrated, there were a number of problems. She wasnt happy with the
level of service she was receiving and wanted Curtis to cover the cost of transferring her
SIPP to another provider.
Curtis accepted it had made errors. It said it wrote to a tenant at their registered office rather
than the address used in the past. Mrs Ps husband had to intervene and supply the correct
contact details.
It accepted that it had charged fees of just under £1,000 in error. Mrs Ps husband identified
the error. Curtis said it would put in place further checks for the future.
It accepted there was some confusion around a rent invoice for a tenant in autumn 2020 but
the correct amount was requested.
It also clarified that following the internal changes it was no longer possible for Mrs Ps
husband to deal with tenant invoices. However, if she wished he could be appointed under a
property management agreement.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In short I said that Curtis had accepted the view 
of the investigator and his conclusions about the mistakes so there was no need to consider 
these further. I could see that the changes Curtis made to its internal organisation of work 
created a number of problems.
Where a mistake was made Mrs P was entitled to be put back in the position she would have
been in but for the mistakes. That meant I could make an award for any financial loss and
distress and inconvenience.
It seemed that the over charged fees had been refunded and Mrs P had not suggested that
she had suffered any financial loss as a consequence of the errors.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. This was not intended to punish
Curtis but to reflect the impact of the mistakes on Mrs P. Mrs P was represented by her
husband who dealt with many of the property management issues on her behalf. I needed to
consider the impact on Mrs P and not on Mr P. However, I thought she was put to 
inconvenience by the errors as she needed to get her husband to follow up issues for
example chasing up the fees deducted in error. I also thought that would have been 
distressing and undermined her confidence in Curtis for the future. I said that because it had 
deducted nearly £1,000 in fees in error and its systems hadnt highlighted this. This 
combined with the other mistakes clearly reduced her trust in Curtis. Overall, I thought an 
award of £200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I considered Mrs Ps request that Curtis should cover the cost of transferring to another
SIPP provider. But I didnt think that was fair or reasonable. I said that because I had already 
considered awards for financial loss and distress and inconvenience. The errors seemed to 
be related to the internal changes in systems by Curtis and had been corrected. I did not
therefore think such an award would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Curtis Banks Limited should pay Mrs P
£200 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs P said that she still wanted a single person as a point of contact rather than an army of 
unqualified junior staff. She felt the award was no compensation for the amount of time she 
had to spend doing their job for them. 
Curtis did not make any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Mrs P has said I have not changed my mind. The purpose of an 
award for distress and inconvenience is to reflect the impact on Mrs P it is not intended to be 
compensation for the time spent in solving the problems created by the mistakes Curtis has 
made 
In deciding upon the amount of the award I have considered that Curtis took steps to correct 
the mistakes. I have also considered that they caused frustration and annoyance that was 
more than Mrs P might have expected from day to day life and there had been repeated 
errors that required reasonable effort to sort out and took several weeks to resolve.
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision I remain of the view that an 
award of £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note that Mrs P would like a single point of contact. While that seems a very reasonable 
request, I cannot direct Curtis how to run its business so cannot make an award to that 
effect. 
Putting things right
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Curtis Banks Limited should pay Mrs P
£200 for distress and inconvenience.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Curtis Banks Limited should pay Mrs P
£200 for distress and inconvenience.
Such amount to be paid to Mrs P within 30 days of this service notifying Curtis Banks Limited 
that Mrs P has accepted this decision. If Curtis Banks Limited fails to make payment within 
30 days of the date of such notification it shall pay interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple on the amount of £200 from the date of this decision to the date of actual payment to 
Mrs P. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman