DRN-3110404
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr K. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. Lloyds sold Mr K the 
policy when he applied for the card in a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr K and his representatives have said, but Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr K says he has absolutely no recollection of agreeing to PPI, and that it must have been 
added to his account without his knowledge. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness requires that there is reasonable evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt normally be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. 
The sale took place more than 23 years ago. And I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened that long ago, and so it can be difficult to know whether its 
fair to rely fully on everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the 
evidence when considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
And there is some evidence that Mr K chose to take PPI even if, not surprisingly, he doesnt 
now remember it. Ive seen the credit card application form that Mr K appears to have filled 
in. This has a section under Optional features, offering PPI. You have to tick a box to either 
say you want PPI, or that you dont want it. And the yes box has been ticked. I accept its 
possible Mr K didnt tick the box himself  although I have no evidence to show this. 
So it does look likely that Mr K agreed to the PPI. But, in any case, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr Ks consent.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr K, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay the credit 
card bill for a period longer than Mr Ks employment sick pay lasted. And it would have paid 
out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr K more financially 
secure for longer. It would have meant Mr K wouldnt need to fall back on other resources so 
soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been  there is some 
information on the application form, but that by itself wasnt as full as it should have been, 
and I dont know if any other information was given. But I dont think full information about 
costs and benefits would have affected whether he took the PPI. I say this because, in his 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. And it doesnt 
look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman