DRN-4202513
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) promoted 
the Woodford Income Focus Fund (WIFF) on its Wealth 50 list, and other forms of literature, 
until the day it was suspended despite its poor performance. 
Mrs H says she has lost money in this investment and would like HLAM to compensate her 
for it.
Mrs H is being represented by her husband, Mr H, in this complaint. 
What happened
Mrs H transferred an existing stocks and shares ISA from another broker in February 2017. 
She invested in the WIFF between April 2017 and April 2019. At the time, her account was 
execution-only, which meant that HLAM was only responsible for giving effect to her 
investment decisions. 
In February and June 2020, Mr H complained, on Mrs Hs behalf as well, about HLAMs 
promotion of the WIFF. In short, he complained that HLAM hadnt properly monitored the 
performance of the WIFF, and he had been unable to sell prior to suspension, although he 
confirmed that his wife had been able to. He said he and his wife had now lost a significant 
amount of money. 
HLAM looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. In summary, it said that it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said that its belief that the WIFF would perform was properly held, 
but that its Wealth lists made no guarantees. It also explained that Mr H had chosen to hold 
on to his holding in the WIFF after 4 June 2019 when they had been notified that it had been 
removed from the Wealth list. It said that at the time of Mr Hs complaint the WIFF was 
temporarily suspended due to the change in fund manager, but that suspension would be 
lifted shortly. 
Mr H remained unhappy and referred his and Mrs Hs complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said:
HLAM needed to ensure its communications to Mrs H were fair, clear and not 
misleading, and this included its communications about the WIFF. 
The evidence showed that HLAM continued to back the WIFF on the basis of the 
fund managers track record, which is what the promotional material was mainly 
focused on. 
She thought the communications from HLAM were fair, clear and not misleading. 
Furthermore, she considered that while it was reasonable for Mrs H to rely on 
HLAMs communications, it was clear that the decision to invest was her alone. She 
felt that Mrs H had been given a balanced picture of the investment, and it was her 
choice to invest in it and then retain that investment. 
She noted that Mrs H had made reference to the suspension of the WIFF, but had 
confused this with the WEIF. She noted that Mrs H did not have any holdings in the 
WEIF, and the WIFF was only temporarily suspended. She noted that the decision to 
suspend dealing in the WIFF was not something HL had any control over. 
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr H, on 
her behalf, provided a newspaper article that he said supported their complaint, and 
reiterated their main complaint points. In summary:
HLAM actively promoted WIFF, and given that they were experts in their field and 
focused on wealth, as well as being a well-known and prestigious company, Mr and 
Mrs H trusted it. 
The fact that the WIFF was in HLAMs wealth lists was seen by Mr and Mrs H as a 
long-term investment. 
They queried what corrective actions HLAM undertook when WIFF wasnt 
performing to plan  it appeared to them as if HLAM did not conduct ongoing due 
diligence or research, because the poor performance of Woodfords funds were not 
raising concerns. 
They said that Woodford appeared to change his investment approach and HLAM 
did not appear to pick up on this, or the additional risk that this represented to the 
fund. 
Mr and Mrs H queried what Woodford was telling HLAM about his funds and how 
they were performing to convince HLAM to hand over and entrust its investor funds 
to him. 
Mr and Mrs H also queried where the minutes of these meetings were and why they 
werent published. They also asked how much HLAM invested in Woodford, and 
when they withdrew their own investments. 
They concluded by saying that Mrs H had received a risk update on another fund, 
which outlined the steps HLAM had taken in terms of assessing its manager, 
process, culture and oversight and risk processes behind that particular fund 
manager. They queried how often HLAM did this, and whether if they had taken 
these steps with Woodford, it wouldve changed their decision to keep his funds on 
its wealth lists. 
HLAM agreed with the investigator but made further points. In summary it said:
While Woodfords track record was relevant in HLAMs assessment of the WIFF and 
why it was included in its Wealth lists, it was by no means the sole factor in HLAMs 
decision-making. 
It said that HLAM included and retained the WIFF on the Wealth Lists because it had 
for a period of time confidence in the fund manager. It said that HLAM took the view 
that WIFF was invested in sound companies. 
It said that it HLAMs internal monitoring and analysis process involves robust 
challenge and scrutiny of qualitative and quantitative factors to test whether the 
investment team continues to have confidence in the long-term performance potential 
of a fund, and therefore whether to include or retain it on a Wealth List.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has been represented by her husband, Mr H, in this complaint and so the submissions 
he has made have been for both his and her complaint, although this service has necessarily 
treated them as separate complaints. This complaint is only about Mrs Hs investment  
however although there were some differences both in when she invested, and when she 
was able to disinvest, I dont consider those differences make any difference to my findings. 
This means that whilst Ive considered the submissions Mr H has made on behalf of his wife, 
and Ive carefully thought about Mrs Hs particular circumstances when doing so, it shouldnt 
come as a surprise that my findings on her complaint are identical to his. This is because in 
essence, they are identical complaints  both in terms of the standards that HLAM was 
required to adhere to when dealing with Mrs H, and in terms of what I think about how it met 
those standards, particularly in view of its communications around the WIFF. I hope neither 
Mr H nor Mrs H therefore take it as discourtesy that my findings in both cases use, where 
relevant, the same language or make the same points. 
As the investigator has noted, the key aspect in this complaint was HLAMs obligation to 
provide information to Mrs H that was fair, clear and not misleading. It was not obliged to 
ensure that the investment was suitable for Mrs H, nor that it met her needs and objectives  
because thats not the service Mrs H had signed up for. 
At the time, the FCAs High Level Principles applied to HLAMs relationship with Mrs H  
Principle 7 required it to communicate information [to her] in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading and the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 4.2 required HLAMs financial 
promotions to be fair, clear and not misleading too. 
I understand that Mr H believes he and his wife were misled into investing in the WIFF, and 
most importantly, were not properly alerted by HLAM when there were problems with the 
WIFFs performance. Ive considered this complaint very carefully, notwithstanding my view 
that it wasnt HLAMs responsibility to monitor the investment on their behalf. 
I should say first of all that Im not in fact persuaded that HLAM didnt alert Mr and Mrs H to 
periods of underperformance. Although the November 2017 edition of the Wealth 150 list 
simply noted the fund managers rationale behind the management of the WIFF, the June 
2018 Wealth 150+ report clearly noted that it was his rationale, combined with some stock 
specific disappointments that had held back performance. In November 2018 the Wealth 
150+ report noted that the fund had struggled, but that Woodford was sticking to his 
philosophy.
Mrs H didnt disinvest off the back of this commentary. And whilst I accept that it was 
reasonable for her to place some weight on what HLAM was telling her, including its belief 
that the WIFF remained a good long-term investment, Im not persuaded it was reasonable, 
in the particular circumstances of this case, for Mrs H to base her investment decisions 
solely on this commentary. 
And even if she did, its clear to me that she did so fully knowing that WIFF was not 
performing to HLAMs expectations  so she was informed by HLAM that it was 
underperforming. Im not persuaded that the mere presence of the WIFF on the Wealth 150+ 
list ought to have overridden the commentary that HLAM actually provided on the WIFF within that list. 
Furthermore, its clear to me that Mrs H was not solely reliant on the HLAMs 
communications when deciding to remain invested  because when she was notified in June 
2019 that the WIFF had been removed from the Wealth list, she didnt sell her holdings. The 
WIFF wasnt suspended at that point, only the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) was, 
so Mrs H couldve sold his holdings but chose not to. 
In fact, the WIFF wasnt suspended until October 2019 when the fund manager changed  
and it was reopened in February 2020. 
I understand the profound disappointment that Mrs H has experienced from the losses her 
investment has suffered, and I do understand why, with hindsight, she believes HLAM ought 
to have been more reticent to promote the WIFF the way it did. But HLAM didnt have the 
benefit of hindsight when it included the WIFF on its wealth lists  and in my view, it provided 
information to Mrs H that allowed her to make her own investment decisions, with the firm 
understanding that there were no guarantees, and that all investments carry some risk.
For all these reasons, Im not persuaded the losses Mrs H has suffered are attributable to 
something HLAM did or didnt do. Im satisfied Mrs Hs losses were instead caused by the 
performance of the investment which is something HLAM had no control over.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman