DRN-1534748
 
The complaint
Mr S complains Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a taxi insurance 
policy.  
What happened
Mr S arranged taxi insurance through Freeway. His policy renewed in March 2019. The 
renewal documents showed he held a taxi licence for Area A. In July 2019 he contacted it to 
ask if it could arrange cover for taxi work for Area B. He says at that point he was told he had 
to declare all the licences held. He said he had one for Area B. He was then charged an 
additional premium of about £350. 
Mr S feels the additional premium is unfair. He says, although he held the licence for Area B 
at renewal, he wasnt using it. So he shouldnt be charged extra for it. He says during the 
renewal, Freeway didnt ask him how many licences he held. He says if it had, he wouldnt 
have taken its policy. He says he would have found cheaper cover elsewhere. So he feels 
Freeway should reimburse him the extra hes had to pay for the cover.  
Freeway responded to a complaint from Mr S. It said the renewal documents it sent listed 
him as holding a badge for Area A only. It said the documents asked him to check the 
information on it was correct. It said if he had said he might be getting a badge for Area B it 
would have told him there would be an additional charge. It didnt agree to refund him the 
extra he paid. 
Our Investigator didnt think Freeway had done anything wrong. So he didnt recommend 
pay Mr S any compensation or do anything differently. Mr S didnt accept that. So the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not making Freeway 
pay Mr S any compensation or do anything differently.
Its the insurer that charged the extra premium. This complaint is against the broker, 
Freeway, not the insurer. That means I cant, in this complaint, consider Mr S point about 
the unfairness of being charged extra for holding a licence he wasnt making use of. I have 
though looked at the actions of Freeway, the broker. 
Mr S says he wasnt asked if he held any additional licences. I accept he wasnt asked that 
exact question. But I feel Freeway did enough for him to have reasonably understood he 
needed to declare the new licence he had recently received for Area B. 
 The renewal documentation was issued at the end of February 2019. The cover letter says 
the quotation is based on information Mr S provided the previous year. It said the quote is 
only valid if his circumstances havent changed. Further down it asks Mr S to check the 
information in the documentation accurately reflects his circumstances. 
A bit further under the title demands and needs the document says Area you are plated 
for: The only one listed is Area A. It seems Mr S already had the licence for Area B by then. 
But he didnt tell Freeway about it. The document didnt specifically say licence. But I think 
Mr S, as a taxi driver, would have understood thats what it meant. The statement didnt 
specify what areas he was working in  but instead what badges he held. So I think Freeway 
did enough to make him aware that it wanted to know what licences he held. 
Freeway has explained that Mr S had another opportunity to tell it about the new licence in a 
call. Ive listened to that call. It was before the policy renewed. Mr S was accepting the quote 
and renewal. He was asked if there had been any changes in the past 12 months. A few 
examples of circumstances were given  including to council information. 
Mr S was in the process of taking out taxi insurance. I think he would have been aware local 
councils or authorities issue taxi licences. So I think he should have realised from what was 
said that his recently awarded licence for Area B might be of relevance to the insurer and 
Freeway. Again, I think it did enough to make him aware he needed to declare the licence 
for Area B. 
Its unfortunate Mr S was charged extra for holding a licence for Area B. But I cant say that 
Freeway was at fault for that. So Im not making it pay him any compensation or do anything 
differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited pay 
Mr S any compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman