DRN-1619284
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold British Gas responsible for their actions.
In November 2018 Mrs P renewed a British Gas policy with cover for kitchen appliances 
including a fridge freezer. The policy terms provided the following:
A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost less to 
replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved supplier and make 
the following contribution based on their current retail selling price:
 100% if your appliance is less than three years old
 30% if your appliance is three years old or more
You may use our contribution towards an alternative model of your choice from our approved 
supplier. There is no cash alternative.
Mrs Ps fridge freezer was more than three years old. In June 2019 British Gas couldnt 
repair it. She dealt with the approved supplier. In the end she received vouchers to the value 
of £216.82 and used them to buy a new appliance from a well-known retailer.
Mrs P complained about the service from the approved supplier.
British Gas sent a final response dated 18 July 2019. It said it was sending a cheque for a 
further £20.00 for inconvenience. Mrs P brought her complaint to us in August 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that - 
whilst certain aspects of the process couldve been improved - the offer was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
British Gas is not upfront about the limited options for reimbursement.
The approved suppliers labour and delivery prices were expensive.
By rejecting the approved supplier, she had to take on a lot of research. A £20.00 
cheque was not enough for the work and stress.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has said her old appliance was split 70/30 between fridge and freezer. It was 
integrated in an existing cabinet with separate wooden doors for the fridge and for the 
freezer. So the replacement had to have the correct dimensions to fit. 
The policy said that British Gas would source a replacement through the approved supplier. 
Im satisfied that British Gas identified Mrs Ps appliance and a reasonable replacement for 
it. It calculated 30% of the cost of such a replacement.
But the policy didnt cover the following:
Disconnecting and disposing of your old appliance, or unpacking or installing new ones.
And Mrs P didnt accept the approved suppliers price of about £178.00 for installation of the 
new appliance and disposal of the old one. 
The policy didnt offer a cash alternative for the 30% contribution. So I find that British Gas 
was making a concession by offering £216.82 in vouchers for two selected retailers. As part 
of that, Mrs P took on the task of finding a replacement that met her requirements.
Only one of the retailers offered what Mrs P wanted. I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ps 
statement that she narrowly missed the limited period of its offer of half- price installation.
But I dont find British Gas responsible for not sending her the vouchers in less than 24 
hours.
Overall I dont find British Gas responsible for treating Mrs P unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22July2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman