DRN-3235059
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint relates to his mortgage arrangements with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Mr B is 
unhappy with the information he was given by HSBC about the ongoing mortgage payments 
he made between the new mortgage being agreed and the existing one being repaid. He 
also doesnt think he received all the money he was due after the sale of his old house and 
purchase of the new one completed.
What happened
In 2020 Mr B had an existing mortgage with HSBC. The mortgage had an interest rate 
product attached to it, which was due to end in 2022. He decided to move home and applied 
for a new mortgage with HSBC for the purchase and asked to port the existing interest rate 
product to the new mortgage. 
Mr Bs existing property was being sold for £110,000 and he owed slightly under £74,000 on 
the mortgage. Based on the equity in the property at that time, he needed a mortgage of 
£102,000 to complete his purchase. 
When the arrangements were discussed, Mr B asked whether the mortgage payments he 
made on the old mortgage between the new mortgage being agreed and completion of the 
sale/purchase would be refunded to him. He was told that they would effectively be returned 
to him in the form of equity in the property he was selling. 
It was subsequently confirmed, following Mr B asking the same question again, that the 
payments made to the old mortgage wouldnt be refunded as this would mean that he 
wouldnt have enough equity in the old property that would allow him to buy the new 
property. However, once the old mortgage had been paid off, any excess equity from the 
sale of that property would be his to use as he wanted. 
A couple of months later Mr B again repeated his question about having the mortgage 
payments made after the mortgage application was agreed refunded. Unfortunately, he was 
told he would get some money back.
This error was corrected less than two weeks later, and HSBC told Mr B that he wouldnt 
receive a refund, but he was right to continue to pay the existing mortgage. Mr B said that he 
was expecting roughly £1,400 back and HSBC confirmed that the amount of additional 
equity hed built up was around that amount and he would receive it via bank transfer. The 
call handler told Mr B that he wouldnt lose the money he was paying to the mortgage and 
guaranteed hed get it back. It was also confirmed that the mortgage wasnt ported to the 
new property, but rather only the interest rate product. Mr B complained, saying that hed 
been misled on two occasions. 
The sale and purchase completed in December 2020, five months after the application. 
During that time Mr B maintained the mortgage payments and the capital element of the 
payments reduced the mortgage balance. This meant that Mr B had more equity in the 
property and so he either needed to borrow less money to finance the new property 
purchase, or he would receive that amount after the arrangements had completed. 
After completion Mr B chased the money he was expecting HSBC to pay him and he was 
assured that it would be refunded to him. However, that wasnt correct as these funds were 
held by Mr Bs solicitor and the refund would come from the solicitor. 
HSBC responded to the complaint and accepted that there had been some mistakes in what 
it had told Mr B and that this may have caused him confusion. It offered Mr B £500 to 
compensate him for the incorrect information he was given and it having failed to provide the 
appropriate level of service. HSBC also provided Mr B with a further explanation about 
porting the interest rate and HSBC went over the numbers involved in the new mortgage.
Mr B wasnt happy with HSBCs response and asked this service to look into the matter. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
explained the numbers involved with the new and old mortgages and where the 
approximately £1,400 came from. He went on to confirm this money wasnt missing, rather 
his solicitors would have passed it on to him as part of the released equity when the 
mortgage completed. The investigator accepted that the explanations surrounding the issue 
had been varied and confusing, but he was satisfied that Mr B hadnt suffered a financial 
loss. He also thought the £500 HSBC had offered Mr B was enough to compensate him for 
any confusion caused and poor service on HSBCs part. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and said that he was still confused about 
where the surplus monies were. He provided a copy of the completion statements for the 
sale and purchase, that hed been sent by his solicitors. The statement for the sale detailed 
the deductions that were made from the sale price (such as the estate agents fees) and the 
amount of the deposit needed for the new purchase. It then set out the amount of the sale 
proceeds that was left over and was being paid to Mr B. 
Mr B explained that due to the money he was expecting, that had not been paid, hed been 
unable to complete some works to the property hed planned. He asked that at the least, the 
compensation payment was increased by a further £200 to go in some way to ease the pain 
and stress the issue had caused him. 
Our investigator considered the additional information and comments, but they didnt change 
his conclusions. Mr B remained unhappy and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the notes of the conversations that Mr B had with HSBC. Its clear that he 
didnt understand the process and what was required of him from the outset. I say this as he 
repeatedly asked if the payments he was making to his existing mortgage after the new one 
was agreed would be refunded  indicating that he didnt understand that mortgage would 
still exist and need to be paid as normal until the completely separate mortgage on the new 
property started. Going from that position, the varying answers given by HSBC would have 
simply confused things further. HSBC has accepted that it didnt handle matters well and 
offered compensation. I will consider whether the amount is adequate later in this decision. 
First, I think I need to explain to Mr B that when assessing redress we aim to place a 
consumer, as far as possible, in the financial position they would have been in had the 
mistake not happened. In this case I am satisfied that the mistakes HSBC made didnt 
actually change the financial position Mr B ended up in. Quite simply, he borrowed the amount he needed to complete the purchase of his new house and he received the residual 
amount of equity from the sale of his old house after fees and costs (such as legal costs and 
estate agent fees).
Mr B always had to make the monthly payments he did to the old mortgage until it was paid 
off in December 2020. That money went to pay the interest charged on the mortgage debt 
and to reduce the capital owed, just as it always had since the mortgage started. This 
resulted in the amount Mr B needed to repay the mortgage reducing by around £1,400. That 
money was never something that Mr B would receive back from HSBC, rather it meant that 
his solicitor when it received the money from the sale of the house, had to give less of that 
money to HSBC. 
The sale completion statement Mr B has provided from his solicitor set out what it received 
from the sale and what it had needed to pay from that money. This included the fees, costs 
and the amount he owed HSBC. It then set out the amount of the sale price that was left 
over and was being paid to Mr B. This included any equity that was created from the 
mortgage payments he made following the new mortgage application being accepted, i.e. it 
included the circa £1,400 that Mr B was expecting as a result of those additional payments 
being made. 
I am satisfied that Mr B didnt receive less money from the sale transaction than he was 
entitled to because of any error HSBC made. However, as I have said above, there were 
clearly issues with the information Mr B was given during the months the mortgage took to 
complete. £500 is not an insignificant amount of compensation for such administrative 
issues, and while I agree that it fairly reflects the impact of the poor service HSBC provided, I 
dont consider it should be increased. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
17 February 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman