DRN-3854623
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declining a claim 
under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to RSA include their agents who administer the policy.
In making her complaint, Mrs D was supported by a representative. References to Mrs D 
include her representative.
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs D took her dog to a vet as it was struggling to walk and had pain in its 
hind legs. The vet examined the dog and thought there was an issue with the dogs spine, 
recommending scans and saying surgery might be needed. A scan revealed the dog had a 
slipped disc, which was compressing the spinal cord. The dog underwent surgery and Mrs D 
subsequently claimed for the cost of treatment (two invoices, totalling £4,043.63). 
However, RSA said they wouldnt accept the claim, as review of the dogs clinical history 
indicated to them the dog showed signs [of the condition or associated condition] in their 
health or behaviour in April 2020 (before the policy was taken out in August 2020). In such 
circumstances the policy didnt provide cover.
Mrs D was unhappy about RSAs decline of her claim, as she didnt think the previous visit to 
the vet in April 2020 was related to the subsequent condition. Her vet said that at the 
previous visit there was no obvious evidence of spinal (disc) problems  so the two visits 
werent connected. RSA reconsidered the claim, referring the matter to their in-house vet. 
But they maintained their decline of the claim, saying there hadnt been any other cause for 
the lumbosacral pain recorded in the clinical notes of the April 2020 visit and the lumbosacral 
pain was a repeatable clinical sign both in April 2020 and January 2021. They also noted the 
scan results confirming generalised disc degeneration with severely affected discs in the 
lumbosacral area.
Mrs D complained to RSA, but they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they 
said the claim had been declined as it was a pre-existing condition, so excluded from cover 
under the policy. They referred to the clinical notes from the visits in April 2020 and January 
2021, particularly the references to lumbosacral pain. This indicated the dog was first 
showing signs of lumbosacral pain before the policy commenced, which had subsequently 
manifested itself in degeneration of the dogs discs (leading to the need for surgery in 
January 2021). So, RSA confirmed their decline of the claim.
Mrs D then complained to this service, saying there hadnt previously been a problem with 
her dog, as the issue was due to some thorns following the dog being groomed  there 
wasnt an issue with the dogs discs. This was the view of two vets  the one who carried out 
the surgery and the one who had bred her dog. Mrs D said shed been affected financially by 
having to pay for the cost of surgery. She wanted RSA to review the claim as theyd 
disregarded the statement of the vets whod examined her dog.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint, concluding RSA had applied the policy 
terms fairly and reasonably. He noted the policy terms (and schedule) stated RSA wouldnt 
cover claims for changes in a pets health or behaviour before the policy started (or any 
illness or injury that developed from those changes). The investigator thought the clinical 
notes from the visit in 2020 indicated a reaction to pinch of the lumbosacral area. And the 
claim from for the 2021 surgery indicated the dog was seen for the same condition 
previously. While Mrs D said the previous issue was due to thorns, the clinical notes didnt 
support this. So, the investigator concluded the 2021 claim resulted from a condition that was 
pre-existing (and so wouldnt be covered under the policy). 
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, she said the investigators view disregarded the opinion of the 
vet who examined her dog in April 2020, that the issue at that time wasnt related to the 
subsequent disc problem (and no x-rays were taken at the earlier visit) and the dog walked 
into the vet without problems. So, there was no hard evidence the two visits were connected. 
She also thought clinical notes needed to be backed up by recordings, as conversations 
could be misunderstood.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Mrs D. 
The key issue in Mrs Ds complaint is whether RSA acted fairly in declining her claim for 
treatment of her dog. RSAs view is that they correctly declined the claim, on the grounds the 
dogs clinical history indicated a pre-existing condition (lumbosacral pain that subsequently 
led to degeneration of the dogs discs and the need for surgery. Which would indicate a pre-
existing condition, so excluded from cover under the policy. Mrs Ds view is that the previous 
issues with the dog (in April 2020) werent related to the subsequent disc problems and need 
for surgery. Mrs D points to the view of her vet to support her view.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by RSA in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the vets opinion and the clinical history and notes of Mrs 
Ds dog. In their final response, RSA refer to the following statement in the policy schedule:
Looking at the policy terms and conditions, under the Your Cover part of the policy, it states: 
You accept that the policy wont insure: Health issues, concerns, illnesses, and 
injuries which you or your vet were aware of before you took out the policy, they are 
known as pre-existing conditions. Pre-existing conditions are, signs or symptoms of 
diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses, existing illnesses or injuries, existing 
physical abnormalities, existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities which 
lead to other health issues or injuries and illnesses or injuries which are medically 
linked to existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities. 
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, relating to the disc issues that required surgery. Or whether there were any 
clinical signs or symptoms. Looking at the clinical history, the notes from the visit in April 
2020 state:
painful lumbosacral area...Moving to the clinical notes from the subsequent visit in January 2021, they include the 
statements:
.[D] is in pain with hind legssame symptoms as previously seen for[D] 
struggling to walk since morningproprioception delayed both hind legspainful 
lumbosacral area  right side L2-L5
strongly advise referral for CT/MRI and surgery
explain serious issue with spine, young dog, will need MRi/CT scan, surgery
The notes from the animal hospital that performed the surgery include the following 
statement extract:
Neurological examination was suggestive of a lesion affected [the] spinal cord at the 
level of [the] midbackAn MRI was performedwhich confirmed the presence of a 
slipped discThis was compressing the spinal cord[It] had evidence of 
intervertebral disc degeneration of all discs included in the study (unhealthy discs, 
common in [breed of dog].
In their report to the vet, the animal hospital also refers to Given the clinical history and the 
signalment, the main differential diagnosis was an intervertebral disc extrusion and 
Generalised intervertebral disc degeneration was also noted.
Ive then considered the opinion from Mrs Ds vet, which states:
On the 3rd of April 2020 [D] presented to our practiceDuring physical examination 
[D] showed reaction to the pinch of the lumbosacral areaNeurological examination 
was unremarkable on the presentation, with no obvious delay in proprioception. [D] 
was walking fine and was ambulatory stable. There was no obvious evidence of 
spinal problems. [D] recovered after rest and medication.
While the vet says there was no obvious evidence of spinal problems, the reference to 
reaction to the pinch of the lumbosacral area indicates pain in the dog in that area. And 
reference to obvious [evidence of spinal problems] isnt definitive and doesnt rule out the 
presence of such issues. And the clinical notes for both the April 2020 and January 2021 
visits both record painful lumbosacral area. 
On the claim form (page 2) Ive noted that, in answer to the question Has this pet had this 
condition or clinical signs before, or any related condition of clinical signs before the box for 
Yes has been ticked (with the comment see referral).
Ive also considered Mrs Ds point that the issue in April 2020 was probably the result of 
thorns (from a grooming visit). However, theres no mention of this in the clinical notes  and 
given the vet would have examined the dog during the visit, Im not persuaded its likely they 
would have missed the presence of any thorns.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, that onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above, I think there is 
evidence (the lumbosacral pain) at both the April 2020 visit and the subsequent visit (and 
surgery) in January 2021. So, I think RSA have applied the exclusion fairly, given the 
evidence of clinical signs and symptoms present at both visits.
Ive also considered Mrs Ds point about clinical notes needing to be backed up by 
recordings, as conversations could be misunderstood. However, I dont agree. The clinical 
notes record the vets findings and conclusions, as well as any treatment required (or 
medication prescribed). Its for the vet to record what, in their professional opinion, needs to be recorded about an animals condition and their view of that condition, including diagnoses 
(as appropriate) and other relevant matters to provide a complete and accurate record. This 
doesnt mean that consultations should be recorded.
Taking all these points into account, Im persuaded RSA have shown enough to apply the 
exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded 
RSA acted fairly to apply the exclusion to decline Mrs Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman