DRN-2856068
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) have charged 
her interest and fees and have reported a missed payment on her credit file following a 
missed payment on her account.                                               
What happened
Miss C opened an Amex account online. A few days later, Miss C set up a direct debit 
instruction to clear in full the accrued monthly balance on her Amex account, also online.
However, when Amex attempted to take the first monthly payment via direct debit, the 
attempt was unsuccessful, and the payment remained outstanding. A few days later, Miss C 
amended the direct debit details on the account. But Miss C didnt manually make the 
outstanding payment that was due, and so the payment was missed.
When Miss C received the next statement for her Amex account, she noticed that the 
payment was still outstanding, and that interest and fees had been charged. Miss C wasnt 
happy about this, so she contacted Amex and cleared the balance on the account, and also 
made a complaint.
Amex looked at Miss Cs complaint, but they noted that the direct debit had failed because 
Miss C had inputted incorrect bank details and that they had made several attempts to 
contact Miss C once the direct debit had failed, seeking payment from Miss C, before the 
payment was eventually recorded as missed. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss C wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, and she felt that Amex should have had 
account verification systems in place which would have notified her immediately that she had 
inputted the incorrect bank details and so avoided all subsequent events. So, she referred 
her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Amex had provided Miss 
C with ample opportunity to review and confirm the direct debit details that shed inputted, 
and they also noted that Amex had made several attempts to contact Miss C about the 
missed payment before it was recorded as being missed. So, they also didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Miss C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss C for the detailed submissions that shes made to this service regarding 
this complaint. I hope that Miss C doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont respond in 
similar detail here. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider to be the key aspects of this 
complaint, in line with this services role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service. 
This means that if Miss C notes that I havent responded directly to a specific point that shes 
made, it shouldnt be taken by Miss C that I havent considered this point  I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all the submissions provided by both Miss C and Amex. Instead, it 
should be taken that I have considered that point, but that I dont feel it has a material impact 
on my decision such that I feel it necessary to address that point directly here.
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Miss C to have discovered that a 
payment had been missed on her account, especially given that shed set up the direct debit 
on her account specifically to ensure that the account balance was cleared in full every 
month.
When making a final decision in circumstances such as this - where the customer has 
inputted incorrect direct debit details - I pay particular attention to whether the business has 
provided a customer with fair and reasonable opportunity to realise that theyve inputted 
incorrect details and to make the appropriate amendments.
I think that Amex did that here. Ive reviewed the information provided by Amex which 
illustrates the customer journey, and Im satisfied that several opportunities were provided to 
Miss C at the time that she set up her direct debit to review and confirm the direct debit 
details that she was entering, including being asked to input the account number twice so as 
to mitigate the risk of a typo error by Miss C.
Im aware that Miss C feels that Amex should have had account verification software in place 
which would have confirmed immediately that Miss C had entered incorrect account details, 
and Miss C has referenced that it is considered best practice for firms to have such software 
in place. 
I can appreciate Miss Cs point here, to a degree, but at the time that Miss C opened her 
account and set up the direct debit there was no mandatory requirement for Amex to have 
such software in place.
If it were the case that I considered that the process that Amex had in place hadnt provided 
Miss C with a fair opportunity to review the direct debit details that she had entered, or that 
Amex hadnt sought to make Miss C aware that her direct debit details were incorrect, once 
it became known to them that the details were incorrect, then I might see this matter 
differently. 
But in this instance, Im satisfied that Amexs processes did fulfil the criteria stated above, 
and so I dont feel that it would be reasonable to censure Amex for not having non-
mandatory software in place, given the robustness of their existing systems and processes.
It also must be noted that Miss C did become aware that the direct debit had failed, and this 
is evidenced by the fact that Miss C amended the direct details on her account. Furthermore, 
Miss C amended these details in the period of time after the initial failed direct debit attempt 
but before the outstanding payment for that month became overdue. 
This meant that, had Miss C made the outstanding payment manually on her account at the 
time that she updated the direct debit details  which was at a time when its difficult not to 
conclude that Miss C must have been aware that the initial direct debit payment had failed  
then the outstanding payment wouldnt have subsequently been recorded as being missed, 
and the interest, charges, and adverse credit file reporting would never have taken place.Finally, it would also be expected that Amex would have attempted to contact Miss C to 
inform her that the payment was still outstanding and to give Miss C a further opportunity to 
make the payment before it was considered as being missed. 
Again, I think that Amex did that here. They made several phone calls to the number that 
Miss C had provided to them, and they also sent text messages to that same number  all 
without success. Im aware that Miss C feels that Amex should have tried to contact her via 
alternative means as well, especially given that she listed her communication preference for 
reminders and alerts as being by email, but given the relative urgency of the situation I dont 
feel that it was unreasonably for Amex to try to have contacted Miss C by more direct 
means.
All of which means that its difficult to conclude that Amex have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. The payment was missed because Miss C inputted incorrect details, and 
Im satisfied that Amex provided Miss C with fair opportunity to review the direct debit details 
that she had entered so as to be able to correct any errors at that stage. Im also satisfied 
that, following the initial failure of the direct debit, Amex made reasonable attempts to 
contact Miss C to advise her that the payment was in danger of being missed. And I also 
note that Miss C amended her direct debit details at a point before the payment was missed 
but didnt make a manual payment to clear the account at that time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss C was wanting here, but it follows that Im 
unable to agree that Amex have made any form of error here and it further follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Amex to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Miss C can understand, given everything Ive explained above, why I have made 
the final decision I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman