DRN-3699623
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains about the letters that are being issued by Lloyds Bank PLC 
about the late Mrs Ss mortgage. Mrs Ss executor says the letters are grammatically and 
factually wrong, and they are also deeply upsetting for someone recently bereaved.
What happened
The executor of the estate of the late Mrs S is her daughter, Mrs W. Mrs W said that her late
mother had a mortgage with Lloyds. And Mrs W told us the letters she had been receiving
from Lloyds about her late mothers estate were deeply upsetting. She said she regularly
received correspondence addressed to her, but written in the first person, so they referred to
Your Mortgage for example. She said letters which had apparently been sent by the banks
bereavement team were also wrong. That team sent quarterly updates, addressed to the
personal representative of Mrs S, but those letters then began Dear Mrs S.
Mrs W said that she had been affected emotionally by this correspondence, at a time when
she was trying to deal with the death of her mother. She wanted Lloyds to amend its letters
so that they were factually and grammatically correct. And she wanted Lloyds to improve its
processes and treatment of bereaved relatives.
Lloyds said it was sorry Mrs W had been upset by this. It felt it had made clear that Mrs W
herself had no liability to pay the mortgage, and said it does have a regulatory duty to keep
her up to date on the position of the mortgage. It would feed back within its organisation that
these letters could be upsetting. But it said any change to this was likely to take a very long
time, so it couldnt guarantee that Mrs W wouldnt receive similar letters in future.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she could see that
Lloyds Bank had acknowledged there will be no regular repayments being made to the
mortgage account and that the account will fall into arrears until it is repaid. It has been
sending arrears statements and arrears letters to keep Mrs W informed of the status of the
account. Our investigator said that this is a regulatory requirement and Lloyds must send
these letters as part of its duty as a responsible lender.
Our investigator understood that Mrs W was upset because the letters were written as if she
was the account holder, but Lloyds had issued these using an automated system and as the
late Mrs S was still the account holder, the letters are worded as if being sent to her. Our
investigator said she could understand why Mrs W would find this frustrating and upsetting,
but Lloyds isnt able to intervene and manually change these letters. Lloyds was also
sending other letters, which did reflect Mrs Ws status as executor, rather than the mortgage
holder.
Our investigator said Lloyds is reviewing its process on this, but if changes are agreed, thats
likely to take some time, so Mrs W may still continue to receive the automated letters worded
in the same way.
Our investigator said she wouldnt uphold the complaint, as she thought Lloyds was following
its regulatory requirements. She was sorry about the effect this correspondence was having
on Mrs W, and suggested she might like to ask a friend, relative or advisor to receive these
letters in her stead.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said the letters were unacceptable and extremely upsetting. They
were also inaccurate. And she said accounts of deceased customers are noted as such, so
they should be excluded from general mailings. She said such letters were being sent to
vulnerable customers during a pandemic, which would be causing further distress. She also
said that the quarterly letter that she had been told was written for bereaved customers is
addressed to the deceased Mrs S.
Mrs W wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I would like to start by saying how sorry I have been to hear about Mrs Ws loss, and 
about the additional distress that shes experienced when trying to resolve the estate of 
her late mother. This has clearly been a very difficult time for her, and shes explained 
that Lloyds letters are making things worse.
Mrs W would like Lloyds to improve the way it handles correspondence about all of its 
deceased customers, so that no one goes through what she has experienced. But our 
service cannot instruct Lloyds to make overarching changes like this. I can only look at 
the individual circumstances of this case.
Lloyds has said it has a duty to keep those responsible for a mortgage debt updated on 
the position of that debt. And, although Mrs W isnt personally liable for her late mothers 
mortgage, she is the executor of her late mothers estate, which means she does need 
to know the current position of the mortgage.
Lloyds has told us it provides this information to its customers through automated 
letters, which cannot easily be amended to reflect that they are being sent to the 
personal representative of someone who has died. So, although I understand that these 
letters are upsetting to Mrs W, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances, for me to require Lloyds to change this.
But Mrs W has pointed out that letters which are sent to her by Lloyds bereavement 
team, and which Lloyds has said are manually produced, are still wrong. These are titled 
Dear Mrs S when Lloyds is well aware that the executor of the late Mrs Ss account is 
Mrs W. So I asked Lloyds if this was simply an oversight on its part, and if it was able to 
change this.
Lloyds reply is that it isnt able to simply amend this. It has told our service that what it 
has previously described as manual letters does not mean completely free-format. 
Most of these letters are still produced via its IT system which automatically populates 
some of the fields. That one system covers many letter types across all of Lloyds 
customers, and will pull the information from the account holders name, which will 
always be Mrs S. So even the letters that Lloyds is sending to Mrs W from its 
bereavement team, will continue to say Dear Mrs S.
I can quite understand how this in particular would strike Mrs W as insensitive. And Im 
very sorry to have to tell Mrs W that our service isnt able to help with this.As Lloyds has already said it cannot change this for Mrs W, any decision from me 
requiring Lloyds to do so would not be likely to produce a change  and our service 
would not be able to enforce that decision for Mrs W.
And the powers of our service do not allow me to make an award to Mrs W, for distress 
and upset which has been caused to her personally, in a complaint which has been 
brought by the estate of Mrs S. Thats part of the legislation which founded our service, 
so I cannot change this for Mrs W.
I dont think our service should uphold this complaint. Thats not because I do not 
understand Mrs W has found these letters distressing, or because I dont agree that 
what Lloyds is doing, when its bereavement team sends out letters headed Dear Mrs S 
is deeply insensitive. Its only because the limits on the powers of our service mean that 
if Lloyds is unwilling or unable to make a change, then there is little our service can do 
to assist Mrs W. And there is also little we can do about the distress she has told us 
shes already been caused. For that reason, I do not think this complaint should be 
upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides have replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said it had nothing to add, other than to repeat that it had fed back details of Mrs Ws 
concerns within the business.
Mrs W replied to say that Lloyds had been inaccurate in referring to letters as manual. And 
she wanted to draw to our attention another complaint she had brought to our service. She 
said that was similar, but there she did receive a payment of compensation. 
The complaint that Mrs W has shown us was resolved at an earlier stage with our service. 
When an investigator looks at a case, they propose a resolution which they consider to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of that particular case. But they arent exercising 
legal powers to require a business to make a payment. Theyre seeking to reach a resolution 
which is agreed with the two sides. So when an investigator thinks its fair to ask a bank to 
pay compensation, they arent prevented from suggesting that, in circumstances where we 
cannot legally compel a business to make a payment. I think thats what happened in the 
case Mrs W has brought to our attention now. 
Mrs W might like to know that before I issued a provisional decision on her complaint, I also 
invited Lloyds to make changes to its salutation on the manual letters it issues, and also to 
make a payment on a voluntary basis in this case. It didnt take this opportunity. And, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, Im unfortunately not able to compel Lloyds to make a 
payment of compensation here. 
So, for those reasons, I havent been able to change my mind in this case. Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman