DRN-3638410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA Insurance) has 
declined a storm damage claim made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021, during bad weather, Mr and Mrs R awoke to find their garden wall had 
collapsed. They reported a claim to AA insurance, their home insurance provider.
AA Insurance appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. They concluded the wall had 
collapsed due to what they said was poor design and faulty workmanship, so Mr and Mrs Rs 
claim was declined by AA Insurance.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with this and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said there were storm 
conditions at the time and the damage was consistent with storm damage. She also said 
there wasnt an exclusion for poor workmanship or faulty design in the policy. 
As the investigator was satisfied the damage was consistent with a storm, and this was the 
main cause of damage, she said that AA Insurance should deal with Mr and Mrs Rs claim 
and reimburse the costs they incurred (minus the excess) having their wall rebuilt. She also 
said AA Insurance should add 8% simple interest to the settlement amount.
AA didnt agree. They acknowledged there wasnt an exclusion for poor workmanship or 
faulty design. But they said its likely the wall has been weakened and deteriorated over time 
due to vegetation. So, they said the claim wouldnt be covered.
The investigator didnt think AA Insurance had evidenced vegetation had weakened the wall, 
and her view of things remained the same, that AA Insurance should deal with the claim and 
reimburse the costs Mr and Mrs R incurred.
AA Insurance didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy provides cover for storm damage, along with a number of other 
insured events. AA Insurance declined Mr and Mrs Rs storm damage claim on the basis 
their wall had a faulty design and poor workmanship. They also said that the wall was 
suffering deterioration, and the bad weather highlighted this.
When we look at complaints about storm damage claims, we consider three 
questions. If any of the answers to the three questions is no then its likely a claim
wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions?
Mr and Mrs Rs policy covers storm damage. And the policy defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as: a) Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots 
(55mph) which are the equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale; b) torrential 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; c) snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 
24 hours; or d) hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
AA Insurance said the weather conditions in the area at the time didnt show storm 
conditions. However, weve checked the weather records for the time of loss, using the 
different tools we have available (a copy of the results has also been sent to AA Insurance). 
One reporting tool indicated windspeeds of 46mph with gusts up to 74mph. And a different 
reporting tool indicated winds of up to 60mph.
Both of these weather reporting tools use different data sources, and Im satisfied they both 
show there were storm conditions at the time of the wall being damaged. They also show 
storm conditions as defined in the policy.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Mr and Mrs R awoke to find their wall had come down and was laying, in pieces, across their 
garden. This type of damage is consistent with storm type damage.
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of damage?
The original surveyor that attended said the construction of the wall was poor and it was 
poorly designed and it was due to this that it came down. So, AA Insurance declined the 
claim on the basis of faulty design and workmanship.
Mr and Mrs R have argued that the wall has stood in place for a number of years without 
issue, and it was only due to this storm in particular that it came down. So, they disagree that 
it was poorly designed.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy. Whilst this does cover 
storm damage, there isnt an exclusion in the policy for faulty design or workmanship. So, it 
wouldnt be reasonable for AA to try to rely on an exclusion which isnt in Mr and Mrs Rs 
policy terms to decline the claim.
In response to our investigators assessment of things, AA Insurance Limited accepted there 
wasnt an exclusion for poor design or workmanship. But they also said the wall wouldve 
been weakened over time and gradually become less stable. To conclude this, AA is relying 
on some images which show there is vegetation present, and a generalisation that this can 
cause mortar to break down. However, there hasnt been any evidence provided in 
supporting that is what actually happened here in Mr and Mrs Rs case, or that this is why 
their wall came down during the storm weather.
Whilst the policy does contain an exclusion for damage caused gradually such as 
deterioration and wear and tear, I dont think AA Insurance has shown this applies here. The 
surveyor report focussed on what they said was poor workmanship and design, but they 
didnt say the wall was suffering from gradual wear, or deterioration, due to vegetation. So, 
whilst I note AA Insurances more general comments, Im not satisfied theyve shown the 
corresponding exclusion applies here to Mr and Mrs Rs claim.AA Insurance has also questioned the direction of wind on the weather reports against the 
direction the wall collapsed. However, I dont find that argument persuasive, as the actual 
wind direction at ground level could be different, based on the terrain, surrounding properties 
and other factors.
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied there were storm conditions at the time, 
the damage is consistent with storm damage, and the storm was the dominant cause of the 
damage to Mr and Mrs Rs wall.
Due to their property being exposed with a wall down, Mr and Mrs R have had to pay to have 
it rebuilt. I dont think theyve acted unreasonably by doing so after AA Insurance declined 
their claim.
With this in mind, and as Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R have a valid storm damage claim under 
their policy, AA Insurance need to reimburse the cost theyve incurred in having their wall 
rebuilt (subject to the applicable policy excess). AA Insurance should also add 8% simple 
interest from the date Mr and Mrs R paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Reimburse the costs Mr and Mrs R incurred in having their wall rebuilt (subject to the 
applicable policy excess)
Add 8% simple interest* from the date Mr and Mrs R paid the invoice to date of 
settlement
*If AA Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman