DRN-2036452
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H booked a holiday during October 2019 and they were due to travel in late 
December 2019. They took out an annual travel insurance policy in November 2019. 
Unfortunately, after Mr and Mrs H had checked-in for their flight, they learned that Mr Hs 
fathers health had deteriorated. So they returned home to be with him and didnt travel as 
planned. Sadly Mr Hs father passed away a short while later. They made a cancellation 
claim for the costs of their trip.
Admiral turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Mr Hs father had been ill for a few years and Mr 
and Mrs H acknowledged theyd known his illness wasnt curable. The policy specifically 
excluded claims which were down to a pre-existing medical condition of a close relative, or 
someone on whom the trip depended. Mr Hs fathers death was linked to his pre-existing 
condition. So Admiral said the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Admirals decision. They said the policy didnt define what 
it meant by someone upon whom the trip depended. And they said that Mr Hs father hadnt 
paid for the trip, they werent staying with him and he wasnt involved in it. So they didnt 
think Admiral could reasonably say the trip depended on him in any way. 
They also added that they hadnt been asked about Mr Hs fathers health when they took 
out the policy. They felt if it was important to Admiral, it shouldve asked questions about the 
health of non-travelling relatives. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged 
that the policy didnt define what Admiral meant by depend upon. But she felt that given Mr 
and Mrs H had cancelled their plans when they learned about the deterioration in Mr Hs 
fathers health; it was fair to say the trip had depended upon him. And she felt that even if 
the policy had clearly explained what depend upon meant, Mr and Mrs H wouldve still 
taken out the policy. So she felt it was fair for Admiral to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They felt that if the policy didnt cover anyone known to the 
policyholder who had a long-term medical condition, then it should be set out in the policy 
terms. They also queried why if the policy wording wasnt clear enough, the investigator 
hadnt required Admiral to correct it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Admiral to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Ill explain 
why.
First, Im sorry to read about the sad circumstances that led to Mr and Mrs H needing to 
make their claim. Im sorry to hear about their loss and Id like to offer them my sincere 
condolences.
The relevant regulators rules require insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought about whether Admiral considered 
the claim fairly in line with its policy terms.
Ive first considered what Mr and Mrs Hs policy says. The medical declaration section 
includes the following term:
We will not any claim related to a pre-existing medical condition of other people your trip 
depends upon, such as a close relative, travel companion, close business associate or 
person you have arranged to stay with, which they had at the start or renewal of your policy 
or when you booked a trip (whichever is later).
The policy defines what Admiral means by a pre-existing medical condition. This is any 
disease, illness or injury that you or any insured person (or any person your trip depends on) 
has, when arranging or renewing your policy, or when you book a trip (whichever is later).
Mr and Mrs H have told us that Mr H had been suffering from myeloma for around five years 
when they were due to travel. And that theyd known his condition couldnt be cured. Hed 
also suffered from associated conditions. So I think it was reasonable for Admiral to 
conclude that Mr Hs fathers illness was a pre-existing medical condition.
The policy doesnt define whats meant by depends upon. Where a policy term isnt defined, 
I consider the ordinary and natural meaning of that word or term. In this case, I think a 
person a trip depends upon simply means a person whose ill-health would be likely to 
change or affect a policyholders decision whether or not to travel. Admirals listed non-
travelling persons it considers might be likely to fall within such a category, such as close 
relatives. I think the terms clearly set out and isnt intended to apply to non-travelling 
persons whose health wouldnt affect a policyholders decision-making about their trip.
I understand Mr Hs father didnt pay for the trip and he wasnt involved in Mr and Mrs Hs 
travel plans. But I think its fair to find that their planned trip was dependent on his condition 
remaining stable. Thats because when Mr and Mrs H learned about the deterioration of Mr 
Hs fathers condition, they understandably changed their plans and decided not to travel. 
Mr and Mrs H think Admiral shouldve done more to explain what the policy wording here 
meant. And that it shouldve asked them questions about the health of non-travelling 
relatives if this information was important. But most, if not all, travel insurance policies 
exclude the pre-existing medical conditions of non-travelling relatives in a similar way. 
Admiral clearly set out this exclusion clause in its policy wording and the Insurance Product 
Information Document. Because the existing conditions of people who arent insured by the 
policy simply arent covered, theres no requirement for Admiral to ask questions about their 
health.
Even if Admiral had defined what it means by a person a trip depends upon, I think its likely 
Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. Thats because theyve told us that when 
theyd booked the trip, Mr Hs fathers deterioration couldnt have been foreseen. And his 
death wasnt thought to be imminent. So based on this, it doesnt seem they thought they 
were likely to need to make a cancellation claim due to Mr Hs father pre-existing condition. 
And because, as Ive explained, this is a standard exclusion in travel insurance policies, I dont think its likely Mr and Mrs H wouldve been able to find an alternative policy that did 
cover their situation.
Overall, I think it was fair for Admiral to rely on the exclusion clause to turn down Mr and Mrs 
Hs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman