DRN-3920656
The complaint
Mr W complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough to protect him 
when he fell victim to an investment scam. He would like NatWest to pay him back the 
money he lost. 
What happened
Mr W came across an advert for an investment firm (which Ill refer to as S) on a social 
media platform in September 2020. It was advertised that he could make £250 a day from 
trading. Mr W signed up with S, which included providing ID and fulfilling some Know Your 
Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) checks, which he found reassuring. He 
made an initial investment of just over £200 by card payment. In the following two weeks he 
made two further debit card payments of £2,020 and £1,717 which were sent to a legitimate 
crypto exchange. 
Mr W realised hed been scammed when he tried to withdraw his profits but was unable to 
do so. The phone numbers hed previously used to contact S had also been blocked.
 
In February 2021, Mr W contacted NatWest for help in recovering his loss. NatWest 
explained at the time that Mr W had no chargeback rights in respect of those payments, and 
so it could not recover his loss.
 
In August 2022, Mr W complained to NatWest, via a professional representative (who Ill 
refer to as C), that it had failed to flag the unusual payments from his account and warn him 
about potential scams. And so, NatWest failed to prevent his loss. 
NatWest didnt agree it ought to have prevented Mr Ws loss. It explained the payments were 
not stopped at the time as they did not meet known fraud trends at the time. It had also 
previously explained why Mr W had no chargeback rights in relation to the payments. 
 
Mr W was unhappy with NatWests response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman with support from C. Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained 
that while his investigation had highlighted that Mr W had spoken to NatWest when he 
attempted to make the second payment, there was no evidence of what was discussed. So, 
he was unable to assess whether the intervention was proportionate to the identified risk. 
But he explained that even if the intervention hadnt gone far enough, he needed to assess 
whether appropriate intervention would likely have prevented the loss. He wasnt persuaded 
it would have. He noted there were no active warnings about S and that Mr W had invested 
before and had noted the pattern of this investment matched what hed seen before. In the 
circumstances he wasnt persuaded that appropriate intervention would have stopped Mr W 
from making the payments, so NatWest could not be held responsible for the loss. 
C disagreed on Mr Ws behalf and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said that Mr Ws 
previous investment experience was in stocks and shares, rather than crypto. It also argued 
that NatWest ought to have noticed the change in Mr Ws spending habits, and it should also 
have detected the use of remote access software and intervened. Our Investigator disagreed 
that NatWest ought to have identified that remote access software was being used, as the 
payments were made by card and therefore not via online banking. 
As there has been no agreement, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will be extremely disappointing to Mr W. I dont underestimate the 
financial and emotional damage falling victim to this scam has had on him. But for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
 
Im sorry to hear Mr W was the victim of a sophisticated scam. I can appreciate why he 
wants to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only direct NatWest to refund 
his losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them. 
It is accepted that Mr W authorised each of the card payments from his NatWest account. 
So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr W is presumed liable for 
his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received, NatWests obligation is to follow the 
instructions Mr W provides. 
There are circumstances where it might be appropriate for NatWest to take additional steps 
or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its customers from 
the risk of financial harm from fraud. But NatWest would only fairly and reasonably need to 
intervene and ask more questions about the payment if an instruction was sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. Ultimately, there is a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments. 
Like our Investigator, given its relatively low value, I dont think NatWest needed to intervene 
before processing the first payment as there was no reason to suspect, on the basis of that 
payment alone or anything else NatWest knew at the time, that Mr W was at risk of financial 
harm from fraud. 
There is evidence that NatWest had some contact with Mr W before the second payment 
was processed. We have been provided with part of a phone recording in which Mr W 
explains his account has been blocked following an attempt to make a £2,000 payment  
given the date of this call Ive assumed it relates to the £2,020 payment. Unfortunately, 
NatWest has been unable to recover the second half of the call where the discussion with 
the fraud team took place. We asked Mr W for his recollections of this phone call but to date 
weve received no answer to our enquiries. I can only assume that Mr W is either unwilling or 
unable to share his recollections of this conversation. 
In the circumstances its unclear what prompted NatWest to contact Mr W. Given what 
NatWest knew about the payment, I would not necessarily have expected the final two 
payments to have triggered its systems due to the activity appearing unusual or suspicious. I 
have considered whether NatWest may have wanted to carry our further checks to confirm it 
was Mr W who authorised the payment, or it may have been triggered for a scam check. In 
either event, without any clear evidence of what was discussed I cant safely conclude the 
intervention was proportionate to the risk identified. But I must also consider whether NatWests potential failure to provide an appropriate warning resulted in Mr Ws loss, and Im 
not persuaded it did. 
While I accept there were features of the proposed investment with S that may have given 
NatWest cause for concern that it was a scam  in particular, the promotion through social 
media and the fact that there was a third party involved  there was no specific evidence that 
confirmed that it was indeed a scam at the time  for example warnings from the FCA or 
other regulatory bodies. 
I have also considered Cs suggestion that NatWest ought to have detected the use of 
remote access software and therefore done more to stop the payment, but I disagree. I have 
seen no evidence to demonstrate that NatWest was able to detect the use of remote access 
software in 2020, nor was it under a specific obligation to do so. As our Investigator also 
explained, given that the payments were made by card there was also less opportunity for 
NatWest to detect the use of remote access software as the payment wouldnt have been 
made from Mr Ws online banking. I also wouldnt have expected NatWest to have 
necessarily asked Mr W whether remote access software had been downloaded when it did 
speak with him. 
I must therefore weigh up whether reasonable intervention from NatWest, would have 
resonated with Mr W more so than his own research and experience of what was going on. 
And Im not persuaded it would have. 
Mr W has explained that at the time of making the payments he had researched S and had 
only found positive 5 star reviews online. He was also reassured by the way S was 
presented online - he noted the website looked professional, with lots of information about 
the company and trading, including graphs and trends. The person he spoke with also 
sounded professional and knowledgeable, and had carried out KYC and AML checks, which 
again appeared plausible and legitimate. He was also aware of background noise when 
speaking with the scammer that sounded like a normal office environment. 
Mr W has also explained that he saw immediate profits following his first payment, which 
were reflected on his investment platform balance, which would no doubt have reassured 
him that the investment was legitimate and achieving what hed been promised. 
When NatWest intervened, Id have expected it to use the opportunity to understand the 
nature of the payment Mr W was attempting to make. Once it understood that Mr W was 
attempting to make a crypto investment, I would have expected it to warn him about the 
hallmarks of a crypto investment scam and encourage him to carry out additional due 
diligence. I would not have expected it to stop the payment as there wouldnt have been 
sufficient reason to think Mr W was at significant risk of financial harm from fraud. So, it 
would have been up to Mr W whether to continue with the payment or not. 
Having given it careful consideration, and in the knowledge that I dont have the full facts of 
what was discussed with NatWest, Im not persuaded that intervention from NatWest would 
have stopped Mr W from making future payments. I think when balanced against all the 
information he had gathered himself, as well as the lack warnings or adverse information 
about the broker at the time, Mr W would have felt reassured that the investment was 
legitimate, as any further research wouldve been unlikely to yield any results that would 
have led him to believe he was falling victim to a scam. 
So, whether NatWest did enough when it intervened on the second payment or not, Im not 
persuaded it would have prevented Mr Ws loss. As such, I cant reasonably hold it 
responsible for his loss. Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, NatWest could reasonably have done 
anything to recover Mr Ws losses, but I dont think it could. The only possible option for 
recovery here, given the payments were made by debit card, would have been via 
chargeback claims. But given these payments went towards purchasing crypto from 
legitimate firms, I dont think chargeback claims would have been successful as Mr W 
received the service he paid for. Mr W also first notified NatWest of his loss in 
February 2021, so any potential chargeback claims would also have been out of time. As 
such, I think it was reasonable in the circumstances that NatWest didnt raise chargeback 
claims here. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr W and the loss hes suffered. But it would only be fair 
for me to direct NatWest to refund his loss if I thought it was responsible  and Im not 
persuaded that this was the case. For the above reasons, I think NatWest has acted fairly 
and so Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman