DRN-3638702
The complaint
Mr M complains that HiFX Europe Limited has refused to delete his personal data from its 
systems, and he says it has also breached other parts of data protection legislation.
What happened
Mr M said that hed used HiFXs service for a few years, but had no further need of them, so 
hed asked it to remove all the data it holds about him. But it said no. Mr M also said HiFX 
had refused to action his subject access request. It started sending him marketing emails. 
Mr M asked HiFX to pay him £1,500 for what he considers to be breaches of data protection 
legislation. 
HiFX said it has a legal obligation to maintain a record of the transactions Mr M carried out 
with it. So it wasnt able to delete his personal data. 
HiFX said it had asked Mr M to prove his identity before it would action his subject access 
request, and send him the personal data it holds about him. It said it hadnt made this same 
request for him to identify himself when Mr M asked it to delete all his personal data, 
because it wasnt able to do what he asked then. 
HiFX said it would ensure that Mr M will not receive unsolicited emails in future. 
Mr M then asked our service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said HiFX was complying 
with a legal obligation when it refused to delete Mr Ms data. And it was reasonable for HiFX 
to ask Mr M to provide proof of identity before it complied with his subject access request. 
Our investigator said HiFX had agreed not to send Mr M any more unsolicited emails.
Mr M replied to say he wasnt happy. He repeated that HiFX refused to remove his data, was 
sending him unsolicited emails and failed to action a subject access request. He said he 
didnt need to do anything to support his subject access request, HiFX should just comply. 
Mr M said these were all breaches of data protection legislation. And he wanted to add a 
fourth breach, that hed asked HiFX why it started to send him unsolicited emails over a 
month ago. It hadnt replied at all. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Our service isnt the lead body on data protection law. Thats the role of the Information 
Commissioners Office. So I dont think its appropriate for me to seek to set out here any 
definitive view on whether data protection law has been breached. Rather, my duty is to 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I note that Mr M hasnt asked HiFX to delete any data it could safely remove, he asked it to 
delete all the data it held about him. And I think its reasonable for HiFX to say it needs to 
retain data on Mr M, in order to comply with the regulations which govern it.
I understand that Mr M is reluctant to provide HiFX with proof of his identity, when he feels it 
isnt following data protection law. But I think its reasonable for HiFX to ask Mr M to prove 
he is who he says he is, before it sends personal data to him. 
Mr M said HiFX has started to send him unsolicited emails. HiFX has said it will stop. I 
understand a change like this sometimes takes a little time to take effect, but Ive not seen 
anything to make me think that HiFX isnt implementing this change, to make sure 
unsolicited emails to Mr M will stop. 
Finally, Mr M said HiFX hadnt responded to his further email. Its not unusual for a business 
to prefer that communications come through our service once a complaint has been brought 
to us. It helps to avoid confusion when were dealing with a complaint. So if that is what has 
happened here, that wouldnt be unreasonable. 
Mr M hasnt set out that hes been caused any distress or inconvenience by what HiFX has 
done. So I dont think HiFX has to do more here to put things right than it has done already. I 
know Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman