DRN-4002729
The complaint
Mr K and Ms L complain about Lloyds Bank PLC reducing their overdraft facility when they 
were vulnerable due to the Covid-19 crisis.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 17 February 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to partially uphold it, so there will be a different 
outcome to what our investigator proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 17 March 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr K and Ms L complain about Lloyds Bank PLC reducing their overdraft facility when they 
were vulnerable due to the Covid-19 crisis.
What happened
In 2020, Mr K and Ms L had an overdraft facility of £990 on their joint bank account with
Lloyds. This facility had increased importance due to Covid-19 which had an impact on Ms
Ls employment. However, in October 2020 Mr K and Ms L became concerned when Lloyds
informed them that following a review their overdraft facility was to be reduced to £260.
Also, in 2020, Mr K and Ms L made an application for a £500 short-term Covid-19 interest-
free overdraft arrangement which after some confusion was agreed.
When Mr K contacted Lloyds about the reduction in the overdraft facility, he says he was 
informed he needed to reapply for the £990 and he did so but this was rejected.
Lloyds say they offered to refer him to their Personal Lending Decisions (PLD) team, but Mr 
K declined. Mr K says this is because it could have affected his credit score and there wasnt 
a guarantee it would be accepted.
Mr K complained to Lloyds. Regarding the £500 short-term Covid-19 interest-free overdraft 
arrangement which he thought was affected, Lloyds confirmed this wasnt the case and, as a 
way of saying sorry for any confusion caused, offered Mr K and Ms L £30 compensation.
However, they said the reduction in the overdraft facility was a responsible lending business 
decision and reinstatement would only be possible if Mr K spoke to their PLD team.
Mr K and Ms L complained to our service. Our investigator was able to see that Lloyds 
subsequently decided not to change the overdraft limit, so she partially upheld Mr K and Ms 
Ls complaint asking Lloyds to pay an additional £50 compensation.
As Mr K remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I cant see that Lloyds didnt follow the Financial Conduct Authority Covid-19
guidance to make fair decisions on a case-by-case basis. This is because, despite some
confusion for which Lloyds offered some compensation, they did agree a Covid-19 interest-
free overdraft arrangement. Also, when they informed Mr K and Ms L that they could no
longer have the £990 overdraft facility they suggested Mr K and Ms L speak to their PLD
team. In addition, although I think there was a communication issue, they subsequently
concluded that the £990 overdraft facility shouldnt be reduced.
Whilst I appreciate the timing of Lloyds decision to review Mr K and Ms Ls overdraft caused 
anxiety, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds to undertake such a review. 
This is because Lloyds are entitled to make business decisions about how much they lend to
customers. Also, Lloyds are required to be a responsible lender and their terms and 
conditions state they can regularly review and reduce limits.
I was though surprised not to see any communications from Lloyds about their review which
reinstated Mr Ks and Ms Ls £990 overdraft limit. I think Lloyds shouldve spoken to Mr K
and Ms L and / or sent a communication especially as Mr K had his application rejected and
made a formal complaint about this matter.
I appreciate that Lloyds statements did show the overdraft limit and Mr K and Ms L couldve
queried this. But considering events and the finality of Lloyds complaint correspondence I
can understand why this wasnt realised.
From reviewing submissions Im persuaded that Mr K and Ms L were feeling vulnerable and
this lack of communication caused them to worry that their overdraft, which they saw as a
safety net, was being reduced just at a time when they believed it to be critical. So, even
though Lloyds subsequently decided not to change the limit and had closed the complaint, I
think they shouldve clearly communicated this to Mr K and Ms L, as had they done so this
wouldve alleviated Mr Ks and Ms Ls distress.
However, whilst I think compensation is appropriate here, from a review of the file Im not
persuaded that Lloyds lack of communication caused financial hardship. Also, Im unable to
consider Lloyds complaint handling in my decision as its not a regulated activity.
Although Mr K says he had financial difficulties and was concerned about his credit report,
he declined to speak with both Lloyds Personal Lending Decisions team which may have
resolved the issue and worry at an earlier stage. Also, Mr K declined to speak to Lloyds
support unit for customers with financial difficulties. In addition, there is information that on
Ms Ls other Lloyds account she didnt use her arranged overdraft limit.
Furthermore, Mr Ks and Ms Ls overdraft usage record shows that prior to Lloyds decision to
reduce the overdraft limit they werent fully utilising their overdraft facility. And when they did
receive the temporary interest free limit and their utilisation increased, it appears likely that
this contributed to Lloyds decision to increase the amount back to £990.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr K and Ms L will be disappointed, having considered all the above,
including the overdraft limit showing on the statement, Im partially upholding this complaint.
And I require Lloyds to pay Mr K and Ms L £100 compensation which excludes the £30
Lloyds offered for the confusion over the short-term Covid-19 interest-free overdraft.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this
complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr K and Ms L £100 compensation.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 17 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
Both parties responded prior to the deadline.
Lloyds agreed to pay the compensation amount detailed in the provisional decision.
Mr K doesnt think the compensation is sufficient for the distress, time and impact and his 
response contained the following:
Additional information on Mr K and Ms Ls anxiety and vulnerability
A belief that:
oLloyds didnt abide by the FCA guidance 
oLloyds failed to recognise their financial hardship
oLloyds hadnt conducted proper due diligence when reducing the overdraft in 
the midst of a global pandemic
oA PLD referral wouldnt maintain the overdraft and could have an adverse 
impact
Mr K and Ms L made it clear that there was a plan to use the overdraft, so if there 
was a way for the overdraft to be maintained without the need for credit checks why 
wasnt this option given in the first place
Poor customer service hasnt been considered
In comparison to another case the compensation award is low and out of kilter with 
guidance
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by thanking Mr K and Ms L and Lloyds for their responses to my provisional decision. 
The information provided was very helpful and Ive carefully considered what Mr K and Ms L 
said.
Regarding Mr K and Ms Ls belief that Lloyds didnt follow FCA guidance and recognise their 
vulnerability, I still cant see that this is the case here. This is because, Lloyds did agree a 
Covid-19 interest-free overdraft arrangement and they suggested Mr K and Ms L speak to 
their PLD and support teams. Also, they subsequently concluded that the £990 overdraft 
facility shouldnt be reduced.
Although Mr K has explained why he declined to speak to Lloyds PLD team, as Mr K and Ms 
L say they were in financial hardship I wouldve expected them to speak to both this team 
and Lloyds support unit for customers with financial difficulties. Also, for Ms L to use her 
arranged overdraft limit.
In addition, Mr K and Ms Ls overdraft usage record shows that prior to Lloyds decision to 
reduce the overdraft limit, they werent fully utilising their overdraft facility. And although there was a pandemic, Im satisfied that Lloyds decision to review and reduce the overdraft 
limit was fair, reasonable and that they acted within the terms and conditions of the account.  
For the reasons stated in my above provisional decision, I think Lloyds communication and 
customer service shouldve been better. So, when fully considering this in the circumstances 
of this particular case Im still partially upholding this complaint and think £100 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is to partially uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
Mr K and Ms L £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman