DRN-2316670
The complaint
Mr C complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont compensate him for problems 
he had with hotel accommodation. He relies on the rights he believes he has under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
 
What happened
Mr C booked a junior suite with a bath at a hotel abroad and paid for it with his Halifax credit 
card. At the end of his stay Mr C said he discovered the room category he had paid for was 
a junior suite with hot tub but the room he had been given was a smaller, deluxe room with a 
hot tub, but no bath. He said he didnt mention it to staff at the time. 
Mr C complained to the hotel on his arrival home, but it wouldnt refund the £700 he 
requested as the difference in price between the rooms, so he took his complaint to Halifax. 
Halifax did not uphold the complaint. It said Mr C hadnt given the merchant the opportunity 
to rectify the issue. It also said there was no evidence to prove that Mr C was in a deluxe 
room instead of a junior suite, the screen shot Mr C provided which stated Bathroom with 
Bath Tub does not show this was the junior suite. Mr C didnt agree so he brought his 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld. She said she hadnt seen 
any evidence to show that the booked room should have come with a bath, or that it didnt 
meet the square footage advertised for a junior suite. She also said she had seen no 
evidence of the hotel listing a photograph of the room Mr C had as a deluxe room on its 
website. She concluded there was no breach of contract. 
She also could not find any evidence that the hotel had given Mr C any untrue information 
prior to him booking, which would have been a deciding feature of Mr C booking a junior 
suite. 
Mr C was not satisfied with this view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
He said: 
oThere was no bathtub which was one of the main reasons he booked the 
room.
oThe square footage of our room was smaller than he expected. He said on 
the hotel website it says deluxe rooms are 27m2 and junior suites are 34 m2.
oThe floor plan for the deluxe room on the website is the same he had while 
the junior suite is completely different.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but having done I wont be asking Halifax 
to do anything further. 
Mr C first complained to the hotel but was unsuccessful. So he brought the complaint to 
Halifax. Halifax did not agree that Mr C should be refunded. It said Mr C had stayed at the 
hotel for the full duration, using its services and did not allow the merchant, in this case the 
hotel, to resolve any issue by letting them know about it. If he had then Halifax said it may 
have been able to raise a dispute/chargeback. 
Generally, the card issuer, in this case Halifax, as a requirement of the chargeback card 
scheme rules would expect the cardholder, in this case Mr C, to have tried to sort things out 
with the merchant directly. Mr C said he didnt realise there was an error until the end of his 
stay, and he didnt want to make a scene in front of his wife. He also said the hotel was full 
so it wouldnt have been able to give them a different room anyway. While I accept that the 
hotel may have been full, Im satisfied that Mr C hasnt allowed the hotel to address the 
problem in any way at the time. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax not to have 
raised a chargeback on the basis it likely would not have succeeded because of this. 
Halifax also believed there was no breach of contract or misrepresentation under section 75. 
It said there was no proof Mr C did not stay in the junior suite. To be able to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint about Halifax, I must be satisfied theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the hotel company, and that Halifaxs response to Mr Cs claim under 
section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. But Im not determining the outcome of Mr Cs claim 
under section 75, as that is for a court to decide.
In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a consumer an 
equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Mr C has provided a number of screen shots of the hotel rooms from its website, as well as a 
photo of the room he was given. I have also seen photos and description of the rooms as 
listed on the website currently. The junior suite is described as bigger than the deluxe. And I 
can see that as the rooms are currently described there is a difference in the space around 
the beds between the junior suite and the deluxe. Im persuaded that the room Mr C had, as 
shown in his photo, is a junior suite as currently shown on the website.
 
Mr C has sent screenshots from his phone of the junior suite at the time he stayed there. 
The image is made up of 13 small photos. He says the small photo on the bottom right is not 
his room as the bed is on the opposite side. I agree with the investigator and am persuaded 
that the photo is likely the room he was given but displayed in the photo as a mirror image, 
taken with the door open. I say this because all the features are exactly the same and, 
crucially, there appears to be much more space around the bed than as shown in the deluxe 
rooms. I recognise there are a few different styles of junior suites, but Im satisfied the junior 
suite photos online do match Mr Cs photo of the room he stayed in.
 
Mr C has said the picture used to describe the junior suite now was used to describe the 
deluxe room at the time of his holiday. Im not disputing Mr C when he says this. I dont have 
evidence that the photo of his room was listed as a deluxe room, so it is possible this was 
the case. But its also possible this photo was used incorrectly to describe both the deluxe 
and the junior suite as Mr C himself told our investigator.
Where evidence is missing or inconclusive, I must make a decision based on the balance of 
probabilities, that is, what I believe is most likely to be the case. I believe Mr C was likely 
given a junior suite and comparing it to photos of the deluxe rooms Im persuaded it was the 
much larger room. 
Mr C also said the previous website said junior suites all came with a bath, and his room did 
not have one, and that the recent description of junior suite now says bath tub or shower. Mr 
C provided a screen shot of the junior suite description he said was taken at the time of his holiday which says, Bathroom with Bath Tub. Mr C says this is misrepresentation. There is 
no reference to junior suite on this particular screen shot so its not clear to me whether it is 
or isnt a junior suite, though Im not disputing Mr C when he says it is.
For there to be a misrepresentation its not enough that the hotels statement about the bath 
wasnt true. It must also be the case that saying the room had a bath induced Mr C into 
entering into the contract. 
If I accept that Mr C is correct, and the junior suite was previously described as having a 
bath Im still not sufficiently persuaded that the presence of a bath in the room induced him 
into taking the room. Mr C hasnt provided any evidence that this did so. It is also possible 
that other features in or about the room were equally or more important than a bath. I also 
believe that had the bath been that important to Mr C he would have noticed at the beginning 
or earlier in his stay that no bath was present. Mr C has said he noticed only as he was 
leaving the room. 
I understand this will disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with his claim and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
We are an informal resolution service so if Mr C chooses not to accept my decision, he is of 
course free to pursue his complaint through the courts, though this will come with additional 
cost and risk. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman