DRN-2205409
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly rejected his claim for a 
refund. He also complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax handled his 
complaint.
What happened
Mr M had a debit card with Halifax. He used the card to pay for car rental. He says he paid 
for the rental when he booked the car but was charged for extras when he returned the car. 
The extra charges were debited to his account in September 2019. He says he doesnt know 
what the extras were for and the car rental company hasnt responded to his requests for 
information.
He contacted Halifax in November 2019 about the issue and asked it to provide him with a 
refund for the extra charges thatd been debited to his account. He says Halifax sent him 
emails requesting further information, but these were posted to his junk email folder. He 
says the emails werent branded. And, he says he didnt see the requests until 3 January 
2020. 
He responded to the requests for further information, but Halifax told him that because it 
hadnt received this response before 4 January 2020, it was too late to progress his request 
for a refund. He complained to Halifax.
Halifax investigated his complaint. It said it had started the chargeback process when Mr M 
contacted it in November 2019. It said it had requested additional information on 4 
December 2019 and again on 3 January 2020. Halifax said it had received Mr Ms response 
on 9 January 2020. It said that this was more than 120 days after the date of the transaction. 
So, under the chargeback rules the refund request couldnt be progressed.
Mr M didnt agree. He also raised concerns about how Halifax had handled his complaint. He 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said that chargeback was provided by the 
card scheme, in this case Mastercard. It wasnt an automatic right and wasnt guaranteed. 
She said shed listened to the call recording when Mr M had contacted Halifax. She said hed 
been made aware that an email would be sent to him. He had responded after 120 days 
which was a time limit set by the card scheme. So, she didnt uphold his complaint. She also 
noted that he had received a refund. And, in the circumstances she said she wouldnt ask 
Halifax to do anything further.
Mr M asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important at the outset to explain that the Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary code  its 
not a right and its not guaranteed to recover the money. In this case the Chargeback 
Scheme is provided by Mastercard. When Mr M told Halifax hed been incorrectly charged 
for extras it raised a dispute under the Chargeback Scheme. Thats what wed expect it to 
have done. 
Ive listened to the call, on 21 November 2019, when Mr M asked Halifax for a refund. Mr M 
provided his email address. Halifax told him that he needed to keep an eye on his emails 
because Halifax would contact him by email, usually within 7 to 10 days, to request more 
information. 
Mr M says the emails sent by Halifax went into his junk folder and he says the emails 
werent branded. I can understand that Mr M wouldnt check his junk folder as regularly as 
his inbox folder. But, in circumstances where hed been told that Halifax would contact him 
by email to request additional information, Id have expected him to contact it when he didnt 
appear to have received any emails from it. He didnt do that until after he noticed an email 
in his junk folder on 3 January 2020.
Mr M says he wasnt told anything about the 120 day period that applied to the chargeback 
process. And, there is no indication that he was provided with this information until after that 
period had expired. But I dont think that changes the position. He had been told hed be 
contacted for further information. And he was given a relatively short time frame for that 
contact to happen  less than 2 weeks after his call on 21 November 2019. But he didnt 
query why he hadnt received any requests for further information. 
Mr M has told our service he has been refunded for the extra charges. Its not clear when 
that refund was provided or who provided it. But, given that he has been refunded, I wouldnt 
expect Halifax to have to do anything further. 
Part of Mr Ms complaint related to concerns about how Halifax handled his complaint. But, 
its not for this service to tell Halifax what procedures or processes it should put in place as a 
business. Nor can this service look into Mr Ms concerns around this here, where those 
concerns specifically relate to a complaints process, which is not a regulated financial 
activity. So, Ive made no findings about this issue.
Having considered everything here, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require Halifax 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman