DRN-2481445
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC UK) misled him about the cost involved in 
making a foreign currency transfer.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr N made a transfer of 995 USD from his HSBC UK dollar account to another 
dollar account he holds with a different UK bank (Bank A). He explained he was aware that 
HSBC UK charged 6 USD fee per transfer. However, the payment he received into his 
account with Bank A was lower than he expected. He realised a further charge of 25 USD 
had been deducted before the payment was credited to his account with Bank A.
HSBC UK explained that to comply with US regulations, each time Mr N makes a payment in 
USD, they need to route it through the USA first, even if the payment isnt leaving the UK.
They said the terms and conditions of the account explained that intermediary banks may be 
used and that they might apply a charge. In this case, HSBC USA was used as the 
intermediary bank to process Mr Ns transfer and they charged him 25 USD. They also said 
Mr N had opted to only pay the HSBC UK charges when using his online banking, so the 
intermediary bank charges were taken from the balance of the payment.
Mr N remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He believes HSBC UK 
are charging customers a hidden fee and hes paid them two charges for the same 
transaction. He thinks HSBC UK are misleading customers about the fees when additional 
charges are applied by a related party. He said he felt forced to pay the charges since he 
didnt have the option to de-select it when making the online transfer. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt HSBC UK had been clear in their terms and 
conditions that they charge 6 USD for dollar transfers, but also that there might be charges 
from an intermediary bank. She said the charges applied by HSBC UK were correct and in 
line with the terms and conditions. Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should clarify, HSBC USA is a separate legal entity to HSBC UK, even if theyre part 
of the same global banking group. I know Mr N feels quite strongly about this, but I only have 
the power to consider the actions or omissions of HSBC UK in dealing with his transfers.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account. It sets out that there is a charge of 
6 USD for online banking transfers from a US dollar account.
It also explains that when sending money outside the UK or in a foreign currency within the 
UK, an intermediary bank may be used. It clarifies that the intermediary bank and the bank 
receiving the money may apply their own charges. So, Im satisfied Mr N was reasonably 
made aware that there might be additional charges from either the intermediary bank and/or 
the bank receiving the money.
I cant fairly expect HSBC UK to make Mr N aware of the specific charges that might apply to 
his transfer as this would depend on the type of currency, the intermediary bank and the 
beneficiary bank. 
I also wouldnt expect HSBC UK to include within their terms and conditions, a list of all the 
possible charges by intermediary and beneficiary banks for different currencies. It simply 
isnt practical or realistic for them to do so. As Ive said, HSBC UK made it clear to Mr N that 
there might be a charge from the intermediary bank, and this is all they can reasonably be 
expected to do.
I appreciate Mr Ns argument that HSBC UK should detail the charges from HSBC USA as 
theyre part of the same banking group. But as Ive explained, HSBC USA are a separate 
legal entity. HSBC UK arent responsible for informing their customers of the precise amount 
of the charges applied by intermediary banks. 
In any case, even if Mr N knew that HSBC USA would apply a 25 USD charge, he still 
wouldve had to pay it to transfer funds out of his account. And its also likely Mr N wouldve 
had to pay charges even if HSBC UK used a different intermediary bank. 
I understand Mr N feels hes paying the same company twice. But this isnt the case, Mr N 
only paid two charges because hes the sender and the payee. He paid the 6 USD charge 
from HSBC UK at the time of sending the payment. And the charge applied from the 
intermediary bank of 25 USD was deducted from the transfer amount before he received it 
into his account with Bank A. 
  
Mr N said he wasnt able to untick the option to avoid paying the charges when making the 
transfer. HSBC UK have explained they display the available charging options at the time of 
making the transfer and in this instance, he only had the option to pay the HSBC UK 
charges. Thats what HSBC UK charge to make a transfer - and thats clear in their terms 
and conditions. Put very simply, Mr N couldnt choose not to pay for a service for which 
HSBC charge a fee.
Ive looked at the information that was given to Mr N when he made the transfer. This 
explained the fee charged by HSBC UK will be deducted from Mr Ns account and the payee 
will pay any charges and fees applied by the intermediary bank(s), which may be deducted 
from the payment. That didnt make any material difference in this case, because Mr N is the 
sender and the payee. He wouldve incurred these charges regardless of whether he did it at 
the point of sending the funds or receiving it. 
I know Mr N will be disappointed, but Im satisfied HSBC UK has treated him fairly as they 
made him aware that there might be a charge from the intermediary bank. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman