DRN-1543906
 
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc added a default to his credit file.
What happened
Mr O was having financial difficulties and, in December 2018, he arranged a six-month 
payment plan for his Lloyds personal loan. The plan finished in June 2019 and Mr O didnt 
make any payments for July or August. Lloyds unsuccessfully tried to contact Mr O by phone 
in July. So they wrote to him and asked him to contact them. When Lloyds hadnt heard 
anything from Mr O, they defaulted his account.
Mr O has complained that Lloyds defaulted his account. Hes said he was out of the country 
at the time and didnt receive any contact from Lloyds telling him what they were planning to 
do. Hes also unhappy with how Lloyds dealt with his complaint.
Our investigator found that Mr O didnt make any payments from October to December 
2018, or in June and July 2019. And, because he was paying less than the required payment 
during the payment plan, this had also increased his arrears. So she though it was 
reasonable that Lloyds registered a default in August 2019.
She also explained that, because complaint handling isnt regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), were unable to look into how Mr Os complaint was handled.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He says he wasnt given the right information and 
right warnings before action was taken  he wasnt told that his arrears would increase when 
he spoke to Lloyds on 31 December 2018 about the payment plan, and he finds it strange 
that this call is no longer available.
He doesnt believe that Lloyds tried to contact him in July 2019, and says he never missed 
any calls from them. He also says Lloyds lied about leaving him a voicemail, when he 
doesnt have a voicemail facility, and he doesnt think enough consideration has been given 
to this fact. He believes Lloyds knew how to contact him and they should have sent all the 
information to me by the right means. He also thinks Lloyds shouldve told him what was 
happening, and they intended to register a default, when he spoke to them on 2 September.
Mr O has also commented on the way Lloyds dealt with his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.While this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, I wont be looking at how Lloyds dealt with 
his complaint. As the investigator said, this is not something thats regulated by the FCA. So 
its not something I have the authority to consider.
Mr O took out a loan with Lloyds in 2012. The contractual payment was £377.52 but, after 
missing some payments, in January 2019 Mr O agreed a six-month payment plan at a 
reduced payment of £116 per month. 
The payment plan was arranged in a call on 31 December 2018. A copy of this call isnt 
available, so I dont know exactly what was discussed. But Lloyds followed up with a letter 
dated 1 January 2019. This letter detailed the terms of the repayment plan, and if it differed 
to what Mr O had been told on the phone, Id have expected him to have queried this with 
Lloyds. Ive not seen anything to show me that he did this. And if it did differ, by not querying 
this and paying the agreed payments, Mr O agreed to the terms on the letter.
The letter said your loan has gone into arrears and these will continue to show as arrears 
during this repayment arrangement and therefore remain payable. If the monthly payment 
we have agreed is less than the normal contractual amount, the arrears will increase. So 
Lloyds were clear as to what would happen to the arrears during the payment plan. 
Mr Os loan statement shows he didnt make any payment in October, November or 
December 2018. He then made the agreed reduced payments from January to June 2019, 
but no payments were made in July or August. Mr O has said that he didnt receive anything 
from Lloyds when his plan ended. But he wouldve seen from his bank account that the 
direct debits were being returned unpaid. So even if he was unaware the plan had finished in 
June 2019, he wouldve known payments werent being made from July onwards.
Id wouldnt expect Lloyd to default an account with less than three-months arrears. Id also 
expect Lloyds to give Mr O the statutory notice of a default. Due to the nature of default 
notices, these are usually sent by post. Mr O said he was out of the country for a large part 
of 2019, so he couldnt access his post. But Lloyds also sent letters to Mr O through his 
online banking mailbox. Theyve confirmed Mr O was accessing his online banking during 
this period, but he didnt open and read the letters they sent him.
Mr O missed three payments before he went into the payment plan, and he missed two 
payments once the plan had finished. This is in addition to the arrears Mr O built up during 
the payment plan. So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong by writing to Mr O to give him 
notice of the default. And I think they acted reasonably in and closing his loan account down 
on 31 August 2019 and registering a default.
Mr O thinks Lloyds shouldve told him what was happening when he called them on 2 
September, which wouldve given him the opportunity to sort things. But his loan had already 
been closed at this point, so there was nothing Lloyds couldve done.
In their complaint response letter Lloyds have said we attempted to contact you in July 2019 
about the refinance loan. No successful contact was made, however a voicemail was left. 
But their case notes for 10 July 2019 say called cust possible refinnace [sic] !!!no 
answer/unable to leavemessage. The case note for the following day says 3 contacts been 
made and cust has not called back. 
Mr O has said he doesnt have a voicemail facility. Ive listened to a call between Mr O and 
Lloyds on 11 September 2019. During this call Lloyds put Mr O on hold and called the 
landline number hed confirmed to them (Mr O was calling off his mobile for this call). The 
call to the landline wasnt answered and Lloyds got Mr Os voicemail. Lloyds say they tried to call Mr O, but he says he didnt miss a call on his mobile from them. 
From what Ive seen its likely that Lloyds tried to call Mr O on his landline and mobile. They 
wouldve been able to leave a message on his landline, but not on his mobile because Mr O 
says he switched this facility off while abroad. 
Its also likely, especially as Lloyds were calling Mr O when he was abroad, that this came 
through as an unknown or withheld number. So, with no voicemail facility, Mr O wouldnt 
have known Lloyds were trying to contact him. But this doesnt mean that they didnt try. And 
they sent him letter, both physically and to his online account mailbox, which he has access 
to. So I cant agree with Mr O that Lloyds acted unreasonably before they defaulted his 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above dont I uphold Mr Os complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman