DRN-3071197
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter) handled a claim he 
made under the Home Emergency section of a home insurance policy he holds jointly with 
Miss K.
What happened
Mr G reported a leak in a bathroom to his Home Emergency (HE) provider Inter in January 
2021.
Inter arranged for a plumber to attend. Using a camera positioned underneath the bath, the 
plumber was able to isolate the water to an enclosed cistern to stop further water from 
leaking. 
Mr G says the insurer incorrectly advised him that they would be reimbursed for the costs to 
remove tiles surrounding the enclosed cistern which the plumber said would need removing 
in order to access and repair the leak. On carrying out his own investigations, Mr G said he 
was able to identify the source of the leak as being from a split to the cistern. He says he 
was able to repair it with silicone and tape. So Mr G is unhappy that the leak was repairable 
without removing the tile(s). Mr G doesnt think the plumber correctly advised the source of 
the leak. He wants reimbursement for the costs to put things right in the bathroom which he 
says was due to incorrect information given by Inter and his insurer. He raised a complaint 
with Inter.
Inter said that as the cistern was cracked and would need replacing, the removal of the tile 
would have been inevitable. It explained that under Mr G and Miss Ks HE policy, Inter 
excludes cover for sanitary ware. However, Inter said that if Mr G could provide an 
independent engineer report showing that the plumbers findings were incorrect, Inter would 
consider this. 
Mr G was also unhappy with the information he received in calls with Inter  he says he 
received conflicting advice about what was and wasnt covered under the policy. Mr G said 
Inter offered him compensation of £50 and £75, but withdrew these offers. 
Our investigator agreed that Inter had caused confusion in calls with Mr G as to what the 
policy provided cover for. But she thought it had clearly explained the reason why it didnt 
agree to meet the costs to remove and replace the tiles. 
She explained that any complaint Mr G and Miss K have about what the insurer of their 
home insurance policy told them would need to be referred to them  as they are a different 
insurer to Inter who cover the HE policy. 
Inter told the investigator it would honour the compensation offer it made of £75 for the poor 
service it provided in the calls. The investigator thought this sum was reasonable to reflect 
the confusion caused. But she thought Inter had otherwise acted reasonably in offering to 
reconsider matters if Mr G provided an engineer report. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said he intends to provide a report to show the leak could have been 
access without needing to remove any tiles. Our investigator explained that Mr G would 
need to send the report to Inter to consider. If he is unhappy with the outcome of Inters 
review of that report, he can make a new complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Miss Ks HE policy says the following which is relevant to their complaint:
Impact damage to, or mechanical failure of, a toilet bowl or cistern which results in 
complete loss of function of the only or all of the toilets in Your Home.
There was no evidence of impact damage or mechanical failure  and this wasnt the only 
toilet in Mr G and Miss Ks home. The policy also provides cover for a leak from the toilet. 
But the policy doesnt provide cover for the following:
 Replacing external overflows, hot and cold water storage tanks, radiators, 
immersion tank and sanitary ware including sinks and basins
Damage resulting from gaining necessary access to the Emergency or reinstating the 
fabric of Your Home otherwise known as Trace and Access.
I think Inter did let Mr G know that it wouldnt be able to provide cover for replacing the 
cistern (sanitary ware), or accessing the leak  as set out under the policy. 
I understand Mr G is unhappy that they have been left with a hole in their bathroom following 
the removal of the tile  which he feels wasnt necessary in order to repair the leak. 
When Mr G contacted Inter, he couldnt be sure of where the leak was coming from due to 
the cistern being hidden. In order for me to decide that Inter acted unreasonably, I would 
need to see evidence that the leak was accessible without the need to remove the tiles -  
and that this would have been obvious to the plumber when they attended. 
Mr G has provided a video and a photo to support his view. But I dont think this evidence 
clearly shows me that the leak was accessible or that it was obvious to the plumber. 
So, based on the information available, I cant say that Inter acted unreasonably in 
confirming it wont provide assistance with the replacement of the tiles. And where there is a 
dispute, we would expect the insurer to give a customer the option to provide their own 
independent evidence to support their complaint  which Inter has done in this case. 
Mr G accepts that in order to replace the damaged cistern  and fully repair the leak  the 
tiles would need to be removed and replaced in any event. I understand Mr G had no 
immediate plans to do that. But as there isnt enough information to show the leak was 
accessible and obvious, I dont think Inter is responsible for these costs. 
As the investigator explained, if when Mr G obtains a report as he intends to do, he is 
unhappy with Inters review of the report, he can raise a new complaint.
I agree that Inter caused confusion when speaking to Mr G about his claim. Inter incorrectly 
told Mr G his claim had been declined due to having more than one toilet, which Inter later 
corrected. And while Inter could have better explained the level of cover from the outset, it 
wasnt possible to provide a definite answer as to what was covered until the plumber 
attended and diagnosed the problem. So for the distress and inconvenience caused by the conflicting information given in calls 
with Inter, I think it should pay Mr G and Miss K £75 compensation. To clarify, I dont think 
Inter is responsible for the costs to replace the tile(s) and so this award isnt for that. For this 
reason, I think £75 is a fair and reasonable sum. But as Ive said, I think Inter acted 
reasonably in relying on the plumbers findings  and offering to consider an alternative 
independent report  when declining the claim to meet the costs to replace the removed 
tile(s).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Inter Partner Assistance 
(SA) to pay Mr G and Miss K £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its poor service. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr G and Miss K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G and Miss K how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr G and Miss K a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman