DRN-1701299
The complaint
Mr D has complained about American International Group UK Limited (AIG) because of the 
service it has provided in relation to a claim he made on his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D was having issues with his mobile phone as he was struggling to hear those who he 
was calling. So, he called AIG and made a claim on his mobile phone insurance as it needed 
to be repaired. Mr D was given two options. He could either pay £100 excess if Mr D chose 
the option to mail-in his mobile phone or £50 excess if Mr D took his phone to a repair 
agent. Mr D chose to mail in his mobile phone and paid £100 excess upfront. He arranged 
for the phone to be collected by courier at his business address the following day (13 
January 2020).
By lunchtime the courier hadnt collect Mr Ds device, so he contacted the business. When 
the claims handler checked the progress of the collection, it appeared that the collection 
hadnt been booked in. Mr D was very unhappy with the service he received and asked for 
his excess to be refunded. AIG said they would look into it and it arranged for the courier to 
collect the mobile phone the following day (14 January 2020). 
On 18 January 2020 AIG contacted Mr D to check if he had received his mobile phone and if 
it was now working correctly. Mr D says he had received packaging at his home address to 
send his phone to AIG, but Mr D was concerned about this as his home address wasnt 
provided for the claim. So, he wanted to know how this had happened. Mr D raised a formal 
complaint with AIG.
AIG partially upheld Mr Ds complaint. It said the courier was unable to show it had 
attempted to collect Mr Ds phone on 13 January 2020 and because of this it offered Mr D  
£10 compensation. But it couldnt find any evidence to suggest that the packaging (Mr D said 
he received at his home address) was sent by AIG. It asked Mr D to show it evidence of the 
packaging (As Mr D said it had the businesses name on it) but Mr D had said he no longer 
had the packaging.
Mr D remained unhappy. He wanted an explanation as to why his details were passed to a 
third party (the courier) without his consent. So, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint. He felt that Mr D had been inconvenienced, to 
a degree, and that further trouble and upset was warranted. He asked AIG to make a further 
award of £40. So, in total £50 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree, he wanted an explanation for how the courier obtained his details and 
recognition for the fact he paid for a service he didnt receive. 
AIG didnt agree either, it said Mr D did not pay extra for collection service on a specific date, 
so although the courier didnt turn up when Mr D expected it to, Mr D didnt loose out 
financially but more that he was inconvenienced, and it felt that £10 was enough to 
compensate that. It also went on to say that it aims to have phones repaired within five days  of collection. So, while the courier didnt collect the phone when Mr D expected it to, it did 
collect the phone on 14 January 2020 and phone was repaired by 17 January 2020  so five 
days form the original collection date. So overall it didnt agree that Mr D was 
inconvenienced enough to warrant further compensation. 
As neither party agreed the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I have listened to the original call Mr D made on 11 January 2020 where he wished to a log a 
claim on his policy. Mr D made it clear he wanted to choose the mail in option. Mr D 
explained he wanted the phone to be collected form his work address and provided the 
relevant details. The advisors confirm the collection would be Monday (13 January 2020) 
and advises that Mr D would receive a text message outlining time of collection. So, with that 
in mind, I think it is fair to say Mr D was expecting the phone to be collected on 13 January 
2020.
Mr D contacted the courier on 13 January 2020 around mid-day. Having listened to the call I 
am aware that Mr D makes it clear he is at work and is concerned as his phone has not yet 
been collected. He goes on to explain that his phone is in reception and the receptionists 
leave at 5pm, and therefore his phone would be left unattended. During that time the advisor 
calls the courier and it is confirmed that there was no tracking number raised, so the 
collection was never booked in. Therefore, an error had occurred whilst booking the phone in 
for collection on 13 January 2020. So, but for Mr D contacting AIG on 13 January 2020, it 
wouldnt have become apparent that an error had occurred and Mr Ds phone had never 
been booked for collection.
It is apparent in the call that Mr D made it clear he felt inconvenienced by this as he could 
have selected the cheaper option (taking his phone to be repaired and paying £50 excess) 
and his phone would  either have been repaired straight away, or sent off that day. 
Ive listened to the call which took place on 18 January 2020, the advisor says: 
as I understand it, you had that collected from work, so you didnt lose anytime from work at 
all
Mr D made it clear that wasnt the case and that he works on the road, but he had to be at 
the office waiting for his phone to be collected. 
AIG has said it cant refund the £100 excess fee as it is outlined in the terms and conditions 
that an excess fee of £100 would be applied if Mr D chose the mail in option. And the terms 
dont specify a time in which a collection would be made. 
I have also considered the overall time it took for the phone to be collected, repaired and 
returned to Mr D. And I can see that it fell within the time frame that AIG advised Mr D during 
the call which took place on 11 January 2020.  So, with that in mind, I cant say AIG hasnt 
acted in line with its terms and conditions, or overall service standards in regards to the time 
it takes for a phone to be repaired. Mr D was also aware that there was an excess fee of £100 if he chose the mail in option. So, overall I wont be asking AIG to refund the excess 
fee of £100 to Mr D.
However, during the call on 11 January 2020, Mr D was advised the phone should be 
collected on Monday but due to an error made by AIG, the phone was not collected that 
day. AIG offered £10 for inconvenience it caused. But I am not satisfied this accurately 
reflects the inconvenience which has been caused to Mr D. He had already explained that 
he usually works on the road, so he had made arrangements to be in the office that day 
waiting for the phone to be collected. As the phone wasnt collected that day (as he was 
told), Mr D had to change his schedule the following day in order to be in the office. 
Mr D has also said that AIG sent packaging to his home address and he is unhappy about 
this as he never gave it consent to do so. On the call dated 18 January 2020 the advisor 
sated there was no evidence to suggest an packaging had been sent to Mr DD, the advisor 
asked Mr D to send a picture of the packaging to show it was sent by them. Mr D was unable 
to do so as he no longer has the packaging. I have also listened to the call between AIG and 
the courier on 13 January 2020 and I am satisfied that Mr Ds home address was not 
provided. So, without any further evidence, I cant hold AIG responsible for the packaging Mr 
D received. 
Putting things right
So overall, I am satisfied that Mr D did experience a degree of trouble and upset that 
warrants more than £10 compensation. So overall AIG should make a total award of £50. 
But as £10 has already been offered, AIG will need to compensate Mr D a further £40
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require American International Group UK 
Limited to pay Mr D £40 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman