The complaint
Miss W says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her 
irresponsibly. She's also unhappy about a number of customer service issues that arose 
when she tried to change the date of her repayments. 
What happened
Miss W had two loans with Satsuma, both for £150, commencing on 21 and 26 April 2019. 
Shortly after the loans started Miss W asked to change the repayment date. A number of 
issues then arose; payments were taken on incorrect dates, incorrect arrears reminders 
were sent and Miss W was not kept informed about the consequences of making payments 
monthly rather than the weekly schedule initially agreed.
Satsuma accepted the service failings and reduced Miss W's loan balance by £30 to reflect 
these. It didn't think it had lent irresponsibly so didn't uphold this aspect of Miss W's 
complaint. 
An adjudicator considered the complaint and recommenced that Satsuma should pay the 
compensation it had offered directly to Miss W, rather than using it to reduce her loan 
balance. He didn't think the complaint about Satsuma's decision to lend should be upheld.
Miss W didn't agree - she thought Satsuma should pay her further compensation and that it 
should've seen from her credit history that she was in financial difficulty. As no agreement 
was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Miss Ws case.  
The customer service complaint
There's no dispute Satsuma made a number of errors when dealing with Miss W's request to 
change the repayment date for her loans. It accepted those failures in its final response letter 
and automatically applied some compensation to one of Miss W's loan accounts.
I understand it's Satsuma's process to apply compensation to loan accounts. But I don't think 
it was fair to do so in Miss W's case. Her repayments were essentially up to date at the time 
it made its errors, so I don't think it was fair to adjust the balance of her loans. I think the 
DRN-1229213compensation should've been paid to Miss W directly. I'm therefore going to tell Satsuma to 
pay £30 directly to Miss W.
Our adjudicator noted that Satsuma may think this means it should reverse the £30 payment 
it made to Miss W's account. I hope that upon reflection, given the number of errors it made, 
Satsuma sees this may be a somewhat mean-spirited course of action. £60 total 
compensation would be in line with the sort of award this service makes for causing this level 
of trouble and upset.
The irresponsible lending complaint
Satsuma lent to Miss W twice, just a few days apart. I believe Miss W also had some 
Provident home credit loans before she took out the Satsuma loans. The loans were 
repayable weekly at £9.95 and £6.35 per week (the repayment amounts are different as the 
loans had different terms). Satsuma has said Miss W reported monthly income of £1,700 
and monthly expenditure of £800 when she applied for her loans. It made some adjustments 
to the expenditure figures provided, increasing them as part of its affordability assessment.
I think Satsuma acted fairly when it decided to lend to Miss W. The amounts lent and the 
weekly repayments were modest when compared to the information Miss W provided about 
her income and expenditure. In this context, even though the loans were taken only a few 
days apart, I wouldn't have expected Satsuma to suspect the repayments were not 
affordable for Miss W. It may have seen Miss W was in greater financial difficulty than it 
realised had it taken a deeper look into her financial situation. But I think that would not have 
been proportionate for the two loans Miss W requested.
Putting things right
Satsuma should pay £30 directly to Miss W in recognition of its customer service failings. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Provident Personal Credit Limited. It must pay the 
compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2019.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman