DRN-3200528
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) have dealt 
with an escape of water claim under her home insurance policy. She doesnt feel the 
compensation that has been awarded is sufficient and doesnt agree the options she has 
been provided with to move the clam forward are reasonable in light of her familys 
circumstances.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt my role to dictate an insurers process or manage a claim to conclusion. 
Matters such as the value of any cash settlement or works that need to be 
undertaken need to be worked out between UKI and Mrs T. In this decision I will only 
be considering if the options UKI have set out to move the claim forward are 
reasonable and if the compensation amount is fair. 
UKI has offered Mrs T two options to move the claim forward, it will complete the 
works, but Mrs T and her family will need to move out of their home and into 
alternative accommodation. (It is unable to now locate a contractor who will 
undertake the works with the family in situ, given the familys specific needs). Or, it 
will make a cash settlement to Mrs T and she can arrange her own repairs. It will also 
pay a disbursement allowance to recognise the upheaval to Mrs T and her family. 
We cant make a legal finding that the Equality Act has been breached or that a 
businesss actions are tantamount to discrimination  the Act makes clear that this is 
exclusively a matter for the courts. However, as part of our investigation we do take 
the law, best practice and industry guidance into account and so we can make a 
finding on whether we think a customer has been treated fairly and reasonably.
Mrs T has provided details about her sons specific needs and while I appreciate 
Mrs T feels moving out isnt an option, I cant force UKI to find a contactor that will 
complete the works in the way Mrs T would like. Having reviewed everything, I am 
satisfied that UKI have taken these circumstances into account in offering the options 
it has. Mrs T will therefore need to make a decision on which option she wishes to 
take in order for the claim to move forward.
It is recognised by both parties that the claim journey has been far from a smooth 
process. To recognise this and the poor service Mrs T has received UKI offered her 
£1,000 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I 
wont be asking UKI to increase this.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T, but for the reasons set out above, I 
do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman