DRN-3380814
The complaint
Mr D complained his motor insurance policy was unfairly cancelled by Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV).
What happened
As the renewal of Mr Ds policy was approaching, Mr D received a communication from LV 
informing him that his policy would automatically be renewed and a payment would be taken 
to cover the premium using his credit card which was registered to the account. LV informed 
Mr D what date this would happen.
After the policy was meant to have been renewed Mr D called LV to report a non-fault 
accident. At that time, he was made aware by LV that his policy had been cancelled. When 
LV went to take the payment from Mr Ds credit card, the payment was unsuccessful. LV 
wrote to Mr D via e-mail to inform him his payment wasnt successful and provided him with 
a notice of cancellation. LV asked Mr D to contact it. When LV received no response, it sent 
Mr D a second e-mail notifying him that his policy had been cancelled. 
Mr D was unhappy as he said he didnt receive the emails which were sent to his work e-
mail address. He thought LV shouldve also sent a postal letter informing him of what had 
happened. He thinks LV should apologise, pay for the repairs to his car and change their 
communication approach for all customers.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think LV had done enough to 
contact Mr D, so he thought LV should reinstate Mr Ds policy and cover the claim. He said 
LV should remove any cancellation markers from Mr Ds insurance record, compensate him 
if hes taken out another policy and pay him £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. LV disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy to see what it says about policy 
cancellation. It states in clause 10 of the general conditions:
We'll cancel your insurance by giving you 7 days' notice if you don't pay the premium or 
monthly payment when we've asked for the money by a certain date. 
The clause continues We'll send you a letter or email letting you know the cancellation date 
and the reason why we're cancelling your insurance. If you've just taken out the policy or 
renewed and haven't paid any premiums, we'll cancel your insurance back to the 
start/renewal date. 
LV sent Mr D a cancellation notice by email, informing him his payment hadnt been 
successful. As LV didnt have a response from Mr D, it issued a letter by email to cancel the 
policy seven days later. Mr D said he didnt see these emails. He said if he had seen them 
he wouldve acted. LV has provided evidence that it did send the emails and has said there 
is evidence the first email was opened. LV has also told us that Mr Ds preferred method of 
communication was to his works email address, which is what it used to send Mr D the 
emails.
So, LV has shown it has met the terms of its policy. However, I have looked at whether I 
think LVs approach to cancel the policy after two emails is a fair one. Our research into the 
practises adopted by major insurers in similar circumstances to Mr Ds, shows that all would 
have given their customers the opportunity to correct a failed first payment of an insurance 
contract. And that research showed most major insurers are using two methods of 
communications and giving consumers time to rectify their failed payments before cancelling 
their policies.
I think LV shouldve tried to contact Mr D again before issuing its notice of cancellation. And I 
think LV shouldve followed good industry practice by using another means of 
communication to inform Mr D of its intent to cancel and its cancellation of the policy. I think 
this is especially important where the consumer has a specific communication preference 
such as text or email. So, as well as sending seven days notice by email, I think itd 
wouldve been better to send another communication by post, text, or phone as well.
This is because cancelling a policy can have a significant impact on Mr D. Mr D will have to 
tell future insurers hes had a policy cancelled and some insurers will record and share 
information about policies theyve decided to cancel.
Policy cancellations are often considered when offering insurance and calculating premiums 
and its likely the cost of future policies will be higher if an insurer or broker has cancelled a 
policy. There isnt a time limit on how long Mr D might have to declare a cancelled policy and 
insurers will often ask if Mr D has ever had a policy cancelled.
Not having a valid motor insurance policy is also illegal and the penalties for this are severe. 
This can cause problems for consumers who either dont buy a new policy or didnt know 
their policy has been cancelled. 
Ive considered if it wouldve made a difference if Mr D was better informed by using a 
second form of communication. Mr D has explained how he didnt see the emails that were 
sent. I believe Mr D when he said he didnt see these emails. LV has provided evidence that 
one of these emails was opened and one wasnt. I can appreciate how these emails couldve 
got missed or mislaid by Mr D if he was distracted by other emails hed received relevant to 
his work. 
Its not clear why the payment wasnt successful when LV went to process Mr Ds payment. 
However, Mr D has said he had funds ready to pay for his insurance cover. I think if LV had 
made more of an effort to contact Mr D to tell him his payment had been unsuccessful; I 
think Mr D wouldve arranged an alternate method of payment to ensure he maintained his 
cover. Therefore, as I dont think LV has taken reasonable steps to inform Mr D of this 
situation, I dont think it has treated Mr D fairly. Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
Ive considered what LV needs to do to put this right and put Mr D back in the position he 
wouldve been in had the cancellation not happened. LV should re-instate the policy and 
consider the claim that Mr D initially reported in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. Mr D would need to pay the appropriate premiums for the cover he 
retrospectively takes out. LV should also ensure any cancellation markers it has applied are 
removed from Mr Ds record, so there is no record of this when Mr D comes to take out 
future policies.Its possible Mr D may have taken out an alternative policy with another insurer. LV should 
review the costs that have been incurred and what actions are required to re-instate his 
policy with LV. If Mr D has suffered any losses for this period (e.g. dual running of policies, 
cancellation fees, higher premiums) LV should reimburse this provided Mr D is able to 
provide valid receipts and evidence of such losses. LV should also add 8% simple interest 
per annum to these losses as Mr D has been without this money (from the date of the loss to 
the date its settled).
Finally, I think Mr D will have suffered distress from his car claim not been covered and the 
inconvenience with trying to sort this out. He may also have needed to secure alternative 
insurance. Therefore, I award £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited to do
Re-instate Mr Ds policy and consider the claim that Mr D initially reported in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Remove any cancellation markers that have been added to Mr Ds record
Reimburse any losses (e.g. dual running of policies, cancellation fees, higher 
premiums) based on evidence provided by Mr D, plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of the loss to the date of the settlement
£200 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman