DRN-1922982
The complaint
Mr H complains that DAS Legal expenses Insurance Company Limited has unfairly refused 
to deal with a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
Background
In April 2019, Mr Hs property was damaged by his neighbours, so he made a claim on his 
policy to pursue legal action against them. 
DAS considered the claim and said there was potential cover. But it asked Mr H to make a 
claim on his home insurance policy first. It said this was because legal action was a last 
resort and Mr H would be required by the courts to show hed exhausted all other avenues 
before bringing a claim. 
Mr H doesnt want to do this as it would mean hed have to pay a policy excess and 
increased premiums if he made a claim on his home insurance. He also questioned the 
purpose of having legal expenses insurance if he couldnt use it to avoid incurring these 
losses. He wants the claim dealt with in the same way a motor claim would; as a non-fault on 
a no cost basis.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that DAS stance was in line with 
common law duties and the Civil Procedure Rules 1998. So she didnt think DAS had acted 
unfairly by asking Mr H to explore other options of recovery before accepting his claim. 
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs policy provides cover for his legal costs in pursuing action following an event which 
causes physical damage to his principal home. The starting point is the policy terms. They 
say: 
Other insurancesif any claim covered under this policy is also covered by another policy, 
or would have been covered if this policy did not exist, we will only pay our share of the claim 
even if the other insurer refuses the claim.
Ive thought about whether this term applies to Mr Hs circumstances. And Im persuaded, on 
balance, that it does. Mr H does hold another insurance policy that would potentially cover 
this claim. But I think DAS would still be liable for its share of the claim. Ill expand on this in 
more detail further on in my decision.
Mr H has a duty to mitigate his losses. Should he decide to pursue this claim in court without 
doing so, and the judge learns that he held insurance cover for the damage, its likely they 
will award adverse costs against him. This means Mr H would have to pay both his and his 
neighbours legal costs. This is because the court is unlikely to look favourably on people 
bringing cases to court where there are alternative routes available to revolve things. 
DAS has also referred to the pre action protocols set out within the Civil Procedure Rules 
1998. DAS says those protocols require Mr H to exhaust all other avenues of resolving his 
dispute before he proceeds to court. Its right that before commencing proceedings the court 
will expect the parties to have exchanged information to reduce the costs of resolving the 
dispute. The exchange of information can include disclosure of whether a party has 
alternative insurance that will cover them for the issue complained about. For the reasons 
Ive set out above, I think that if it were disclosed that Mr H has insurance that could cover 
him in these circumstances, this would prejudice his claim and therefore DAS position on 
the issue of costs. And for those reasons I wouldnt expect DAS to continue to fund Mr Hs 
legal costs without him first mitigating his loss by claiming on his buildings insurance policy 
to see whether this might resolve things.
I appreciate Mr Hs comments that hed like his claim dealt with in the same way as a motor 
claim would be; on a non-fault, no cost basis. But legal expenses claims dont operate in the 
same was as motor insurance. They are not recorded as fault and non-fault for example. 
Rather theyre in place to enable policyholders to pursue legal action with a view to 
remedying the problem complained of. Because of this there are always costs attached to 
pursuing claims for the insurer. So the insurer will always consider the likely outcome of any 
court action and balance this against what its prepared to pay about before pursuing 
proceedings and incurring costs. 
I know Mr H is reluctant to claim on his household insurance as he doesnt want to pay an 
excess and be subjected to increased premiums. Whilst this is understandable, the purpose 
of having household insurance is to protect against situations such as this. So its reasonable 
to expect Mr H to make a claim.
As I mentioned above, I do think DAS are still liable for its share of the claim. So if Mr H is 
successful with a claim on his household insurance, I would expect DAS to consider a claim 
for Mr Hs uninsured losses  such as his policy excess  should his household insurer be 
unable to recover this for him. DAS may consider paying this to Mr H directly rather than 
pursuing legal action to recover it, given the cost of doing so, should it consider that more 
appropriate. 
And if Mr Hs claim on his household insurance policy is unsuccessful, DAS should 
reconsider his claim against his neighbours in full. 
My final decision
 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman