DRN-2200114
The complaint
Mr S complains that Co-operative bank Ltd wont refund disputed transactions made from his 
account. 
What happened
Mr S says he was on holiday in Spain, when in the early hours of the morning he entered a 
bar Ill call Bar D. Bar D provided additional services which Mr S says he wasnt aware of 
before entering. Hed been consuming alcohol for a few hours up to this point and described 
himself as inebriated. On entering Bar D Mr S says he sat down at a table and two women 
came and sat next to him. He says that a member of staff came over with a card machine  
and he bought them some drinks by entering his credit card and PIN in the machine. After 
this he cant remember exactly what happened, but he thinks he might have been drugged, 
and he was woken up by staff in the bar at around 7am. 
After returning to the UK, Mr S checked his online banking for his credit card and noticed 
numerous transactions throughout the night at Bar D which totalled just over £6,000. 
Mr Ss debit card was also used during his time in Bar D.
Mr S thinks that members of staff in Bar D must have seen his PIN when he entered it into 
the machine  then after he became unconscious took his card before returning it at a later 
time. 
The Co-op investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. They said that 
Mr S hadnt kept his card and PIN safe and therefore acted with gross negligence. 
As Mr S didnt agree with the Co-ops decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and contacted the Co-op in an attempt to reach 
a resolution. They explained that the Co-op have a responsibility to protect customers from 
financial harm and because Mr S used his credit card they cant rely on gross negligence  
because this doesnt apply to credit. The Co-op didnt accept this  and said they believed 
that Mr S either authorised the transactions or gave someone the authority to carry them out. 
Our investigator reviewed the case and thought that the Co-op should refund Mr Ss 
transactions. She explained that there was a clear point of compromise for Mr Ss card and 
PIN and the transactions were very unusual occurring in close succession for the same 
amount on a number of occasions. She also spoke with Mr S about the transaction on his 
debit card  Mr S explained that he didnt carry these out but due to the lower value of these 
transactions, in contrast to his credit card, he had disputed these with the Co-op. 
The Co-op didnt accept our investigators outcome and in summary said:
-They dont think its odd that one drink was purchased after another, if Mr S was with 
a group of women and buying them drinks. 
-Initially Mr S claimed it was an ordinary bar, but its clear that more expensive 
services were provided. 
-If Mr S was scammed then theyd have expected the fraudsters to take cash from an 
ATM as well, and for them to have carried on until the card stopped working. Neither 
happened. 
-Mr Ss debit card was also used  so how did they know Mr Ss debit card PIN? And 
some of the transactions on Mr Ss debit card were for a low value, which doesnt fit a 
usual fraudsters pattern of behaviour.
-Mr Ss lack of memory doesnt indicate that he didnt consent to the transactions, and 
the bank shouldnt be held liable because he was intoxicated. 
As the Co-op didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
Generally, the Co-op can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable the Co-op to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr S consented to the 
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I think on balance Mr S didnt authorise the transactions. This is 
because:
-The disputed transactions were carried out using Mr Ss genuine card and PIN. Mr S 
has explained he carried out two genuine transactions  albeit he believes that the 
value may have been inflated  in Bar D. Mr S has also identified a number of 
potential fraudsters who were near him in Bar D at the time. And Ive thought about 
how they could have got hold of his card and PIN. Mr S says he thinks after carrying 
out the first two transactions he fell asleep  and I think this is where there was an 
opportunity for the fraudsters to get hold of Mr Ss card. As Mr S was with at least two 
women I also think its possible one of them could have overseen his PIN, and then 
used this later to carry out the disputed transactions. 
-There are a large number of transactions, generally increasing in value over a short 
period of time. This fits a pattern of how Id expect a fraudster to use Mr Ss card if 
theyd gained access to it. 
-A number of the transactions occur shortly after one another and for the same value. 
At one point there are four transactions for £185.40 within 35 minutes, or two for 
£556.19 within just over a minute. I find it difficult to understand what genuine 
transactions Mr S could be carrying out within such a short time of each other. 
-Ive looked at Mr Ss previous spending over the six months leading up to the 
disputed transactions. Its clear Mr S has carried out some large transactions but 
theres no significant spending of a similar nature during this period. -Ive seen evidence of similar reports of fraud which took place at clubs in Europe. 
This persuades me that Mr Ss account is plausible. 
The Co-op responded to our investigators view with further points. Firstly they argued 
that theyd expect fraudsters to have carried out ATM transactions as well as point of 
sale ones. I understand what the Co-op are trying to say here, and I agree that you might 
expect this to take place. But, for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied that the 
transactions do fit how Id expect a fraudster to behave in these circumstances. 
The Co-op have also raised that Mr Ss debit card was also used during his time at 
Bar D. And how did the fraudsters know his PIN? Ive considered the Co-ops point here, 
and I do think its unusual the fraudsters also used Mr Ss debit card. But Mr S has 
explained he has the same PIN for both cards, and Ive been provided with evidence 
from the Co-op to show that the PIN for both cards have been changed by Mr S in the 
past. So Im satisfied this is possible. I also think its plausible that once getting access to 
Mr Ss credit card the fraudsters also tried to use any other cards he had on him. 
The Co-op have also said that Mr Ss lack of memory doesnt indicate that he didnt 
consent to the transactions  and the bank shouldnt be held responsible when he cant 
remember because he was intoxicated. Its true that Mr S wasnt sure which transactions 
he authorised when he first contacted the Co-op, but Im satisfied that he was clear he 
didnt authorise the vast majority of the transactions. And for the reasons Ive outlined 
above Im satisfied that on balance its likely Mr S didnt authorise the disputed 
transactions. And it follows Co-op arent able to hold him liable for them. 
My final decision
My Final Decision is I direct the Co-operative bank Limited to:
-Remove the disputed transactions from Mr Ds credit card
-Rework Mr Ds account to remove any interest and charges which have resulted from 
the fraud
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman