DRN-3043485
The complaint and background
Mr F complains about his bank Santander UK Plc. He says the bank failed to protect him 
from the financial harm caused by a company called MarketsCube.com (Markets Cube). He 
alleges they were scammers posing as a forex and CFD trading brokerage, as a result of 
which he lost around £5,700. He is unhappy with how the chargeback claim was handled. 
Santander denies responsibility for the loss. Its position, broadly, is that at the time of the 
transactions in 2018 there was no adverse information about Markets Cube. Santander says 
it does blacklist third parties based on intelligence. However, there was no adverse 
information about Markets Cube at the time of Mr Fs transactions. Santander says 
insufficient information was known about typical binary options transactions to have real time 
transaction monitoring which would have identified Mr Fs transactions to Markets Cube. 
Santander says it tried to assist by processing chargeback claims but these failed as Mr F 
was unable to provide the necessary evidence under the relevant chargeback reason code. 
On 21 July 2021, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. For completeness, 
I repeat my provisional findings below: 
1. Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in 
fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the 
performance of (e.g.) commodities or stocks that resulted in very disappointing 
returns or losses. Some binary-options traders promoted these productswhich 
were not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at 
the timeusing sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. 
However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or 
omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or 
burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or 
failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of 
causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
2. Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect 
customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But 
when simply executing authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers 
against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice  and the FCA has 
confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice 
(see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud, below). So, the 
first question to resolve is whether this particular retailer/trader was actually a 
fraudster.
3. I am satisfied that Markets Cube were not carrying out legitimate forex, CFD or 
binary-options trades but were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not 
actually making trades/bets with the money received from clients but simply 
manipulating their online trading platform to show purported gainswith initial 
token pay-outsin order to induce further investments from victims such as Mr F. 
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this because:
a. In 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK were 
required to be regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  whereas 
Markets Cube were not. Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so 
far as I am reasonably aware. This indicates they were operating illegally, 
probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate firms tend to comply with 
regulatory requirements.
b. On 15 October 2018, a warning about Markets Cube was placed on the 
Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO). The Spanish Comisin Nacional del Mercado de 
Valores reported that they were offering financial services in its jurisdiction 
without authorisation. A warning from the FCA followed on 1 November 
2018. Two more warnings from other regulators were published on the 
IOSCOs Investor Alert Portal in 2019 and 2020.
c. There are several reports in the public domaine.g. foreign press and 
online forumsstating that Markets Cube were scammers. This hearsay is 
not in itself sufficient evidence of fraud. But in the context of known 
regulatory facts, it may fairly and reasonably be regarded as circumstantial 
evidence that helps build an overall picture of scammers dishonestly 
seeking gains at the expense of others.
4. Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor 
investment advice, I must now go on to consider four more issues in order to 
determine the outcome of the complaint:
a. Did Santander deal with Mr Fs chargeback claims fairly?
b. If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or 
uncharacteristic for Mr F and/or his account that Santander fraud alerts ought 
reasonably to have triggered some sort of intervention?
c. If triggered, would Santanders intervention have made a difference and 
prevented or reduced the loss?
d. And if so, was Mr F partly to blame for what happened such that it would be 
fair and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
chargeback
5. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on 
a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them 
after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander) acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of 
its cardholder.
6. Mr F is upset because Santander refused to pursue his chargeback under Reason 
Code 13.5not as describedwhen it was defended by the merchant acquirer on 
behalf of Markets Cube. (It may seem odd that a scammer would actively engage in 
a chargeback process, e.g. by supplying screenshots of transactions, payments out, 
terms of business, etc. However, I understand this is not uncommon for this type of 
investment scam, whose business model is often predicated on using payment 
services such as Visa.)
7. In my judgment, it was not unreasonable of Santander to drop the chargeback claim 
after its first presentment failed. First, it was clear that Markets Cubes merchant acquirer intended to defend the claim and Santander did not initially present the 
required evidence under the reason code to enable it to ultimately take it to Visas 
arbitration stage; and in any event, it is strictly a matter of discretion for the card 
issuer. In this case, when considering whether Santander exercised its discretion in a 
fair and non-arbitrary manner, I am mindful that the Visa chargeback rules did cover 
binary-options (or forex) trading from 14 October 2017, i.e. prior to the disputed 
transactions: see Visa Business News, 26 October 2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby 
a binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than 
the original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be 
paid out via the chargeback process.
However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required Santander to 
present dated evidence that Mr F had an available balance (in the form of a 
screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums 
equal to, or less than, his available balances on the same day. Unfortunately, 
merchants like Markets Cube were aware of the specific requirements of the 
chargeback scheme and could manipulate the software used to remove the 
available balances once a withdrawal request was made even though no funds 
were actually remitted to the customer. Ive noted this happened in Mr Fs case. 
8. Though not material to the circumstances of this case, it is worth adding for 
completeness that, from 1 December 2018, Visas rules changed again to require 
unregulated and unlicensed binary-options merchants (and other high-brand risk 
merchants) to be coded under Merchant Category Code (MCC) 7995Betting, 
including Lottery Tickets, Casino Gaming Chips, Off-Track Betting, and Wagers at 
Race Tracks. Visa Business News dated 6 September 2018 stated:
Visa has discovered that certain binary options, rolling spot forex trading, financial spread 
betting and contracts for difference merchants are being acquired in markets that do not 
require licensing or regulate merchant trading platforms. In addition, some of these 
merchants are selling into countries where local laws prohibit such transactions or require 
licensing by the relevant financial services authority.
This change gave a further chargeback right available to the card issuer  reason 
code 12.7 (invalid data). This is where a merchant used an invalid MCC; but it has a 
much shorter timescale of 75 days for a claim to be processed. This reason code 
would not have been applicable at the time Mr F requested a chargeback as 
merchants like Markets Cube were not yet required by Visa to re-code. 
9. As the disputed transactions occurred in 2018 (after the changes to Visas 
chargeback reason codes were published), Santander could only have successfully 
pursued Mr Fs chargeback further than it did if he had the required evidence. And by 
the time Mr F realised hed fallen victim to a scam (after his final payment), Markets 
Cube prevented him from gathering this evidence. So, declining to take the case 
further in the Visa chargeback process in circumstances where there were no 
reasonable prospects of success was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of 
Santanders discretion.
10. For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Santander acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with the chargeback claim at the time Mr F presented his 
case, so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground.unusual or uncharacteristic activity
11. Santander is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-
diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We 
have published many decisions on our website setting out these principles and 
quoting the relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again 
here in detail.
12. It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr F for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at 
the time. This is because they were made by Mr F using the legitimate security 
credentials provided to him by Santander. These must be regarded as authorised 
payments even though Mr F was the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he 
did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the 
terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr F is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
13. However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto 
counter various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing 
of  terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
14. I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as Santander that Mr Fs account was being subjected to 
unusual and uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a 
fraud or scam, and therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to 
ask discreet questions about the nature and purpose of the payments).
15. First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As 
long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and 
protecting victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated 
watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely 
and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc. Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to 
staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the 
payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to 
the payer.16. In Mr Fs case, there was no warning about Markets Cube on IOSCOs Investor 
Alerts Portal until after Mr F made all of his payments. I therefore do not think 
Santander ought to have automatically blocked payments to it. However, in light of 
the odd pattern of payments that followed, I do think this was a trigger for potential 
fraud, particularly given that this was also a new payee; also an international payee; 
and a payee trading in forex and CFDs without being registered with the FCA (as 
required at the time). Therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have 
properly questioned Mr F before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself 
that all was well.
17. The frequency of the payments and sums involved in relation to how Mr F normally 
operated his account should in themselves have alerted Santander to the risk of 
harm and prompted discreet queries almost from the outset.
18. The payments on the first five days of Mr Fs trading were as follows:
date payment total
23/04/2018 £200.00 £200.00
26/04/2018 £2,000.00 £2,200.00
27/04/2018 £2,000.00 £4,200.00
19. I set out all the disputed payments in Appendix 1 below  but the above are enough 
for our purposes at this stage. 
20. This was a highly unusual and uncharacteristic pattern of spending for Mr F 
compared with his recent history on the account  and was an indicator that 
something untoward might be happening (including, for example, an attempt to 
circumvent the anti-money laundering requirements by making a number of smaller 
payments in short succession to the same payee). Certainly by the time Mr F made 
the third payment, a pattern was emerging that ought reasonably to have caused 
Santander to make further enquiries of him about what was going on. Ive noted from 
the technical evidence provided by Santander that it made no attempts to contact 
Mr F about his payments to Markets Cube.
21. If Santander had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr F 
and asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would 
have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no 
duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
invited him to check whether the payee was registered with the FCA. It could have 
also explained its own customer experiences with merchants like Markets Cube in 
that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances. After 
all, at that time, there was information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to 
have known even if a lay consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated 
with binary options, forex and CFDs including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. 
Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys 
July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; the Financial Conduct Authoritys forex trading scam warning of 
August 2017; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that 
an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, and so forth).
22. There is no evidence that Santander provided Mr F with any meaningful warnings 
or gave him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was 
making. It was a missed opportunity to intervene.causation
23. If Santander had asked Mr F what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that 
everything had been done over the phone and online with his broker. Santander 
did not need to know for certain whether Mr F was dealing with a fraudulent binary 
options/forex/CFD trader or investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) 
product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations 
under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider there were 
such grounds here and, therefore, that Santander ought reasonably to have 
provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unregulated, overseas binary options. 
24. If Santander had given a warning, I believe that Mr F would have paused and 
looked more closely into Markets Cube before proceeding. There is no evidence 
that he was willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or 
gambling; these were his tuition fee monies after all. It seems more probable that he 
would have made further enquiries into binary-options/forex scams and whether or 
not Markets Cube were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered 
they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-
options/forex scams (see above). In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from 
his trusted bank would probably have exposed Markets Cubes smoke and mirrors, 
causing him to stop trading and preventing further losses.
25. Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would 
have alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options dealers, 
which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed brokers 
(mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky international bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if 
he is to win. So by the time Mr F attempted to make a withdrawal he would probably 
have stopped in his tracks. But for Santanders failure to act on clear triggers of 
potential fraud or financial harm, Mr F would probably have lost no money. I say this 
because at the time of his final payment, he had his full deposits available on his 
trading account. I think Markets Cube providing excuses as to why Mr F couldnt 
withdraw his available balances until he reached a required trading volume would 
have prompted him to contact Santander for assistance with a chargeback claim. At 
this stage, he would have gathered the evidence required for Santander to have 
pursued a successful chargeback claim on his behalf. 
contributory negligence
26. Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr F was to 
blame for what happened; that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any 
harm. At the time of his trading, there was no information in the public domain about 
this particular trader. In any event, I do not place too much weight on general but 
arcane information in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the 
information imbalance between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.
27. Shortly before Mr Fs final payment of £1,500 on 14 May 2018, he attempted to 
make a withdrawal of some profits totalling £1,000. His Markets Cube account 
manager declined this request and informed him that he first had to reach a required trading volume and a further deposit would enable him to earn enough to 
do this. Up until this point, Mr Fs account had seemingly been steadily earning 
profits and he had no cause for concern. Unaware that this was one of the common 
deceptive tactics of scammers, as communicated by Visa to its acquirers and 
issuers in 2017, he unwittingly agreed to make a final payment. I do not think he 
could have foreseen the risk that the company he was dealing with was a scam and 
the trading account he was viewing was likely to be a simulation.
28. In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the 
basis that Mr F should share blame for what happened.
29. I have considered compensation for distress or inconvenience again as I 
contemplated £250 in my first provisional decision. On reflection, I do not think an 
award for non-financial loss is appropriate in the circumstances. I do think Santander 
attempted to assist Mr F as best as it could when he brought his chargeback claim to 
it. And whilst I think it ought to have acted on potential fraud triggers sooner, Im 
satisfied my proposed settlement fairly and reasonably places Mr F back in the 
position he would have been had it done so. 
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr F did not have anything further to add and accepted the provisional decision. 
Santander disagrees with my provisional decision but has offered to settle the case in 
accordance with it. Whilst Santander did agree to settle the complaint, it raised a number of 
concerns and, for completeness and transparency, I think it appropriate to address those 
here. 
Santander said it had not received a fair adjudication of the issues and we have applied a 
punitive rate of interest on top of the award. It explained why it disagreed with the decision 
and our approach more widely. I have carefully read and digested those submissions in full 
and I summarise the key points below:
1. Our investigator initially upheld the complaint because Santander did not pursue 
Mr Fs chargeback claim after its first presentment failed. Our investigator felt a 
chargeback claim would have succeeded had it been pursued to arbitration, despite 
Mr F being unable to provide evidence specified by the scheme rules and Markets 
Cube defending the claim. 
2. Following Visas confirmation that it would not expect cases without the requisite 
evidence to be pushed to arbitration, we accepted that Santander did not act 
unreasonably in connection with the chargeback. However, we continued to uphold 
the complaint based on Santanders failure to interrupt and challenge the customers 
authorised card payments in a reasonable time. We relied on the 2012 FSA paper on 
investment fraud which referred to it being good industry practice to build up a 
watchlist of scams and perpetrators. The merchant in this case was not subject to an 
FCA or investor alert warning at the time of Mr Fs payments  but we felt Santander 
should still have interrupted the payments due to their unusual frequency and the 
uncharacteristic sums involved. 
3. Santander asked how we had considered the risk-based nature of this guidance 
based on the information available to the industry in 2017/18 and balanced against 
Santanders obligations to honour legitimate card payment journeys to the same 
merchant codes and locations known today as those of bad actors. Data was 
provided to support this point, but the provisional decision does not address it. 4. Santander asked whether it was industry practice in 2018 to conduct real time 
monitoring to interrupt and challenge customers on authorised card transactions to 
try to identify scams to merchants not subject to FCA or other warnings. The decision 
does not address this point. 
5. Santander believes we have incorrectly interpreted the industry guidance of 2017/18. 
It believes it is speculative to suggest that Mr F would not have decided to invest with 
Markets Cube because there was no evidence of him previously being willing to take 
high risks; or that he would have ensured he obtained all the evidence necessary to 
enable him to submit a successful chargeback to recover all the payments. 
6. Santander advised that it would be sending a copy of its disagreements to the FCA. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reconsidered all the evidence and arguments in light of Santanders response in order 
to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Having done 
so, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld  for the reasons that follow:
1. Santander is correct that this complaint was originally upheld on the basis of the 
chargeback claim not being more vigorously pursued through the Visa chargeback 
scheme. Santander is also aware that we engaged with the relevant card schemes  
including Visa  to gain a clear understanding of how they view claims such as 
Mr Fs, along with the options available to card issuers like Santander. 
2. When we engaged with Visa, one of the points it noted was the small volume of 
claims that had succeeded at arbitration based on the relevant code because card 
issuers were not presenting the required evidence. In a recent decision I issued to 
Santander, its customer did have all the required evidence to present a chargeback 
claim under the appropriate binary-options trading reason code. But Santander 
declined to attempt a chargeback because it said that wasnt an option for its 
customer  which wasnt a correct interpretation of the chargeback scheme rules. 
Once Visa clearly explained its approach, we communicated this to Santander and 
other firms, which demonstrates we are being fair and reasonable to all parties, and 
resolving complaints in an open, transparent way. 
3.    DISP Rule 3.6.1 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook states that, The 
Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. This wide remit is 
further clarified in DISP Rule 3.6.4:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, the Ombudsman will take into account:
a. relevant:
i. law and regulations;
ii. regulators rules, guidance and standards;
iii. codes of practice; and
b. (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.4.   We have explained to Santander on numerous occasions why our approach to 
fraud and scams is not inconsistent with the strict legal position; and why it is fair 
and reasonable for a bank or Payment Services Provider (PSP) to take 
reasonable, limited steps to safeguard its customers in line with the prevailing 
regulatory and industry standards at the relevant time (see, for example, paragraph 
13 of my provisional decision, above). That includes taking reasonable steps to 
guard against the risks of money-laundering and terrorism, which have been legal 
requirements for many years now, and long before the events that are the subject-
matter of this dispute. Santander ought to take account of and follow our approach 
in line with its complaint-handling obligations in DISP 1.4. 
5. Santander does not agree it was good industry practice (in 2018) to monitor 
authorised card transactions to merchants not subject to an FCA or international 
warning. 
6.In December 2020, I wrote to Santander, in response to their statement that the BSI 
code didnt apply to card payments in Mr Fs case. I said: The BSI PAS Code 
document under 5.2 Prevention of fraud and financial abuse, specifically 5.2.1 
Design, it states, The organization should ensure that systems and controls to 
prevent known fraud and financial abuse are in place across all channels and 
products including: a) in branch; b) online banking/accounts; c) mobile 
banking/accounts; d) telephone banking/accounts; and e) payment systems, e.g. 
cards, cheques, CHAPS, BACS; and f) ATMs. 
Further along under 8.3.2  minimizing financial loss it states: The organization 
should take immediate action to minimize financial losses and protect the customer 
against further financial harm, tailored to the individuals circumstances, which can 
include: a) stopping any further funds leaving the account to go to the fraudster e.g. 
by stopping cards or ATM withdrawals.
7. Santander were signatories to the BSI code which came into effect on 31 October 
2017. And whilst this is just one example of good practice for firms, the BSI code 
identified a series of fraud triggers that could indicate fraud or financial abuse  which 
were applicable to multiple payment methods, including card payments (as 
referenced above). Amongst other things, these included sudden increased 
spending, withdrawal or payment for a large amount, a payment to a new payee, 
financial activity that matches a known method of fraud or financial abuse. Paragraph 
16 of my provisional decision notes that most of these indicators are present in 
Mr Fs case. 
8. Santander has previously advised (in relation to Mr Fs case) that in 2018, insufficient 
information was known about the activity profiles, distribution channels, 
complexity/volume of typical binary options transactions, the typical operating 
environment of merchants etc such that it was the practice of the industry in 2018 to 
have real time transaction monitoring controls in place on card transactions, which 
would  have identified Mr Fs transactions to Markets Cube. I refer Santander back to 
paragraph 21 of my provisional decision where I explain the various credible sources 
of information that explicitly referenced the high risks associated with binary options 
investment trading, along with fraud risks as early as 2016. By 2017, the FCA had 
also given warnings about binary options investments along with the scams that 
occur. Visa had also updated its global rules to address specific claims relating to 
binary options trading and provided supplementary information to card issuers and 
merchant acquirers about the deceptive conduct used by mainly unregulated and 
unlicensed merchants. 9. In January 2018, the sale and marketing of binary options were brought within the 
FCAs remit where it explained companies not regulated by it were likely a scam. 
10. In reference to the FSAs 2012 paper, in its opening, the FSA stated; Firms 
authorised by us have a regulatory duty to counter the risk they might be used to 
further financial crime. It set out examples of good and poor practice as non-
exhaustive guidance to firms. The real time payment screening against a well-
formulated watch list wasnt the only example of good practice for firms to set their 
automated payment screening. Good practice also included the quality of alerts, 
involving investment fraud subject matter experts to set monitoring rules, 
transaction monitoring rules designed to detect specific types of investment fraud 
etc
11.These points are not new as Ive previously written to Santander about them. So, Im 
satisfied that binary-options investment fraud and the nature/pattern of the 
transactions, issues with unregulated and unlicensed merchants mostly operating 
overseas, ought to have been well known to an international bank like Santander. 
12. However, Id also refer Santander to point 16 of my provisional decision where I 
explain that I do not think the first, or second payments ought to have triggered 
automatic blocks. And thats because there was no previous FCA or IOSCO warning 
about Markets Cube. But by the third payment, there were enough indicators that 
something suspicious was happening with Mr Fs normal account operation for 
Santander to have intervened. Whilst Im persuaded that there were indicators that 
Mr F had fallen victim to a binary options investment scam based on the location, 
transaction pattern, merchant category code etc  and it would have been good 
practice for Santander to have subject matter experts setting its monitoring rules to 
look for specific indicators according to its regulator  I didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint 
on this basis. I concluded that Santander didnt need to know, for certain, that Mr F 
had fallen victim to a binary options scam; it just needed to be aware that this was a 
common scam and be monitoring for unusual account activity  and Santander 
already had systems in place to monitor for unusual or suspicious activity. 
 
13. Santander said that I failed to comment on the data it provided when considering how 
it balances its obligations to process genuine payments in accordance with its 
customers instructions and monitor for binary options investment fraud. When 
Santander supplied this data, it was marked confidential and I was asked not to 
share it as part of the customers file. It went on to request that to the extent 
necessary, my decision should capture its point in generic terms. In order to be fair to 
both sides, its very difficult for me to comment generically on specific data provided 
by Santander. I also didnt find it to be supportive of the point Santander attempted to 
make, hence I didnt deem it necessary to comment. However, as Santander felt it 
was important, I will comment on it.   
14. In point 8 of my provisional findings, I explain that Visa required unregulated and 
unlicensed binary options merchants to re-code under a high-risk gambling code 
from 1 December 2018. The data Santander supplied was from 2020 and included 
data referencing merchant category code 6211 which ought not to be applicable to 
unregulated and unlicensed binary options traders after 1 December 2018. Any 
merchant operating under code 6211, ought to have the correct licensing. So it would 
have been more relevant to provide an overview of a date-range specific to the 
period of Mr Fs transactions when unregulated and unlicensed merchants operated 
under this particular code. 15. Santander also used other merchant category codes to support its position but 
again, the date range wasnt relevant to Mr Fs complaint. Of the transactions it 
reviewed, Santander only identified a small percentage of a large data set of cases 
being ill-natured/fraudulent. However, Santander could not explain how many 
customers within the data set it provided had requested chargebacks on investment 
grounds, without reporting the claim as fraudulent.  
16. Id like to refer Santander to its final response to Mr F where it addressed his 
complaint as a chargeback issue, not fraud, when he in fact reported he had been 
scammed. Its notes characterised Mr Fs complaint as a card payment dispute, not 
fraud. So if its data wouldnt have recognised Mr Fs claim as ill-natured/fraud, it is 
arguable that Santander is not accurately capturing the data it requires to suggest 
that a disproportionate number of genuine payments are made without concern. To 
conclude on this point, I didnt find the data provided by Santander materially altered 
my conclusions on this particular case. 
17. When making a determination, we do so on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, I am required to conclude what most likely occurred. It is not a speculative 
finding as Santander has suggested but is based on the relative weightiness of the 
evidence presented by both parties. I found what we know of Mr F to be relevant to 
the likelihood of him taking a different course of action if warned by his trusted bank 
that he may have fallen victim to a scam. I found it unlikely that Mr F would have 
been willing to risk all of his money in the light of such a warning. The monies were 
funds he needed in the short term for his tuition fees. I didnt find that he had 
previously made large transactions or high-risk investments; and Santander 
presented no evidence to prove otherwise. 
18. It remains my view that if his bank had given him more insight, which it was familiar 
with as the financial professional, then Mr F, as a layperson, would have acted 
differently. There was a high likelihood of a successful chargeback claim if the correct 
evidence were gathered and presented under the relevant code for binary option 
trading disputes. So, I would have expected Santander (as the expert) to have 
assisted Mr F with explaining what was required by Visa at the earliest opportunity. In 
my view, that opportunity arose at or shortly after the third transaction. If the bank 
had given Mr F a timely warning, a successful chargeback claim was more likely than 
not. Owing to Santanders omission, by the time Mr F realised hed fallen victim to a 
scam (after his final payment), it was too late for him to gather the evidence required 
to present a successful chargeback claim. That is the basis for upholding this 
complaint and asking Santander to refund all payments, not just the ones from 
payment three onwards. 
19. On the question of interest, 8% simple is not a punitive rate, as alleged, but simply 
represents a notional average cost of consumer borrowing to cover someone being 
without their money as a result of wrongdoing for which we are holding a firm liable; 
it does not represent actual loss of interest, which may now be zero on a current 
account or less than 1% on a savings account. Many consumers have to pay much 
higher interest in order to borrow, e.g. via credit cards or short-term loans. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and before, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I 
therefore require Santander UK Bank plc to refund to Mr F all his stolen payments (totalling 
£5,700). This was a current account, so Santander should add interest to that sum (less any tax 
properly deductible) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the respective dates of 
payments (to begin from 27 April 2018 as this represents the date Santander ought to have 
warned Mr F) to the date of refund. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
  
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman