DRN-2978278
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly withdrew its legal 
expenses insurance cover even though it had previously agreed to cover her claim.
What happened
Mrs S has a legal expenses insurance policy which provides cover for the cost of taking 
legal action or obtaining legal advice. The policy is underwritten by Amtrust. For ease, any 
reference to Amtrust includes the actions of its agents.
The policy was taken out in October 2018.
In the four years prior, Mrs S had made several reasonable adjustment 
requests to her former employer.
In November 2018, Mrs S went on long term sick  she said her former 
employer failed to make reasonable adjustments for her disability, and so she 
was unable to work.
In May 2019, Mrs S raised a grievance about her former employer.
The outcome was given in September 2019  which Mrs S appealed. When 
her employer didnt deal with her appeal, she sought legal advice  at which 
time she realised she had a legal expenses cover.
Amtrust confirmed cover in December 2019.
In January 2020, Mrs S started legal proceedings against her former employer 
on the grounds of discrimination and unfair dismissal.
Amtrust subsequently withdrew cover on the basis the dispute arose 
before the policy started.
Amtrust referenced the employment tribunal form (ET1) which says requests 
for reasonable adjustments began four years prior to the policy starting. It 
said Mrs S had placed significant weight on these events to support her 
claim, and so it was satisfied a dispute arose before October 2018.
Amtrust told Mrs S to contact her previous legal expenses insurer to see if 
she had cover elsewhere.
Mrs S disagrees. She says the incident which gave rise to her legal dispute was 
the way in which the grievance was dealt with - which was after the policy was 
taken out.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Amtrust had acted unfairly in declining the claim and 
agreed the insured event was when Mrs S employer failed to deal with the 
grievance properly. She was satisfied the history of what had happened 
between Mrs S and her former employer was provided in the ET1 for context 
only.
Because Amtrust disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
On 29 July 2021, I issued a provisional decision. It said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded to reach a different outcome to the investigator, 
and Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether the insured incident occurred before or after the 
policy started. The starting point is the policy terms which set out the terms of the 
contract between Amtrust and Mrs S.
Ive also taken in to account the requirements set by the Regulator, which include that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a 
claim. I have considered whether Amtrust dealt with the claim fairly and in line with the 
policy terms, and whether it unreasonably rejected the claim.
The policy defines an insured incident as:
The incident or the first of a series of incidents which may lead to a claim under 
this insurance. Only one insured incident shall be deemed to have arisen from 
all causes of action, incidents or events that related by cause or time.
Amtrust argues that because Mrs S made requests for reasonable adjustments in the 
four years prior to the policy being taken out that this, in conjunction with Mrs S taking 
sick leave in November 2018 following her former employers failure to implement 
reasonable adjustments - satisfies it that the insured incident occurred before the 
policy started.
Ive reviewed the employment tribunal form and outcome letter of Mrs Ss grievance. In 
the ET1 Mrs S has included a lot of detail about the difficulties she experienced in 
having adjustments implemented. The key consideration for me when looking at this is 
whether how the grievance was handled can be traced back to an incident(s) which 
precedes the policy start date.
The following points are taken from the ET1 form:
Point 3  The claimant contends that she encountered difficulties 
obtaining reasonable adjustments with her employment [] the requests 
were made on a continuing basis and spanned over a four-year period.
Point 5  The claimant contends that following each request for adjustments, 
she would have to escalate the matter to senior management in order for the 
request to be handled and dealt with seriously []
Of particular note is:
Point 17  Due to the considerable delays, the Claimant raised a formal 
grievance in May 2019. []From reading this, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mrs S was in dispute with her 
former employer about how theyd handled her requests for reasonable adjustments 
before she took out the policy. I say this because: theres reference to requests being 
made in the four years prior; that Mrs S had to escalate the requests for them to be 
dealt with  which is indicative of a dispute; it was the delays in implementing these 
requests which led her to raise a formal grievance.
Mrs S contends its her former employers failure to deal with her greivance properly 
which prompted her to take legal actiom but Im not persuaded. Instead, I think its fair 
to say that had her requests been implemeted without difficulty, she woulndt have 
needed to raise a grievance, because put simply, there wouldnt have been a dispute. 
But instead, the apparent continual struggle shes had is what culminated in her 
bringing a grievance against her employer. And based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
the dispute which formed the basis of the grievance can be traced back to before the 
policy was in existence.
While I acknowledge Mrs S has said the difficulties she experienced were provided in 
the ET1 form for context, given her claim centres on how shes been treated by her 
former employer  specifically in relation to her requests for reasonable adjustments 
Im not persuaded it can be considered background information, I think its been 
included because its pertinent to the claim shes made  this was a series of related 
events. And those events date back to before she took out the policy. Indeed, Mrs S 
claimed against her former employer for constructive dismissal on the basis of a breach 
of trust and confidence, and the examples of this breach included:
a. Persisting delays and failure to implement reasonable adjustments 
for my disability spanning over four years
So these incidents formed part of her claim. On balance, Im more persuaded the 
insured incident preceded the inception of the policy. As such, Amtrust has acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions by withdrawing cover and I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mrs S didnt have legal expenses cover in place prior to this policy, 
and so theres no value in directing her to a previous provider.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Im currently minded to not uphold this complaint.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Ive summarised Mrs S response below.
Mrs S said she requested reasonable adjustments following a medical diagnosis in 
2013  some requests were agreed, others needed to be escalated to senior staff 
members. 
But she says none of the requests gave rise to a legal dispute and that she was able 
to continue fulfilling her role.
Mrs S said it was once she returned from maternity leave on 11 August 2018, and 
having then been in work for ten weeks, that she had to request further adjustments.
She said it was her employers handling of these requests which led her to raise a 
grievance.  And that the legal dispute arose when the grievance was declined, and 
appeal process not followed. Mrs S said she fulfilled the conditions of the policy by notifying Amtrust of what she 
considered to be the legal problem and that she may require assistance. 
Mrs S considers that Amtrust should be responsible for the legal costs she incurred 
during the period it had agreed cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs S further points. Although Mrs S has said the previous requests for 
reasonable adjustments were ultimately agreed to and didnt give rise to a legal dispute, I 
remain unpersuaded that these should be looked at in isolation. Instead, I think they form 
part of the bigger picture and I say this because the ET1 form says Mrs S had to escalate 
each request to senior management over a period spanning four years  so prior to the 
policy inception date. 
I did, however, consider that Mrs S point in respect of Amtrust being responsible for legal 
costs she incurred once shed been told cover had been agreed needed to be looked into 
further. So, I put this to Amtrust. 
Amtrust said it sent the terms of business on the same day it was confirmed by Mrs S 
solicitor that the insured event did not pre-date the policy, but that no costs were authorised. 
It said upon receipt of the ET1 form on 13 January 2020 it became apparent that Mrs S had 
relied on incidents which occurred prior to the inception of the policy. So, it requested further 
information from the solicitor on 14 January 2020, which it said confirmed the insured event 
occurred before the policy started. It says it sent the terms of business because it was told 
the event happened after the policy started - so, it doesnt think its responsible for the costs 
Mrs S incurred during the time it had agreed to legal cover.
Having considered this further, along with the documentation and correspondence from the 
time  I dont think its reasonable to ask Amtrust to cover these costs and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at what was said to Mrs S in respect of costs (when the terms of business were 
agreed) to see if Amtrust led her to believe these were covered from then on in. I note the 
terms of business letter, dated 23 December 2019, says:
The insurance only covers costs incurred with our prior consent. Any costs incurred 
without our authorisation will not be covered under the insurance.
Im satisfied this makes it clear that costs would need to be approved. So, Ive looked at 
whether approval was given for the legal costs Mrs S incurred during this time. 
I can see that on 3 January 2020, Mrs S solicitor requested authorisation for the costs to 
prepare pleadings for the tribunal the following week. Its apparent that on receipt of this, 
Amtrust had concerns as to whether it was able to approve the costs and continue providing 
cover. 
It requested further information from Mrs S solicitor to determine this and escalated the 
matter internally. However, prior to Amtrust reaching a conclusion on this matter, a meeting 
with Counsel went ahead and the claim was submitted to the tribunal. On receipt of the ET1 
form  and it showing events had occurred before the policy started - Amtrust subsequently 
withdraw cover. I havent seen evidence to persuade me that Amtrust told Mrs S (or her 
solicitor) that the legal costs had been authorised, and so I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Amtrust to pay these. Furthermore, even if Amtrust had authorised these costs, this was based on it having been 
given incorrect information as to when the insured event first occurred. I think its more likely 
than not that if Amtrust had been made aware at the start of the claim that the events pre-
dated the policy inception date, it wouldnt have offered cover. And so, Mrs S wouldnt have 
been entitled to reclaim these costs under the policy.
Ive thought about whether Mrs S would have acted differently had she known these legal 
costs werent going to be covered but, Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that she would 
have. I say this because Mrs S hasnt said she wouldnt have pursued legal action had she 
known the costs were covered. Im aware that Mrs S continued with her employment claim  
shes explained that shes incurred significant costs  and she did so in the knowledge that 
her legal expenses claim was being defended by Amtrust and that there was no guarantee 
these costs would be recouped. So, on balance, I dont think Mrs S would have acted 
differently had she known the legal costs wouldnt be covered.
I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs S but for the reasons set out above  and those in my 
provisional decision  I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman