DRN-2804838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain they were given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax, referred to as the business. 
They say they were advised to take more risk than was reasonable and as a result have 
suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
In 2006, Mr and Mrs W were advised to invest £40,000 into a Personal Investment Plan 
(PIP). At the time it was recorded:
Mr and Mrs W were married, and in their 50s. Mr W was retired, with a £541 monthly 
pension income, and Mrs W was working as a cashier, with an income of £702 a 
month. 
Although they had a net monthly disposable income of £143, they had no financial 
dependents or debts. 
Although they had no previous investment experience, their attitude to risk was 
confirmed as cautious/medium risk, and they were advised to invest in the 
Managed Income Fund. 
In 2007, Mr W (only) was advised to invest a further £5,250 into the PIP. It was recorded that 
their total cash assets had reduced to £84,047, comprised of the PIP worth £42,547, and 
cash deposit worth £41,500. 
Between 2012 and 2019, Mr and Mr W also received an income of around £21,000. In late 
2020, they surrendered the PIP and received around £27,000. 
In due course they complained to the business. They said they were aware that the 
investment carried risk but couldnt understand why theyd lost so much money. 
The business partly upheld the complaint. In short, it said that the advice to invest in the PIP 
was suitable and that it carried a risk that matched Mr and Mrs Ws attitude to risk. However, 
it felt it didnt provide suitable advice on the cash reserve in 2007, and therefore advised 
them to invest too much.  
The business having carried out a redress calculation  using the average bond rates 
published by the Bank of England  found that the PIP outperformed the alternative savings. 
Therefore, there was no compensation to pay. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. In summary, he said:
Performance of an investment isnt something that we look at, as its influenced by 
the stockmarket. 
In 2006, Mr and Mrs W had capacity to invest. They had a fixed monthly income, a 
surplus non-disposable income and no debts to pay. So, they were in a position to 
invest a lump sum for the medium to long term. 
Mr and Mrs W were provided with the Illustration and Key Features Document (KFD) 
 which made clear the charge of 1.25%. On balance its more likely than not that the 
charges were discussed with them. 
They met with the adviser twice and had enough time to decide whether (or not) to 
proceed with the recommendation.  
The investment didnt carry too much risk for Mr and Mrs W. 
The Managed Investment Fund had an asset mix of 49.1% in equities, 31% in bonds, 
19.2% in property and 0.7% in cash. So, given their (assessed) attitude to risk, the 
fund didnt carry more risk than was reasonable for them to take with roughly 38% of 
their total savings. 
Although Mr and Mrs W are disappointed with the performance of their investment, 
its worth noting that due to Covid-19, the 2020 stockmarket went through one of the 
biggest UK stockmarket declines in history. This was a time when funds lost almost 
50% of their value, and the FTSE100 index alone lost 32% of its value in one month. 
Nevertheless, because the stockmarket fluctuation is driven by a number of factors, 
and there are no guarantees on how an investment might perform, fund performance 
isnt something that our service would consider as a complaint point. And not unless 
an investment was guaranteed to provide a certain return and then didnt.  
In terms of the cash reserves, Mr and Mrs W had £104,790 in savings with the 
business, from which they were advised to invest £40,000. This left the them with 
£62,790, roughly 62% of their funds.
The subsequent advice in 2007 to invest another £5,250 was unsuitable. Hes not 
persuaded that Mr W shouldve been advised to make any further contribution into 
the PIP. 
Their cash reserves were further reduced and given their previous investment it 
wasnt suitable for them to have any further exposure to risk-based investment. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, they remain 
unhappy with the performance of the investment and Mrs W said that some of their savings 
were earmarked and so werent just available for emergencies or unforeseeable 
circumstances. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reason. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs W say, Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation to invest in the PIP was unsuitable. However, I agree 
that Mr W ought not to have been advised to invest a further £5,250 a year later. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs W and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that the 2006 
recommendation to invest £40,000 in the PIP was unsuitable. 
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr and Mrs W to arrive at the conclusion 
that they were cautious/medium risk investors. I note it was out of a set of available options 
for Cautious, Cautious/Medium, Medium, Medium/Adventurous, and Adventurous, akin 
to a score of two out of five on a risk scale. I note their answers indicated that they were 
willing to take a risk with their investment in order to make a gain and receive an income, 
and were aware that their investments could go up or down. I note that a cautious/medium 
risk investor was described by the business as follows:
You are looking to invest for long-term growth/income and are prepared to accept 
investment into areas, including corporate bonds, that are linked to the stock market, 
however you wish to reduce the potential amount and frequency by which the value of the 
investment may go up and down. You understand and accept that by reducing the potential 
risks you also reduce the potential gains and accept on final encashment you may get back 
less than you invested.
Given Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances, I dont think that was unreasonable given 
their objectives. Im also satisfied that they were made aware of the general risks involved, 
i.e. that they might get less than they put in. 
I note the business suggests that the Managed Income Fund  which was a 
cautious/medium investment  broadly matched Mr and Mrs Ws attitude to risk. On the face 
of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to disagree with this conclusion. I note the fund 
had a large focus on UK companies, investment grade UK and European bonds, property 
and cash which broadly met their objectives.  
In any case, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W took more risk than was reasonable for 
them in the circumstances. Im mindful that the fund makeup although invested in equites 
and property, was also invested in corporate bonds and cash to balance the exposure to 
risk.  
That notwithstanding, I should make clear that Im not specifically looking at whether Mr and 
Mrs W were cautious/medium risk investors or whether the recommendation was. Im 
considering if the recommendations were generally suitable for them. Notwithstanding the 
points made by the Mr and Mrs W, its not for us to risk rate the funds. In this instance the 
funds were classed as presenting a medium/cautious risk  suitable for a medium/cautious 
risk investor  Ive no reason, given the business explanation, to think this was incorrect. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W had no investment experience, but on balance, Im satisfied the 
recommendation met their objective for capital growth and an income, and that they were 
willing to take a risk  with a portion of their money  to achieve that objective. Im unable to 
say that the recommendation didnt meet their needs, or that they werent in a position to take a medium/cautious risk  on a scale that goes up to adventurous  with a portion of 
their money. 
I also dont think that in 2006 Mr and Mrs W invested too much of their available capital. I 
note they invested roughly 32% of their available savings  still leaving around £63,000 on 
deposit in case of emergencies or unforeseeable circumstances. Im aware that their total 
assets, including their home and £104,790 cash, was worth £188,790 at the time, and theyd 
put some money away for emergency contingencies and planned expenditure. Even if they 
hadnt put contingency money aside, I still dont think theyd invested too much money.  
I note that Mr and Mrs W complained because they were worried about making a loss, not 
because it was unaffordable or because they didnt have enough cash reserve. Im mindful 
that Mrs W says their savings were earmarked, but despite what she says, Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that this was the case and that they wouldnt have access to the funds. 
On balance Im satisfied that they were provided with the policy documentation including the 
Illustration and the KFD so were broadly aware of the risks and the charges involved. In the 
circumstances I think its unlikely that they simply wouldnt have known this. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs W were given any guarantees about the 
level of return. And just because they didnt receive a better return upon surrender  during a 
global pandemic  doesnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable. In any event, I agree 
with the investigator that the performance of the investment isnt something that our service 
is able to look at. 
The above notwithstanding, on balance I dont think Mr W shouldve been advised to invest 
another £5,250 a year later. Thats said I dont think the business redress calculation is 
unreasonable. In the circumstances and on balance, as Mr W was found to be better off 
investing in the PIP, Im not persuaded that he and or Mrs W are entitled to any 
compensation.    
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman