DRN-2560463
The complaint
Ms I is unhappy with the amount of compensation Santander Cards UK Limited (Santander) 
has offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out alongside her credit card.
What happened
Ms I opened her credit card account in December 2006. The records from Santander 
indicate Ms I later took out a PPI policy to cover the account, over the telephone, in February 
2008. 
In November 2009 Ms I got into some financial difficulties and stopped making the required 
repayments to her account and the PPI was cancelled. Some small payments were made to 
the account following this but from December 2010 no further payments were made and the 
account was closed with an outstanding balance of £2,748.34.
Ms I complained to Santander that the PPI was mis-sold. Santander agreed to uphold her 
complaint and offered her £556.79 in compensation. Ms I isnt happy with the offer. She feels 
the compensation should be more.
Ms I says a claim should have been paid by the policy to clear the debt when she was 
unable to make payments. So she wants the amount of the debt outstanding, that she 
believes should have been paid by the PPI policy, paid as compensation. She has also 
indicated she wants compensation for the stress and psychological injury caused by having 
to pay the debts herself.
Our adjudicator said what Santander had offered was fair. Ms I remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am not considering whether a claim should have been paid to Ms I when 
the PPI was active on the account. Nor can I consider if Santander acted in a reasonable 
way when Ms I got into financial difficulties. As Ms I has already been advised, these issues 
need to be taken up separately.
Santander has agreed to uphold Ms Is s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Therefore, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking 
at what is fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold the business needs, as far as possible, to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in if they had never taken out the policy. To 
do this, in this case, Santander has offered as compensation to pay to Ms I the total costs of 
the PPI premiums being added to her account. 
I have looked at the calculation Santander carried out to work out the compensation and the 
evidence supporting this. Santander has full data information about Ms Is credit card, 
including full information from statements to show her spending and what charges were 
made to the account. 
I can see from the statement information that PPI was charged to the account from February 
2008 to November 2009. The statement information provided shows all spending on the 
account and no premiums were charged to the account before or after these dates. During 
the time the PPI was active the total premiums charged were £488.11 and the interest, at the 
card rate, caused by these premiums was £68.88. In total this came to £556.79 and this was 
the total cost of the PPI charged to the account. 
Compensatory interest is paid when a consumer is out of pocket for the costs of the PPI, that 
is when then have repaid some or all of the costs of the PPI charged on the account. But 
Ms I never repaid the full balance on the credit card so was not out of pocket for the PPI 
costs. Therefore, no compensatory is due on the facts of this particular case.
It is considered the fairest approach for the consumer is to assume when payments are 
made to the account that the last thing paid off a credit card account balance is the cost of 
the PPI. This is because whilst the PPI cost is part of the account balance, it is incurring card 
rate interest. If a small percentage of the PPI was taken as paid off as part of the monthly 
payments, then that percentage amount would not have compound interest charged on it 
any longer but have compensatory interest paid on it. But the compensatory interest is at a 
rate of 8% simple per year, which is far less than the compound interest at the card rate. 
So a consumer will get more compensation by using the card rate interest on the costs of the 
PPI for the longer period, until the balance is cleared. In Ms Is case this would mean the 
interest amount of £68.88 would be reduced if 8% compensatory interest were calculated to 
replace the compound interest on a small portion of the PPI that might be deemed paid off, 
whilst she was making her payments. 
Overall, I think what Santander has offered to pay Ms I as compensation is fair as it refunds 
all the costs of the PPI. Santander has indicated in its offer letter that it will make this 
payment to a bank account or by cheque, whatever Ms I prefers. It has therefore offered to 
pay the £556.79 directly to Ms I. It has not proposed to deduct the compensation from the 
debt that remains on the account, to remove the PPI in that debt that was never paid. So 
Santanders offer means Ms I may be getting back the costs of the PPI which were never 
actually paid. 
It is unclear if Santander has actually made the payment of the compensation to Ms I. If not 
then it should do so, as stated in its offer letter, by bank transfer of cheque to Ms I.
Ms I has also indicated she should receive compensation for stress caused by the way 
Santander acted when she was having financial problems. Here I am only looking at the mis-
sale of the PPI and what detriment that may have caused Ms I. I cannot see the mis-sale of 
the PPI was the direct cause of Ms Is financial problems and the stress these financial 
problems may have caused. Therefore, I am not directing any further amount for distress 
and inconvenience should be paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied the compensation of £556.79 that 
Santander Cards UK Limited has offered to Ms I for the mis-sold PPI is fair and this amount 
should be paid directly to Ms I if payment has not already been made. I am not upholding 
this complaint that any more compensation is due. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman