DRN-2895979
The complaint
Mr C complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited avoided his motor insurance policy 
and refused to pay his claim.
Mr C is represented by his solicitor, Mr S, but for ease Ill refer to statements made by Mr S 
as being made by Mr C.
What happened
Mr C says his brother took out a car insurance policy with Calpe on his behalf. He applied for 
the policy through a price comparison site and the purchase was subsequently completed 
during a telephone call with a broker. When his car was stolen, Mr C tried to make a claim. 
Calpe said hed answered the question incorrectly when asked about his motoring offences. 
And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which it 
said entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim, and keep the premium hed already paid. 
When Mr C brought his complaint to us, he told us he had to re-sit his driving test after his 
licence had been endorsed with points. He explained that his brother assumed the points 
had been removed after Mr C had retaken his test. Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs 
complaint should be upheld. They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and 
agreed it was deliberate or reckless and that Calpe were entitled to avoid his policy and 
retain the premium hed paid. They thought it was unreasonable for Mr C or his brother to 
assume they didnt need to declare his driving offence because he had retaken his test. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says: 
His brother had applied for the policy on his behalf because at the time he was 
supporting his partner. 
His brother didnt think he had to declare the points on his licence because Mr C had 
retaken his test and reapplied for his licence. 
He informed Calpe of his motoring offence when a third-party claim was made 
against him earlier in the year. As the policy continued after this, he was under the 
impression it was fine and had Calpe told him he would have sought cover 
elsewhere.
By settling the third partys claim when it was aware of the misrepresentation, it had 
affirmed the policy and should therefore pay the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached.
Affirming the risk
For me to find that Calpe affirmed the risk, I must be satisfied it was aware of the 
misrepresentation, and still chose the settle the third-party claim made earlier in the year 
when it didnt have to. However, in Mr Cs case I find it would still have been held 
responsible for dealing with the claim even though it was aware of a potential 
misrepresentation. This is because, according to the Road Traffic Act 1988, as the insurer of 
the vehicle at the time, Caple is required to settle any unsatisfied judgement a third party 
gets against the policyholder. 
I understand Mr C told Calpes investigator he had points on his licence. So, I accept Calpe 
was aware of the potential misrepresentation, but I think it would have ultimately had a legal 
responsibility to settle the third partys claim whether it avoided the policy or not. As such, I 
dont find that by settling the third partys claim it affirmed the risk and could no longer avoid 
the policy.
Calpe said it asked for Mr Cs license because it wanted to confirm the details of his driving 
offence before taking action on the misrepresentation. I dont think its request was an 
unreasonable one. It later sent Mr C notice that the policy would be cancelled because he 
hadnt provided the information it asked for, but Mr C said he had lost his license. Once 
Calpe received his license it avoided the policy. Its unfortunate Mr C had cause to make 
another claim when his car was stolen and before he provided his license. But I dont find 
Calpe was responsible for the delay in taking action on the misrepresentation.
As such, Im satisfied Calpe could still investigate the misrepresentation and decide to act on 
it when it did. Ive considered whether its decision to avoid the policy and decline the claim 
was fair. I think it was and Ill explain why.  
Misrepresentation
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Calpe thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose his motoring offence during his online application, and during the telephone 
call in which the purchase was completed. Mr C says his brother completed the application 
process on his behalf. But whether it was Mr C or his brother who applied for the policy, they 
still had to take reasonable care not to misrepresent information. 
Calpe hasnt been able to provide evidence of the information Mr Cs brother provided online 
or what was asked. But Ive listened to the two telephone calls his brother had with the 
broker before purchasing the policy. During the initial call the agent asked if any of the 
named drivers had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, 
disqualifications or bans in the last five year or any pending. I find a clear and unambiguous question was asked by the agent. And I must agree with 
Calpe here, as Mr C and his brother were both aware of his motoring offence at the time, I 
dont think his brother took reasonable care when he answered and said no. 
Calpe has explained that if Mr Cs motoring offence had been disclosed, it would have 
accepted the risk, but would have charged him a higher premium. This means Im satisfied 
Mr Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Calpe thinks the failure to declare the motoring offence when asked was deliberate or 
reckless because Mr C would have been fully aware of his offences when he was applying 
for the insurance.
A misrepresentation is considered reckless or deliberate if the consumer:
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether 
it was untrue or misleading; and 
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
I think the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, and Im minded to agree with what 
our investigator said in their view. Mr Cs brother was clearly asked whether any drivers have 
been banned from driving in the last five years. So, even if I accepted Mr Cs argument that 
he thought the points werent there anymore, I cant ignore his brother knew about the 
driving ban. I dont think it was reasonable for him to assume he didnt need to mention the 
offence because Mr C had retaken his driving test and reapplied for his license. 
During the initial telephone call, the agent informs Mr Cs brother there was an undisclosed 
claim against a named driver on the policy, and this meant hed pay a higher premium. The 
agent also explains that usually, when a claim hasnt been disclosed, they wouldnt offer a 
broker discount, and this would make the premium even higher. His brother apologised and 
explained to the agent that he had forgotten to mention the claim earlier. I think this should 
have been enough to prompt Mr Cs brother to consider whether other information hadnt 
been disclosed. And at the very least, prompted him to ask if the motoring offence was 
something he needed to mention. 
He called the following day to complete the purchase, I think this was a further opportunity to 
confirm with Mr C if the offence was something he needed to disclose. So, Im not convinced 
Mr Cs brother cared whether the information he provided was untrue or relevant to the 
insurer. Ultimately Mr C as the policyholder and his brother acting on his behalf, should have 
known his driving ban was something Calpe would have wanted to know about, but they 
failed to disclose it at the inception of the policy.  
In light of this, Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation should be treated as reckless. As such, 
Ive looked at the actions Calpe can take in accordance with CIDRA. And it entitles the 
insurer to avoid the policy and keep the premiums. If theres a claim the insurer doesnt have 
to pay it. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Calpe was entitled to avoid Mr Cs policy. And this means that  in 
effect  it can treat his policy as never existing. So Calpe does not have to deal with his 
claim following the theft of his car. I understand Mr C is struggling to pay the finance on his 
car, so I know this will be particularly disappointing to him, but I think Calpes decision was 
reasonable and I wont tell it to do anything differently.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman