DRN-1989100
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC. She says that the associated current account 
she took out with her mortgage in 2002 has an incorrect balance.   
What happened
Mrs L took out a mortgage with her late mother Mrs K, in 2002. The mortgage was taken out 
with another lender which was later transferred to Barclays in 2007. The mortgage was 
taken out on an interest only basis and had current account facilities attached to it.
In 2015, Mrs L brought a complaint to our service. She complained about various aspects of 
her current account (ending 2086) in relation to insurance payments, arrears charges and 
the fact that she disputed the amount she owed on her current account. 
We addressed all complaint points for Mrs L, but we didnt make any findings about her 
current account balance. So, it has been agreed that we can investigate this now. She 
wanted Barclays to refund all charges on her account and she thinks that any debt she had 
on her mortgage shouldnt have been reflected in her current account. Mrs L believes that 
the balance on her current account should have shown as a credit balance and not a debit 
balance and she never withdrew any money from this account.
When Barclays sent their final response letter in 2015, they explained they didnt believe 
there was an error in the outstanding balance on her current account ending 2086. They said 
when the current account was transferred from the previous lender to them, it was allocated 
with a new account number.
With regards to the insurance premiums, Barclays said that Mrs Ls premiums were paid 
from her previous account (with the other lender) from account ending 2005. They said they 
transferred £16,377.61 from her account ending 2086 into account ending 5003. They 
explained in order to accommodate the overdrawn amount, the overdraft limit on account 
ending 2086 was increased to £50,323.79 at that time.
Barclays said their current account statements are designed to show the difference of the 
amount that is overdrawn against the overdraft limit on the account. So they said in this 
situation, it showed as excess funds when in fact the account was overdrawn but still had 
available credit up to the overdraft limit. 
They offered Mrs L £200 for inconvenience that was caused to her, but Mrs L remained 
unhappy with what they said. This is when she brought the complaint to our service in 2015. 
So as Ive explained, we will look at the issues surrounding the current account balance as 
we didnt make a finding on that part in 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays have told us that due to the passage of time, they havent been able to provide us 
with all the supporting evidence and transactions. So I have had to base my decision on 
what I think is likely to have happened, based on the information that I do have from both 
parties.
Mrs Ls accounts were transferred to Barclays in 2007. She believes there was an error 
when the accounts were transferred which has impacted her balance on her current account. 
Ive looked at the statements for the current account that Mrs L held with the previous lender. 
I can see that there were two current accounts which were linked to the mortgage account. 
One account was ending 5005 and the other was 2086  which is the account that Mrs L is 
disputing.
Ive looked at the statements from June and November/December 2005 and I can see that 
the balance on account ending 2086 increased from £18,497.91 to £49,348.39. I think based 
on this and the dates in question, it appears that Mrs L owed this amount with the previous 
lender before the accounts were transferred to Barclays in 2007.
Mrs L says she never withdrew any money from her current account. Barclays said that an 
amount of £16,377.61 was transferred from her current account ending 2086 to the account 
ending 5003 in order to repay the overdrawn balance of that account.
Ive looked through the statement dated August 2005 and I can see that there was an 
outstanding balance of £16,468.07 for account ending 5003 and an outstanding amount of 
£17,942.78 for account ending 2086.
The statements from September 2005 show three cash withdrawals which totalled 
£25,377.61. One of these cash withdrawals was for £16,377.61. Because of these cash 
withdrawals, the balance on account ending 2086 increased to £43,875.
Barclays sent us contact notes for August 2005 and the notes suggest that Barclays agreed 
with either Mrs L or Mrs K, to transfer £16,377.61 from account ending 2086 to account 
ending 5003. The notes suggest that one of the account holders, wanted to transfer the 
funds over but Barclays advised them that their systems were down  so if they wanted to do 
this, they would need to visit a branch. Its not clear from these notes who Barclays were 
dealing with  but the notes are clear that this transfer had been agreed and completed.
We asked Barclays to provide the statements for account ending 5003 to confirm the money 
had been transferred to that account, but due the passage of time they have been unable to 
do so. However, based on the contact notes and the statements I have seen, its more likely 
than not that the amount of £16,377.61 was transferred to that account. I have no reason to 
doubt it otherwise.
As these withdrawals had taken place, the outstanding balance on account ending 2086 
increased. I havent seen anything from the statements or the contact notes that would make 
me think that something had gone wrong, or that the outstanding balance was incorrect.Barclays have told us that the current account is currently overdrawn by approximately 
£47,000. This is a significant amount outstanding which I appreciate is worrying for Mrs L. 
But I cant agree that the balance on the account is incorrect.
So, while I empathise with the situation that Mrs L finds herself in, especially with her 
ongoing health conditions, I cant say that Barclays have done anything wrong.
I think the £200 that Barclays have offered Mrs L for the inconvenience caused is 
reasonable. I therefore wont be asking them to do anything further.
Mrs L has another complaint with us where she is disputing some of the transactions on the 
mortgage current account. This will be looked at separately.
We also have another complaint for Mrs L about her mortgage which is linked to this current 
account. We told Mrs L to keep an open dialogue with Barclays and to work with them to 
agree a way forward. We said in that decision that Mrs L may not have a choice now but to 
sell her property to repay the outstanding balance on her mortgage. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic related Government restrictions, the regulator issues 
guidelines. Current guidelines say lenders cant take or resume possession action until 
November 2020. 
This will give Mrs L a few months to arrange to put her property on the market. Although 
there is a chance that she may not sell her property by then, she should keep Barclays 
informed about the sale. Mrs L should also let Barclays know when she has put the property 
on the market and work with them while the sale goes through. Id expect Barclays to 
continue to treat Mrs L fairly while the sale completes and take into account any further 
guidance from the regulator.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman