DRN-2977263
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that National Savings and Investments (NSI) changed the way 
they advise and pay premium bond winners.
What happened
In September 2020, NSI announced that theyd phase out how they paid winners of premium 
bond prizes. The use of warrants would stop, with the last prize warrants (cheques) being 
sent out in February 2021. In December 2020, they said this would be delayed until the 
Spring of 2021. Winners could also see if theyd won by looking online.
Mrs H and Mr H complain that NSI changed the way that they advise and pay winners of 
premium bond prizes. They dont bank online and arent computer literate. So  they cant 
see if theyve won, or if the winnings have been paid into their bank account. They came to 
this service because Money Mail had advised them to do so.
NSI said this was part of their strategy. Winners would be advised by text message or email. 
And they also needed to add their bank account details by going online. The winners 
warrants would be phased out by Spring 2021. Where a winner hasnt advised bank account 
details, NSI would get in touch with them to help them claim their prize. NSIs terms and 
conditions allowed the changes.
Mrs H and Mr H brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said that this service cant tell 
businesses how to run themselves. NSI had given the required two months notice of the 
change to customers  as they had to.
Mrs H and Mr H asked that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service exists to resolve individual disputes between customers and financial 
businesses. We arent the regulator of them  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
It follows that we cant interfere with the commercial decisions that businesses take  such 
as this one. So  its not for me to tell NSI that they cant change to way they pay out winners 
of premium bond prizes, or how they advise them. Also, NSI have given more than two 
months notice of the changes, so theyve complied with their terms and conditions.
I sympathise with Mrs H and Mr H - they arent computer literate, and dont use online 
banking or the internet  so they cant see if theyve won a prize, or if the winnings have 
been paid into their account. Indeed, they cant advise their bank account details to NSI.
But I would say  Mrs H and Mr H use email. So  NSI will advise them if theyve won by 
email. So  thats OK. And  NSI have said that if customers win and havent advised them 
of bank account details  they will get in touch with customers like Mrs H and Mr H to talk 
them through how to get winnings paid into their bank account. So, while I appreciate what 
Mrs H and Mr H are saying, NSI have considered the position of people like themselves.
And so  while I can see that Mrs H and Mr H are frustrated, I cant say that NSI have acted 
unfairly, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman