DRN-2613264
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined their claim, in part, 
for storm damage to their garden wall.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S had buildings insurance with Aviva. The policy was in joint names but, for 
ease, Ill refer only to Mrs S throughout my decision.
During a well-publicised, named storm, part of Mrs Ss garden wall fell into the footpath. For 
context, the rear of the garden had a full-length retaining wall. On top of that, there were 
sections of heavy wooden fencing bridging the gaps between the upper part of the wall, 
again running the length of the rear garden boundary. Two fence panels and the wall in 
between had fallen into the footpath. The retaining wall was intact, as was the upper part of 
the wall at each end of the retaining wall. 
Mrs S made a claim under her policy with Aviva which, after assessing the damage, agreed 
to cover the cost of repairing the top part of the wall. But, because additional work needed to 
be done to the retaining wall, Aviva cash settled the claim so Mrs S could arrange the work. 
Mrs S didnt cash the cheque because she thought Aviva shouldve paid to repair the full 
wall. Aviva said the surveyors report showed that the retaining wall was already damaged. 
Because Aviva didnt think the storm had damaged that part of the wall, it said the policy 
didnt provide cover.
To begin with, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. But, after considering further 
comments made by Mrs S, he decided to uphold her complaint. He thought that Aviva 
should either repair the full wall or pay for Mrs S to arrange the work. Thats because Mrs S 
couldnt replace the upper section of wall unless the retaining wall was fixed. Therefore, our 
investigator thought it was necessary for Aviva to replace the retaining wall as well, so that 
Mrs S would be back in the same position as before the damage. 
Aviva didnt agree. It said the photos and surveyors report showed that the retaining wall 
was leaning towards the footpath (away from the garden) and there was a tree which 
wouldve been causing movement in the ground. So, Aviva didnt think the storm had caused 
all the damage.
Then, I issued a provisional decision in January 2021 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this wont be what Mrs S had hoped for, and 
I understand she may be upset given the progress of her complaint so far. However, Ive 
thought long and hard about the circumstances and I cant, in fairness, ask Aviva to pay for 
rebuilding the full wall when there is evidence to suggest that damage was already present. 
Let me explain.
When considering whether Aviva fairly handled the claim for storm damage, Ive looked at 
whether there was a storm; whether the damage is typical of that caused by a storm, and 
whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. Firstly, theres no dispute that there 
was a storm. It was a well-publicised, named storm which caused damage in many areas of 
the country. 
Damage typically caused by a storm might be dislodged and broken roof tiles, broken tree 
branches or fallen trees. While I dont necessarily think its common for a storm to blow over 
a substantial brick wall, its possible. As Aviva agreed with Mrs S that the storm caused the 
upper part of the wall to fall into the footpath, I see no reason to consider this point further.
The final consideration, then, is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
Again, Aviva accepted that the storm caused the upper wall to fall onto the footpath, and it 
settled the claim in cash. I wont look at that part of the claim any further. 
The issue here is that Aviva didnt think the storm damaged the lower part  the retaining 
wall. Mrs S says the upper wall pulled the retaining wall as it blew over, so the damage was 
a direct result of the storm.
Ive looked at the policy, which says:
The Buildings
We will provide cover for loss of or damage to the buildings caused by
2. Storm or Flood
What is not covered
Loss or damage
caused by storm to fences, gates and hedges;
that happens gradually.
The policy definition of buildings includes walls, so Im satisfied that if the storm damaged 
the wall its covered under the policy. Fences arent covered, as shown in the terms above.
So, Ive thought about whether it was fair for Aviva to decline cover for the retaining wall. 
Aviva supplied photos on which it marked where the wall leans away from the garden, 
adjoining fence and tree. Mrs S also supplied photos of the wall, including one from before 
the upper part fell. She says the photos show that there was no existing damage to the 
upper or retaining wall and no evidence of it leaning. Each of the photos seems to support 
the claim made by the party supplying it and, overall, none of the photos are conclusive. 
Ive looked at what the expert report says and its here that I find Avivas position more 
persuasive. Its expert report states that the retaining wall is leaning away from the garden 
and towards the footpath. It says this is because of the soil expanding in Mrs Ss garden and 
pushing the wall. The report also points out that there is a tree at the boundary of the garden 
and its likely the root system will have been causing gradual damage to the retaining wall.Ive looked at street maps online to see whether there is a clearer view of the wall. The 
images were recorded around eight months before the storm and show that the wall runs 
along the street and boundaries several neighbouring gardens. Looking along the length of 
the wall starting further up the street, with the wall on the right of the image, it does appear 
that the section of wall between two fence panels belonging to Mrs S leans outwards. 
However, I appreciate that the images may be distorted so, again, this is not conclusive. 
But the same images do show some damage to the retaining wall brickwork which is 
consistent with the description in the expert report. There are cracks in the brickwork and 
what looks like evidence of some movement. So, on the balance of probability, I think its 
more likely that the weight of soil in the garden gradually pushing the retaining wall caused 
the damage. 
Essentially, the boundary wall broke in half along the length of the garden at its weakest 
point, with the top half falling into the footpath. I understand that builders wont rebuild the 
upper wall on top of the existing retaining wall because it leans away from the garden. While 
I can see why that would be frustrating for Mrs S, I cant reasonably ask Aviva to pay for the 
damage likely caused gradually by the weight of soil and tree roots pushing against it rather 
than by the storm.
Aviva cash settled Mrs Ss claim for the upper wall. I understand she didnt bank the cheque 
(for around £1500) because she didnt think it was enough. Mrs S understood it wouldve 
cost her at least £4000 to rebuild the damaged section of wall. Under the terms of the policy, 
Aviva can choose how to settle the claim:
2. Settling Claims
We can choose to settle your claim by
replacing
reinstating
repairing
payment
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent available in 
the current market. If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or voucher 
settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us
to repair or replace it.
Here, because of the damage to the retaining wall, it couldnt rebuild the storm-damaged 
wall. I understand Mrs Ss builders made similar comments. So, Aviva paid Mrs S what it 
wouldve cost it to rebuild the wall and I think thats fair. I cant reasonably ask it to pay for 
the retaining wall as well because that would constitute betterment  Mrs S would have a 
completely new wall to replace one which already looked damaged.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs S responded to say she had her upper wall replaced further back into her garden, which 
cost around £5000. So, she remains of the view that Avivas settlement offer of £1500 wasnt 
enough. Further, Mrs S said that she had the tree removed and there was no evidence of roots near the retaining wall. She said the builders also found concrete behind the retaining 
wall, which supported her claim for the lower part of the wall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S explained the difficulty of financing the new wall in the current climate and I 
understand that mustve been worrying. But my remit is to decide whether Aviva handled her 
claim fairly and I remain of the view that it did. 
Ive looked at the photos Mrs S provided in response to my provisional decision, but I dont 
think they provide any additional insight. The photos remain inconclusive in terms of whether 
the wall was leaning. But they do show some wear in the brickwork below the fence panel 
which was evident before the upper wall was damaged in the storm. Aviva relied on the 
expert report it received about the condition of the wall and, in the absence of any 
contradictory expert opinion, I have no reason to doubt its accuracy.
Overall, Aviva offered to cover what it wouldve cost it to repair the upper wall and Im 
satisfied that its offer is in line with the policy terms. It declined Mrs Ss claim for the retaining 
wall because it relied on an expert report which said the storm wouldnt have been the main 
cause of damage. I cant see that Aviva has done anything wrong here and I see no reason 
to ask it to increase its cash settlement offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman