DRN-3794411
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund over £56,000 he 
says he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr E says he fell victim to an investment scam with a fraudulent telecoms company, which 
had been facilitated through an investment platform that purported to offer ethical Islamic 
investment opportunities. The investment had been recommended to him by a friend who 
was making good returns. Mr E subsequently made several payments totalling over 
£102,000 but realised he had been scammed when he requested a withdrawal and received 
no further contact from the scammers. 
Mr E said he received returns of around £46,000 back from the company throughout the 
scam, which he says was designed as a ponzi scheme in order to entice him to invest larger 
sums. He complained that Santander should refund the remaining amount lost under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code (The Code). However, Santander declined 
to refund the outstanding loss, as it said Mr E had failed to meet his requisite level of care 
under the Code, in that he had ignored an effective warning and had no reasonable basis for 
believing the payments were genuine.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Mr E had failed to meet his requisite 
level of care under the Code and hadnt seen evidence of an effective warning having been 
provided. So, he said that Santander should have provided a refund in line with the Code. 
Santander failed to respond, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it for the following reasons:
It does not appear to be in dispute that Mr E has been the victim of a scam here, and 
Santander have also said that they suspect the telecoms company was operating a 
ponzi scheme. Having reviewed the relevant information, and having received 
information from other relevant parties, Im also satisfied this was a scam and would 
therefore fall to be considered under the CRM Code.
Ive considered whether Mr E failed to take the requisite level of care required for 
Santander to choose not to reimburse him under the CRM Code, which requires 
payment service providers to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, in all but limited circumstances. It is for 
Santander to establish that a customer failed to meet the requisite level of care under 
one, or more, of the exceptions set out in the CRM Code. The exceptions relevant to 
this case are that the customer ignored an effective warning, or had no reasonable 
basis for believing the payee was legitimate.
Santander says that Mr E ignored effective warnings. When making the payments, 
he chose the option anything else as he wanted to provide a more detailed 
response about what the payment was for. Santander says he chose the incorrect 
option as there was a specific option for investing. However, even if Mr E ought to 
have chosen this specific option, Santander has not been able to demonstrate that 
Mr E would have been presented with an effective warning. For a business to choose 
not to reimburse on this basis, it must show that the warning it gave would have been 
impactful in Mr Es circumstances. It has not provided evidence of what warning 
would have been provided  and has not shown what warning was provided based 
on Mr Es selection of anything else. So, it has not established that Mr E failed to 
meet his requisite level of care by ignoring an effective warning.
I also dont think Santander has been able to establish that Mr E did not have a 
reasonable basis for believing that he was making legitimate payments. He was 
introduced to the investment by a friend who was also making returns at the time, 
and had also heard from others in his community that they were investing too. This 
meant he had little reason to doubt it was a genuine opportunity, as it had come 
recommended from a trusted friend rather than someone who had approached him 
out of the blue. He said the registration process was professional, and that he had to 
provide identification and information about himself, which reassured him the 
companies were legitimate.
Santander says that Mr E failed to carry out enough checks on the company. But 
Mr E said that he did look at the telecoms company online and saw they were 
registered on Companies House and had working eBay/Amazon accounts with 
positive reviews. He was also sent documentation and emails that all looked 
professional. He didnt consult the FCA website, but then he wouldnt have found 
anything about the telecoms company on the FCA website. Mr E was also receiving 
regular returns, which is a common tactic used by scammers (particularly in ponzi 
schemes) in order to entice their victims to invest larger sums. But it would have 
given Mr E the reassurance that he was investing in a legitimate opportunity as 
everything appeared as though he was making a return on his investment, and that 
he was able to make withdrawals.
So, Im not persuaded Santander has been able to establish that Mr E lacked a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were genuine, and I dont consider he 
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the Code. Im not satisfied that 
Santander met its standards as a firm under the CRM Code either as it has not been 
able to demonstrate that it provided any effective warning to Mr E despite there being 
an identifiable APP scam risk. Therefore, I conclude that Santander should have 
reimbursed Mr E under the provisions of the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to refund 
the payments Mr E made to the scammer, less any credits received. 
Santander should also pay interest at the account rate on this amount from the date it 
declined Mr Es claim under the Code until the date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman