DRN-2816032
The complaint
Mr D complains to Plus500UK Ltd about the losses he incurred on his contract for difference 
trading account.
 
What happened
In May 2015, Mr D opened a contract for difference (CFD) trading account with Plus500UK. 
With help of his representatives, he made a complaint in October 2020. They explained that 
Mr Ds application to open a CFD account was unplanned, and only prompted after seeing 
an advert online. At the time of opening the account, Mr D was employed but wasnt working 
due to mental health issues, so he needed extra income to supplement his statutory sick 
pay. He thought the sign up process was simple and anyone could get through it  the 
questions had multiple choice answers and he felt pressured to select what answers were 
likely to be more desirable as these were requirements to be accepted.
The representatives explained that Mr Ds financial circumstances meant he wasnt suitable 
for trading, nor did he have any investment experience. And while Mr Ds application had 
suggested he did have some experience, there was nothing to show what Plus500 did to 
verify or test this. They said Plus500 had failed to clearly explain the risks and failed to 
undertake an adequate assessment of Mr Ds experience and knowledge. They felt 
Plus500s reliance on Mr Ds self-assessment wasnt compliant with European Securities 
and Markets Authority (ESMA) guidelines. They asked for Mr Ds losses of c£20,000 to be 
returned with interest. 
Plus500 looked into the concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. While Mr D 
may have been enticed to open an account after seeing an advert, their adverts were 
compliant with the regulators rules and their website included warnings about the risks 
involved. They explained the appropriateness check they performed, but that they didnt 
have to assess suitability and theyd only asked about Mr Ds finances for anti-money 
laundering reasons. 
Plus500 also said theyd explained the risks within the legal documents Mr D had to confirm 
hed read before opening the account. And that hed lost c£7,000 rather than the £20,000 his 
complaint had suggested. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr D asked for our help. His representatives said Plus500 should have 
treated him as a vulnerable person. 
One of our investigators had a look at what happened. He thought about Mr Ds 
appropriateness for this sort of trading and how risks had been explained, but he didnt think 
Plus500 had done anything wrong. He also didnt think Plus500 ought to have been aware of 
Mr Ds vulnerabilities, so again, didnt think they ought to have done anything differently. 
Mr D and his representatives didnt agree  they raised four points which were, in summary:
-Thered been an inadequate assessment of Mr Ds knowledge:
Plus500 relied on irrelevant and unsupported information  COBS 10.2.1 required 
them to ask Mr D to provide information to enable an appropriateness assessment 
and what was done here wasnt sufficient, as confirmed by the regulators thematic 
review. 
-There was an insufficient account of Mr Ds experience:
Plus500 failed to take adequate account of Mr Ds nature, volume and frequency of 
trading experience which was something required by COBS 10.2.2. Mr D hadnt been 
treated fairly and Plus500 hadnt had regard for his best interests.
-Plus500 failed to evaluate whether failed applicants should be allowed to proceed:
Where the appropriateness test was failed or not enough information was provided, 
in line with COBS 10.3.3 best practice would be for the client not to proceed. There 
was a failure to comply with obligations around customers best interests. 
-There was poor oversight, weak controls and inadequate management information:
Plus500 failed to have appropriate, accurate management information and 
meaningful board level discussions about appropriateness. The failure to conduct 
business with due care skill and diligence, and failure to take reasonable care 
constitutes further regulatory failure. 
As our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, the case was passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see the core of this complaint turns on the fact that Mr D feels he 
shouldnt have been allowed to open this sort of trading account given his circumstances. 
And had he have been prevented from doing so, he wouldnt have lost so much money. 
Ive had to apply a slightly different lens to this complaint though as while Mr D speaks to his 
suitability for this sort of trading, Plus500 didnt have to assess his suitability for trading as 
they werent going to be giving him any advice. Instead, they had to assess his 
appropriateness for trading. So some of the things he now argues in terms of affordability 
and verifying his experience arent things Plus500 needed to consider at the time. Ill 
elaborate below.
The relevant regulators rules here are found within the conduct of business sourcebook 
(COBS). Section 10.2 set out the requirements Plus500 had to follow in May 2015:
COBS 10.2.1 R 01/11/2007
 (1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant 
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered 
or demanded;
(b) may assume that a professional client has the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to those particular investment services or transactions, or types of transaction or product, for which the 
client is classified as a professional client.
COBS 10.2.2 R 01/11/2007
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their 
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client.
So Plus500 had to ask Mr D about his relevant knowledge and experience in order to 
determine whether he could understand the risks of CFD trading. Ive reviewed some of the 
questions Mr D was answered, and have noted his answers to each below:
- how many CFD or leveraged trades hed placed in the last three years  sometimes
- shares, indices, options, commodities, forex and cryptocurrency  sometimes
- exchange trades derivatives (warrants, futures, options, ETFs)  sometimes 
- average amounts traded in the above products per month  £500+
Mr D was also asked whether he had any education, professional qualifications or work 
experience in the financial services industry within the last three years in a role relevant to 
leveraged investments he said [y]es  work/previously worked in a relevant role within a 
financial institution. And he confirmed he was employed, his annual income was under 
£15,000, his savings, investments and assets were between £5,000 and £20,000 and that 
he could afford to have up to £5,000 available for trading. 
Given that Mr D indicated he had relevant knowledge and experience, Plus500 considered 
the account to be appropriate for him. While he disputes this now, I must say I agree with 
Plus500. Importantly, another of the COBS rules at 10.2.4 says [a] firm is entitled to rely on 
the information provided by a client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of 
date, inaccurate or incomplete. And Ive not seen anything here to cause Plus500 doubt. 
While Mr Ds representatives say the assessment wasnt sufficient, Plus500 did ask Mr D 
about his knowledge and experience and his answers did indicate a different picture to the 
one he shares now. If Mr D gave answers that he felt were desirable in order for the account 
being opened, that was his choice to do so  we wouldnt find Plus500 at fault for relying on 
what they were told. They didnt have to sense check or test the answers provided. And 
importantly, Mr D passed the appropriateness test so the arguments now raised in line with 
COBS 10.3 arent applicable. 
I am sorry to hear Mr D was going through a difficult time when he opened his account  
while this sort of thing may have been something that would have been discovered within a 
suitability assessment, as Ive explained, Plus500 didnt have to do a suitability assessment 
here. They just needed to check whether Mr D, given his knowledge and experience, was 
able to understand the risks involved, what services and transactions he was familiar with, 
the nature, volume and frequency of relevant transactions and any relevant education or 
professional experience he may have. Mr Ds wider circumstances werent known from this, 
so I dont think Plus500 knew to restrict or at least discourage him from trading. 
I also think Plus500 did enough to warn Mr D about the inherent risks of CFD trading  even 
though this was by way of standardised warnings as the representative critiques. The user 
agreement said Trading in Contracts for Differences (CFDs) and use of the Trading Platform (which allows high leverage investments in CFDs) carries a high level of risk to your 
investment. Make sure you fully understand the risks involved before downloading the 
software and accessing the Trading Platform and take investment, financial, tax or other 
advice if necessary. CFD trading may not be suitable for every customer. A detailed 
explanation of the risks associated with trading on the Trading Platform is set out in this User 
Agreement and the Risk Disclosure Notice which can be found by clicking on the Risk 
Warning on the Website. You should ensure you fully understand such risks before entering 
into the Client Agreement and using the Trading Platform.
I think this did enough to highlight the fact that Plus500 felt the sort of trading they offered 
carried high risks  it remained Mr Ds responsibility to decide whether he wished to go 
ahead with the account given the risks highlighted, and despite what he knew of his 
circumstances, ultimately he decided to proceed. 
Lastly, I am not familiar with Plus500s internal workings and whether or not their board level 
meetings discussed appropriateness or not, but either way, I dont consider this a relevant 
point Mr Ds case turns on. Instead, having applied the rules relevant at the time and from all 
that I have seen, the firm did what was asked of them and it was reasonable for Mr Ds 
account to have been opened. 
Having thought carefully about Mr Ds complaint, I do appreciate he lost a lot of money and 
given his circumstances this must have been very worrying for him. However from 
everything Ive seen, I dont agree it would be fair or reasonable to hold Plus500 responsible 
for his losses.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint and make no award.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman