DRN-4451745
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a claim he made on his U K Insurance Limited (UKI) legal 
expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim against a Court in which hed brought a 
claim against another.
Mr R says UKI treated him unfairly.
What happened
Mr R made a claim on his UKI legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim 
against a Court in which hed brought a claim against another.
UKI instructed their panel firm to consider whether the claim fell within cover. The panel firm 
said that Mr R didnt have a contract with the Court so his claim wouldnt fall within the policy 
terms as the only term that might have engaged was the contract section of the policy, but 
this didnt apply.
Mr R says he went on to settle his claim against the Court by instructing his own Solicitor. He 
says the panel firms advice was flawed and that UKI shouldnt have instructed them to 
consider his claim because there was a conflict of interest in them advising in a claim he was 
involved in. In addition, Mr R also says UKI should have given him the freedom to choose his 
own Solicitor to advise them on his claim.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that the claim Mr 
R advanced through his own Solicitor wasnt a claim in contract, but rather a claim for breach 
of the Equality Act 2010, which wasnt covered by the policy. As such he said that UKI were 
entitled to decline the claim in the way that they did. He also said UKI were entitled to 
instruct their panel firm to advise them in relation to the claim- their instruction wasnt to act 
for Mr R, rather it was to provide them with advice. And it was up to the panel firm to declare 
whether they thought they could advise Mr R impartially. The investigator also said that Mr R 
didnt have the freedom to choose his own Solicitor because there was no cover available 
under the policy at all. As such the legislation hes quoted doesnt apply.
Mr R doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. This is why.
The starting point are the policy terms. They say:
 Contract disputes We will pay costs for breach of contract claims for:  buying or hiring 
goods or services  selling goods  buying or selling your home
The other sections of cover are in relation to personal injury, clinical negligence, employment 
claims, property protection and motoring offenses so they dont apply to the claim Mr R 
wanted to make. The question for UKI was therefore whether Mr R had a contract claim 
against the Court he wanted to litigate against for buying or hiring goods or services. 
UKI referred the claim to their panel firm for advice on the issue. The panel firm advised that 
Mr R didnt have a contract with the Court just because hed paid an issue fee, as this was 
requirement of litigating at that Court. I dont think the position UKI took was unreasonable. 
They were entitled to seek advice on the question of whether the claim amounted to a 
contract dispute, and I agree with the advice given. Whilst I appreciate why UKI took advice, 
I am able to determine the issue of policy coverage without the benefit of it. Im satisfied that 
based on the claim Mr R made against the Court himself, the claim wasnt founded in 
contract but rather in breach of Equality Act 2010 legislation. So UKI were right to turn down 
cover.
Mr R is unhappy that UKI involved the panel firm because he considered them to have a 
conflict of interest. In particular, he references the fact that the panel firm gave advice in the 
underlying claim that was litigated at the Court Mr R was claiming against and says they 
were proved wrong. He also says hes made a complaint against the panel firm to the Legal 
Ombudsman and is looking to make a claim against them in professional negligence. I 
understand the panel firm has refused to act for Mr R in other claims hes made because 
they consider the relationship between them has broken down. Whilst all of this might be 
true, it doesnt in my view mean that UKI werent entitled to ask the panel firm for advice on 
whether the claim could be advanced in contract law. The panel firm werent being asked to 
act for Mr R and given their history, I imagine they would have declined to do so anyway. 
The panel firm are an independent firm of professionals with their own codes of conduct and 
regulator. If they felt they were unable to provide UKI with impartial advice, I think its unlikely 
they would have done so. And given the advice makes no difference in this case to my view 
of Mr Rs complaint, I dont think its prejudiced him in any way. Mr R wasnt entitled to cover 
with or without that advice. The letter of claim from his own Solicitors sent to the Court is 
evidence of this. 
Mr R feels he should have been given freedom to choose his own Solicitor in respect of his 
claim. But the legislation relevant to that only applies when theres a claim thats capable of 
cover. There was no claim capable of cover here because Mr R didnt have a contract for 
buying or hiring goods or services with the Court, so Im not persuaded that freedom of 
choice arises at all. And whilst I know that Mr R feels strongly that the legislation relating to 
this issue supports him, I dont intend to explore it further because theres simply no cover in 
place to allow the issue to become one that UKI needed to consider.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman