DRN-3685219
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited have declined claims that Mr S 
made for disability on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy in 2021.
What happened
Mr S made two claims during January-February 2021. Aviva declined these on the basis that 
both claim periods were for less than a 30 day duration and were therefore not covered 
under the policy terms.
Mr S then made a claim for the period of 23 August 2021  22 February 2022. Aviva 
declined the claim on the basis that Mr S was not working at the beginning of the period of 
sickness.
Our adjudicator thought that Aviva had correctly declined the claims from January-February 
2021. However, he thought it would be fair for Aviva to pay the claim beginning in August 
2021. Aviva disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy has a 30 day waiting period, meaning that a policyholder has to be signed off as 
unfit to work for 30 consecutive days before a claim can be considered. Mr Ss two earlier 
periods of sickness during January and February 2021 were both for less than 30 days. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Aviva has applied the policy terms correctly in declining these 
claims.
Ill now turn to the claim that Mr S made for the period beginning in August 2021.
Mr S wished to carry on working and therefore, following his earlier bouts of sickness 
absence, he arranged with his employer to undertake a phased return to work. This involved 
working shorter hours each day and carrying out lighter duties. Unfortunately his condition 
did not improve sufficiently to enable a return to his normal role and he was made redundant 
in August 2021 on the grounds of incapacity. His employer has said that Mr Ss last working 
day was 21 August 2021. Mr S was signed as unfit to work by his doctor on 23 August 2021. 
As such, Aviva declined the claim on the basis that Mr Ss employment had already ended at 
the time that he became unwell. The policy defines work as:
Work
Any paid work of at least 16 hours a week. This includes self-employed work and statutory 
maternity and parental leave but not temporary work.
I appreciate that on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Aviva was entitled to decline 
the claim as the doctors note records Mr Ss as being unfit to work only from 23 August 
2021, which is two days after Mr Ss employment had ended. However, in looking at what is 
fair and reasonable, I consider that Aviva should look at the wider circumstances to pay the 
claim.
Im persuaded that the evidence shows that Mr S had been unfit to work well in advance of 
when his employment was terminated. Most people in his situation would be signed off work 
as soon as they became too unwell and then the employers process of making them 
redundant on medical grounds would happen while someone was already signed off. If Mr S 
had done that then its likely that Aviva would have paid the claim. His planned phased 
return to work wasnt really working as the occupational therapist report records that Mr S 
wasnt able to cope with even the substantially reduced hours that had been agreed. His 
medical condition is the reason given by his employer for the termination of his employment. 
Mr S was trying very hard to stay in work and he only sought to make a claim once he knew 
that he was losing his job and his income would cease. As Mr S was clearly unfit to work 
prior to his employment ending, he should not be penalized for going about things in slightly 
the wrong order and only acquiring a sick note once hed finally lost his job.
Therefore, based on what is fair and reasonable, Aviva should pay the claim from 23 August 
2021 as if Mr S was still in work at the time he became unfit to work. In doing so it should 
also disregard that Mr S was working less than 16 hours a week in the lead up to this period 
as I am satisfied that he was contracted to work 37 hours per week and the reduced hours 
were an attempt to enable Mr S to stay in his job.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. The claims made 
by Mr S in January and February 2021 were correctly declined in line with the policy terms. 
However, Aviva Insurance Limited should pay the claim beginning 23 August 2021. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman