DRN-2329574
The complaint
Mr M complains about Unum Ltds decision to decline his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr M had access to a group income protection policy through his employer. The policy was 
designed to pay a proportion of Mr Ms income in the event that he became incapacitated 
and unable to work in his own occupation for reasons of illness or injury. 
Mr M became absent from work in 2018 and went on to make an income protection claim: 
citing that he was suffering from stress, back pain and a cyst. 
Unum said the available medical evidence didnt demonstrate that Mr M was incapacitated, 
and instead showed his stress was related to perceived issues in the workplace. Unum also 
said that Mr Ms back pain was reported as mild, and manageable with physiotherapy. And 
that there were no concerning features in relation to the cyst, which was being monitored. So 
it declined his claim. 
Mr M disagreed. He said hed complied with the policy and both his GP and occupational 
health advisor had confirmed he wasnt fit for work. He also said matters had further 
deteriorated with his employer, and he saw no reason as to why his claim had not been paid. 
Unum maintained its position. It said the medical evidence didnt demonstrate an incapacity, 
but did show Mr M was experiencing a normal reaction (stress) to pressure in his workplace. 
Unhappy with Unums position, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He disagreed 
with the outcome of his claim, said hed received no information or advice about the nature 
of the policy cover, and set out that the declinature had led him into financial difficulty. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. They didnt think Unum had declined the 
claim unfairly, and said the available medical evidence did show that Mr M was experiencing 
workplace stress rather than an incapacity. But Mr M disagreed and so as no agreement 
was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, Unum must handle claims both 
promptly and fairly, and must not reject them unreasonably.
The relevant policy terms in this complaint set out that Unum will consider someone 
incapacitated when it is, satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of illness or injury, 
to perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation
The policy defines material and substantial duties as, the duties that are normally required 
for the performance of the members insured occupation, and which cannot reasonably be 
omitted or modified by the member or the employer
And insured occupation is further defined as, the gainful occupation that the member was 
actively undertaking for the employer immediately prior to incapacity.
So it wouldnt be enough for the medical evidence in this case to show that Mr M was unwell 
whilst working in his insured occupation. It would need to show that he was unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of that occupation because of an illness or injury. 
And based on the available evidence, Mr Ms insured occupation appears to have been 
predominantly desk based, involving phone contact with customers and report writing.
Mr M disagrees with the way Unum has interpreted the medical evidence in this complaint. 
But having considered that evidence myself, Im not persuaded that Unum has acted 
unreasonably in concluding Mr M was experiencing workplace stress and not an incapacity. 
Ill explain why. 
Mr M was signed off work by his GP. I understand Mr M feels this supports his claim, 
but fitness to work certificates arent in themselves evidence of incapacity. Mr Ms 
fitness to work certificates cited stress as the reason for him being unfit for work, 
and did not add any wider context to his absence. Mr Ms GP record also made 
reference to perceived difficulties in his workplace, and contained very limited 
commentary surrounding reasons which were preventing him from being able to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation.  
Mr M was prescribed medication, but there is a lack of evidence to suggest that his 
medication was impacting his ability to work. And, as Unum rightly stated, many 
people continue to work while taking medication. 
Four occupational health (OH) reports were produced for Mr M. They concluded he 
was not fit for work, but they too centred on Mr Ms inability to work being related to 
perceived stressors in the workplace. 
The first OH report dated 16 October 2018 said Mr M had ongoing concerns 
related to his role, and felt issues at work were contributing to a decline in his 
psychological health. It anticipated Mr M would be able to resume work upon 
recovery and resolution of his work issues.
The second report dated 13 November 2018 said Mr M had noted little 
change in his psychological health, and explained that Mr M was currently 
unable to provide regular and efficient service due to ongoing psychological 
health symptoms and unresolved work issues.
The third, which was dated 23 January 2019, said Mr Ms perceived 
workplace concerns were preventing his return to work, and any return was 
likely to be influenced by the extent to which these issues are discussed and 
addressed. The report did refer to Mr M experiencing back pain, but it 
advised that pain was not impacting Mr Ms attendance or his ability to 
perform work tasks.
The fourth report, dated 21 March 2019, reiterated that Mr M was absent from 
work because of psychological ill heath which was perceived to be work 
related. And it further maintained that Mr M was likely to be fit to return to 
work, in his full capacity, once his work place issues were resolved.The medical evidence does show that Mr M had back pain and a cyst, but there is 
limited evidence to suggest that the back pain or cyst caused Mr M to be unable to 
work. I say this because OH said Mr Ms back pain did not impact his attendance or 
ability to perform work tasks. And because Mr Ms GP noted that the cyst had been 
previously investigated, was not considered to be of concern, and could be discussed 
again if need be.  
I accept Mr M was suffering with stress, experiencing back pain and had a cyst. But for the 
reasons given above I am not persuaded that it was unreasonable of Unum to conclude that 
the available medical evidence did not demonstrate an incapacity in line with the policy 
terms. 
I am aware that Mr M has concerns about receiving a lack of information about the group 
policy, but its important to recognise that Mr M isnt the policy holder in this case  his 
employer is. And it would be unfair of me to hold Unum responsible for any information that 
Mr Ms employer may not have provided or communicated to him.
I am, of course, sorry to hear that Mr M has experienced financial difficulty, but I do not think 
Unum has declined this claim unreasonably. And so, I will not be interfering with its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman