DRN-3259972
The complaint
Mr A has raised four complaints about Connect Insurance Brokers Ltd. He says: 
When he initially set up his policy, Connect sent him someone elses documents and 
it took a couple of months to get the correct documents;
He called the out of hours service to make a claim, but that claim wasnt actioned 
until he made his complaint;
In April 2020 Connect told him theyd no longer take his calls  he says this 
discriminates against him because Text Relay calls are the best way for him to 
communicate; and
Connect failed to give him a complete response to his Subject Access Request 
(SAR).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
On 19 August 2019 Mr A took out a motor insurance policy through Connect. They sent him 
his policy documents by email on 20 September. Connect have accepted that along with 
Mr As documents they included a rogue document which was not intended for him.
On 20 February 2020 Mr A called to register a claim under his policy. He called a number 
hed been given by Connect and communicated with an incident management companys 
out of hours service. Ill call the incident management company P. But the claim didnt get 
handed on to Connect or Mr As insurer and wasnt actioned until 27 March.
Later, in April 2020, when Mr A was communicating with Connect about another matter, and 
his complaint about his claim not being actioned, Connect told Mr A theyd not take any 
further Text Relay calls from him and that he should use email instead.
Mr A complained that he was being discriminated against because Text Relay  a service 
enabling people with hearing or speech impairments to communication with other people 
over the phone, while a relay assistant acts as an intermediary  is how he communicates.
 
In response, Connect said: 
Policy documents  they couldnt identify a delay on their part as theyd provided the 
documents as soon as they were received from the insurer. But they accepted theyd 
included a document for someone else in error and said sorry for this.
Delay in contact about the claim  Connect explained P hadnt told them about the 
claim but said theyd registered the claim with Mr As insurer the same day he got in 
touch with them. So, Connect didnt think theyd done anything wrong here.
Discrimination  they said Mr A had called on a number of occasions on 9 April 2020 
regarding a direct debit issue with his finance company. Connect said theyd 
explained at length the issue wasnt something they could resolve, as it was between 
Mr A and his finance provider, but theyd pass on his concerns. They added that Mr A 
had terminated several of the calls before theyd been properly concluded. They said 
due to the lengthy conversations not resolving the issue, and his discourtesy in 
ending calls with staff, theyd respectfully asked he contact them by email about this 
issue  as he had communicated that way previously. They said they werent saying 
Mr A couldnt contact them at all using Text Relay, theyd just asked him to articulate 
himself over email about this direct debit issue.
Unhappy with this, Mr A asked us to look into things. He said he also raised an issue 
regarding Connect not providing all the documents they were required to under the 
General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) when replying to his SAR. Mr A said the 
director of Connect said he didnt need to.
One of our investigators looked into things. He found:
Policy documents  he could see Mr As insurer had sent the documents to Connect 
on 20 September 2019, even though the policy started on 19 August 2019. So, he 
didnt think Connect had delayed sending the information. They had sent an incorrect 
document along with the correct ones, but he didnt think this had had any impact on 
Mr A.
Delay in contact about the claim  the incident management company had failed to 
pass on the details to Connect, so he didnt think Connect could be held responsible 
for this. And he found when Connect were first made aware of Mr As claim, they 
forwarded it on immediately to his insurer.
Discrimination  on four calls provided by Connect the Text Relay operator confirmed 
Mr A had terminated the call, not Connect. He felt Connect had made it clear they 
couldnt help Mr A with the issue he had with his finance provider but would pass the 
details on. And because Mr A had kept calling and then ending the calls, he didnt 
think Connect asking him to contact them by email for this issue was unfair.
GDPR request  he said the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) were the right 
body to contact regarding this issue.
Mr A didnt accept this. He said our investigator hadnt listened to the correct calls as 
Connect had told him they wouldnt take calls from him anymore. Hed also spoken to the 
incident management company who said they hadnt worked with Connect for over three 
years. And he said using the phone was easiest for him, as hes got to get people to help 
him write letters or emails, so Connect had failed to make reasonable adjustments for him.
Our Investigator considered these points  but didnt agree. He sent Mr A a copy of an email 
from P to Connect in which P confirmed their out of hours service had failed to either pass 
the claim on to Connect or re-direct Mr A.
As Mr A still didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To address Mr As concerns, Ive split them into four sections.
Policy documents
Mr A has said it took a long time for the policy documents to be sent to him, and that an 
incorrect document was included.Looking at the information Ive been given, I can see that Mr As insurer issued his policy 
schedule on 20 September 2019  and I can see an email the same day from Connect to 
him sharing that. So, I dont think Connect did delay in sending out the relevant documents 
to him. And, from some emails Ive seen, it seems the reason the documents werent 
produced earlier is because Mr A didnt provide all the information Connect asked him to. If 
Mr A would like to complain about the length of time it took his insurer to issue his policy 
documents to Connect, thats a complaint hed have to raise with his insurer in the first 
instance.
In respect of the incorrect document Connect included with his policy documents, Connect 
have accepted they did that, so its not in dispute. But, although I can imagine it was 
disappointing to have received an incorrect document, I cant see its impacted Mr A  so I 
dont plan on telling Connect to do anything further on this point.
Delay in actioning the claim
I can understand why Mr A would have felt unhappy with the delay in his claim being dealt 
with  particularly given the number he called to make the claim was one he was given by 
Connect. However, I cant say the delay caused by P was Connects responsibility. 
By the time he made his claim the number he was calling was out of date; P no longer 
handled claims on Mr As policy. Its unfortunate Mr A wasnt redirected at that point but, 
again, I dont think thats Connects fault. Connect have said that the new claims number had 
been notified to consumers in October 2019 and updated on their website.
At this time, Mr A was calling a number he was given to register a claim. As claims related 
issues are the responsibility of his insurer, Ive not considered this point further against 
Connect. Im also aware that our service has already considered a complaint against Mr As 
insurer and decided they didnt cause any unreasonable delays.
Discrimination
Mr A has said under the Equality Act he has to be allowed to call using Text Relay and 
thinks hes been discriminated against because Connect asked him to email, not call, about 
the issue regarding his finance company.
Connect say that Mr A had called repeatedly about the finance issue, going over the same 
ground, and kept hanging up on them when they were trying to help him. So, they said they 
wouldnt accept any more calls from him on this topic because they were struggling to be 
able to help him. Instead, they felt him emailing would be best as then theyd be able to 
explain what he needed to do  and they noted hed used this method previously.
I think in essence what Connect are saying is that they felt further calls with Mr A would be 
unproductive as theyd said all they had to say. I think they were also finding the frequency 
of his calls and the fact that he hung up multiple times unreasonable.
I can see from the information Ive got there were several calls on 8 and 9 April  Connect 
have provided recordings of five calls from those dates and Ive listened to those.
In the call Ive been provided with from 8 April, Mr A asks about charges  and Connect say 
theyve had this conversation a few times at this point, and the finance provider isnt willing 
to remove the default charges  and theyd told Mr A this. Mr A says he wants to complain 
about the charges and Connect explain those charges are being charged by the finance 
company  so Mr A would have to contact them. And he was given a number to call the 
finance provider on. This call ended amicably.Ive also listened to four calls Mr A had with Connect on 9 April. In the first of those calls, 
Connect explain its still not something they can help with and he would need to speak to the 
finance company. After Mr A explained the finance company werent talking to him because 
they said he was being aggressive which he denied, Connect suggested he email them with 
the full details of his problem, and theyd see what they could do to help. As the call carried 
on, they repeated this offer, and Mr A said theres no point and ended the call.
In the second call, Mr A says hes emailed Connect some evidence that the finance 
company werent taking his calls. Connect repeated the information from the above call  
saying Mr A could email them his concerns regarding the finance company, and theyd send 
that across to them. Towards the end of this call, Mr A asked for some information about 
finance costs, and then while Connect were trying to find it, he ended the call. 
In the third call, Mr A says hes now paid his insurance premium in full but remains unhappy 
and wants to be put through to the complaints team He also asked for an update on his 
complaint against Connect (the complaint about the policy documents, and delay in actioning 
the claim that Ive mentioned above). Connect say it seems there has been a breakdown in 
communications as theyve had many conversations about this, and theyve already told him 
they have eight weeks to respond to his original complaint. Its at that point Connect request 
Mr A to put any further complaints, or queries about his existing complaint, in writing. While 
Connect were explaining this, Mr A ended the call.
In the fourth call, Mr A asks to speak to someone, and Connect explain theyre not prepared 
to take any more phone calls from him and ask him to put his queries through email. He then 
says he wants to cancel his policy, and while Connect are explaining he needs to put that 
request in writing he hangs up.
In total these calls lasted around an hour  and I think its reasonable to say that during 
these conversations Connect tried to support Mr A in moving forward with his concerns 
about the finance charges. They explained it was the finance provider, not them, who 
applied the charges  and when Mr A said the finance provider wouldnt talk to him anymore, 
they offered to accept an email from him theyd then forward over to the finance provider. 
Mr A was asking the same questions hed already had answers to  and in the four calls on 
9 April he ended the calls while Connect were speaking and / or in the middle of answering a 
query hed raised.
Ive thought about Connects unreasonable behaviour policy. This says when someone is 
regularly contacting them about the same issue, one of the actions they may take is 
restricting the customers method of communication to one channel only  such as email.  I 
think Mr A was principally contacting Connect about the same issue on 9 April, an issue hed 
already discussed with them on 8 April. He was also hanging up before Connect had a 
chance to complete what they were saying. And in each call, he was told that the best way to 
resolve his issue with the finance provider was to email his complaint points to Connect so 
that they could pass that on.
So, whilst I appreciate that Mr A was highly frustrated with the finance provider and wanted 
Connect, who he saw as partly responsible for the situation which had led him to incur a 
default charge, to intervene, I dont think Connect acted unreasonably by requesting that he 
stop repeatedly calling and use email instead. I think theyd have done the same with 
anyone else in similar circumstances, whether they used Text Relay or not.
Mr A has said that Connects refusal to continue Text Relay conversations on 9 April made 
him feel discriminated against because Connect were withdrawing his main method of 
communication unreasonably. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr A couldnt have set out his concerns in an email instead. Ive seen he regularly emailed Connect before 9 April, and 
I also havent seen anything to suggest hed made Connect aware that emailing was more 
difficult for him. Indeed, he emailed them during the calls Ive listened to, without expressing 
any concerns in doing so. Ive also noted when raising his complaint, hes said he finds it 
easier to use Text Relay and get matters resolved as soon as possible  but didnt mention 
any specific challenges with emails. 
I note that Mr A has subsequently told this service that he finds drafting emails more difficult 
than calling using Text Relay. But I dont think his preference for using Text Relay means 
that Connect shouldnt have requested he communicate by email on 9 April. From the calls 
Ive heard I agree that they were becoming increasingly less productive and, on balance, I 
dont think Connect did anything wrong by trying to put some parameters around their 
continued communication with Mr A.
Given there were quite a few calls on this day, about something Connect couldnt directly 
help with, I do think they acted fairly in trying to help Mr A. It seems clear to me that the calls 
werent productive for Mr A or Connect. Hed previously communicated with them by email, 
and Ive not seen anything to show Connect were aware emailing would be more difficult for 
Mr A than using Text Relay. Taking all of this into account I wont be asking them to 
compensate Mr A for their actions.
GDPR request
Mr A has said that he asked Connect for a Subject Access Request (SAR), but they told him 
they dont have to provide it. Ive seen that Connect told Mr A theyd provided all the 
personal data they held for him. But, due to Mr A saying he recorded all of his calls, they felt 
his request for copies of all call recordings would be deemed an excessive request. So, they 
didnt provide those, but did provide the end of the calls, after Mr A had hung up  as the 
Text Relay system may not have recorded them for him.
It does appear to be true that the Text Relay system records all of the calls  as Mr A has 
sent us a call with the incident management company where he had a transcript of it.
Overall then, Ive not got enough evidence to say Connect have acted unfairly or incorrectly 
leading to inconvenience for Mr A  as it would seem he likely already has a copy of the 
information hes asked Connect to provide. 
If Mr A wishes to, he can take this concern to the ICO. And if they rule that Connect have 
treated Mr A unfairly, this would be new information, and hed be entitled to raise a new 
complaint to Connect if he wished to about it.
Responses to my provisional decision
Connect replied and didnt add any further comments for me to consider.
Mr A didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Connect didnt add anything for me to consider, and Mr A didnt reply by the deadline, Ive 
seen no reason to change the outcome Ive reached.For the reasons Ive explained above, I think Connect made a mistake when sending the 
policy documents but it didnt have an impact on Mr A, arent responsible for his claim delay 
issues, treated Mr A fairly when choosing not to talk to him on the phone any further, and I 
cant say theyve treated him unfairly when replying to his GDPR request.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman