DRN-3102232
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to some solar panels.
What happened
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in February 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr H into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. Mr H also 
complains that the loan agreement did not clearly show how much interest he would have to 
pay, and that there was no cooling-off period.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Ikano didnt respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this complaint. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr H was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for him.
So I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr H fairly and they lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
However, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaints that the loan agreement was not clear and that 
there was no cooling-off period. I have read the loan agreement and it clearly shows how 
much interest he would have to pay, and how much he would have to pay in total. There 
clearly was a cooling-off period of 14 days. The period between Mr H signing the agreement 
and the solar panels being installed was longer than that, so he had the full benefit of it. 
(This does not change my view that the documentation he was given does not clearly show 
the cost of the loan compared with the benefits of the solar panels.)
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr H from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr H is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Ikano needs to reimburse him accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr H in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Hs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr H 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr H accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr H has settled the loan, Ikano should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr H has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and Ikano must:
1. Refund the extra Mr H paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives their refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr H paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives their refund.
5. Pay Mr H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount they 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano must pay 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) must put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman