DRN-3451001
The complaint
Mr K complains Phoenix Life Limited unfairly declined his income protection claim, and 
caused unnecessary delays.
Mr Ks complaint was brought to us on his behalf by a representative. But for ease, Ive 
referred to all representations as having been made by Mr K himself. 
What happened
Mr K has held an income protection policy with Phoenix Life for many years. In February 
2020, he contacted Phoenix Life to make a claim against his policy, as his ability to work had 
been impacted by an illness since 2011. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows.  
the insured is totally unable by reason of illness or injury to follow the occupation 
in which
he was engaged at the time the application was accepted by the Company.
And it provides the following in relation to the timescale for claims to be submitted. 
Notice of the insureds disability must be given to the Company at its Client Service 
Centre
in accordance with the following timescales depending on the deferred period 
applicable to
the principal income benefit under this policy but in any case not later than six 
months after
the end of that deferred period.
Phoenix Life asked Mr K to fill out a claim form, and it contacted his GP and his accountant 
for the medical and financial records it wanted to review to assess the claim. It advised Mr K 
his claim was declined in February 2021  so a year after he had started the process. It said 
the claim was notified late, as Mr K had said hed been suffering with a condition for some 
considerable time, causing absences from work since 2011. And it thought the medical 
evidence didnt support that Mr K had met the policy definition of incapacity for the duration 
of the 13 week deferred period. It said it had also separately considered the claim from 
January 2020 onwards, but again, it thought the evidence didnt support his incapacity for 
the duration of the deferred period. 
Mr K complained to Phoenix Life about the declinature of his claim and the amount of time 
taken to inform him of its decision. 
Phoenix Life said it thought it had been correct to decline the claim and had not caused any 
unnecessary delays in the assessment of it. It also said it wasnt responsible for reminding 
Mr K of the terms and conditions of his policy, which it said had not changed since inception. 
It paid Mr K £150 in compensation for the delay in providing a final response to his 
complaint.
Unhappy with Phoenix Lifes response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Phoenix Life had 
acted unfairly. 
Phoenix Life made no comments on the investigators view. However Mr K disagreed and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Phoenix Life has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Having done so, I dont think Phoenix Life has acted unfairly, and Ill explain why. 
Firstly I should clarify that in this decision I am focussing on what I believe to be the main 
issues at the heart of the complaint  these are the declinature of the claim, and the delays 
in delivering that decision. Ive not looked into the issues Mr K has raised about Phoenix 
Lifes complaint handling. I appreciate he was unhappy with the time taken, and also the 
closure of the complaint and automatic payment of compensation without his agreement. 
However complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the FCA, so these points lie 
outside the jurisdiction of our service. Theyre not something I can look at in this decision. 
And as Ive said, I will be focussing on the main issues related to the claim. 
Declinature of the claim 
Ive carefully considered the wording of the terms around late notification. However, I dont 
think I need to make a finding on this, as although Phoenix Life has said the claim had been 
notified too late, Im satisfied it still fully assessed it based on the available evidence. So I 
dont think the late notification makes a difference here. And Ive gone on to consider the 
available evidence in support of Mr Ks claim. 
Phoenix Life assessed Mr Ks claim dating back to 2011, and said the records of his 
earnings didnt support that he had been unable to work for a continuous 13 week period. 
And based on the evidence Ive reviewed; I dont think this was an unfair assessment. I 
understand Mr K has been suffering with an illness over a considerable period of time. Hes 
said hes had difficulty in securing the right medical advice and treatment for his condition, 
and I sympathise greatly with this. However, in assessing the fairness of Phoenix Lifes 
actions, I must focus on the definition of incapacity set out in Mr Ks policy. And although Mr 
K had frequent periods of absence from work over the years, Im persuaded there was no 
evidence he was continually incapacitated for a full 13 week period as the policy requires. 
Phoenix Life said it also assessed Mr Ks claim based on his incapacity having started at a 
later date in January 2020. However it still declined the claim on this basis. And this was 
because the medical evidence it reviewed didnt support Mr K having been totally unable to 
follow his occupation, in line with the policy terms, for a 13 week period at that time. The 
medical report it received in January 2021 reflected that Mr K had been suffering with a 
recurrent condition multiple times each year. However it also said Mr K had remained well during 2020 and as at the date of the report, it said Mr K was physically well, and that there 
was no reason for him not be working full time. 
So it follows that I think Phoenix Life has assessed Mr Ks claim fairly, and I dont think its 
decision to decline it was unreasonable. 
Mr K has said he wasnt contacted by Phoenix Life to advise him of the terms and conditions 
of the policy. He would have been provided with the terms of his policy when he took it out, 
and he has not said that he didnt receive these. And Phoenix Life has confirmed the terms 
have not been changed since the policy was taken out. Had Mr K wanted another copy of his 
policy terms, or any clarification, he could have contacted Phoenix Life to ask for this at any 
time. I dont think it would be fair to expect Phoenix Life to have contacted him to explain the 
terms of his policy without being requested to do so.
Delays in assessing the claim
It took around a year from when Mr K first contacted Phoenix Life about his claim, to him 
being advised the claim was declined. And I can appreciate how frustrating it must have 
been to have to wait this length of time for an outcome. However, having reviewed the steps 
Phoenix Life took to source and assess evidence about Mr Ks claim, I dont think the delay 
was unreasonable. I think the requests Phoenix Life made were reasonable and the delays 
in responses from third parties contacted for reports and information were beyond its control. 
And Im satisfied that Phoenix Life chased the third parties appropriately so that it could 
continue to progress the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Phoenix Life Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman