DRN-3343746
The complaint
Miss A (through a representative) complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to her
irresponsibly because it didnt carry out proper affordability checks in line with industry
regulation at the time.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss As complaint. STF didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my first provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partially upholding 
Miss As complaint about loans 2 - 15. However, in response to the provisional decision STF 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with further information. As a result of this further 
information I issued a second provisional decision. 
In this second provisional decision, I outlined why I thought that only loans 5  15 should be 
upheld, and it is this second provisional decision that I am taking forward for a final decision. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and smaller text and form part of this final decision.
Given I have issued two earlier decision I have taken the relevant parts from both of these 
earlier decisions and they form part of this final decision.  
What I said in my provisional decisions
In total Miss A was given 15 home collected loans between November 2015 and February
2018. Ive included some of the information this Service has received from STF about the
lending in the table below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 26/11/2015 04/02/2016 16 £10.00
2 £150.00 04/02/2016 07/04/2016 16 £15.00
3 £200.00 07/04/2016 09/06/2016 16 £20.00
4 £250.00 09/06/2016 31/08/2016 16 £25.00
5 £150.00 11/08/2016 05/01/2017 25 £10.00
6 £250.00 31/08/2016 24/11/2016 16 £25.00
7 £300.00 24/11/2016 26/01/2017 16 £30.00
8 £150.00 05/01/2017 04/07/2017 25 £10.00
9 £350.00 26/01/2017 30/03/2017 16 £35.00
10 £400.00 30/03/2017 03/08/2017 16 £40.00
11 £300.00 03/08/2017 16/11/2017 16 £30.00
12 £150.00 14/09/2017 15/02/2018 25 £10.00
13 £400.00 16/11/2017 15/02/2018 16 £40.00
14 £150.00 15/02/2018 16/08/2018 25 £10.00
15 £400.00 15/02/2018 14/06/2018 16 £40.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week, per loan. So where more than one loan
is running at the same time, the weekly repayment will be larger. For example, loans 14 and
15 were advanced on the same day, so Miss A was contracted to pay STF £50 per week.
In response to Miss As complaint STF issued its final response letter in December 2020. In
the response it explained that Miss A had taken a total of 15 loans. STF didnt uphold
Miss As complaint because it said the checks were proportionate and there were no signs of
financial difficulties. Finally, there was nothing concerning in the credit file data that STF
found.
Unhappy with this response, Miss As representatives referred her complaint to this Service.
The adjudicator, reviewed Miss As complaint and she thought STF had acted reasonably
when it approved loans 1  4. She also thought that by loan 5, STF ought to have been
verifying the information Miss A declared to it about her situation. But the adjudicator didnt
have anything from Miss A to demonstrate what her financial position was at the time.
However, the adjudicator thought, that loans from and including loan 6 shouldnt have been
granted. In her view, the overall pattern of lending was now harmful for Miss A and so these
loans ought to not have been provided.
Neither Miss A nor her representative, responded to the adjudicators assessment.
STF disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, it said;
there was nothing wrong in the way STF dealt with Miss A;
it adhered to all the regulations that were applicable at the time and
it was only from November 2018 that STF had the ability for the agents to keep any evidence 
they gathered as part of the application, for example bank statements.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A could
repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending
was sustainable for Miss A. These factors include:
Miss A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss A. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time loan these loans were granted STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority, which has set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss As complaint.
Loans 6  15
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 - 15 were proportionate
and Ill explain why below.
But its worth saying STF has provided this Service with a detailed income and expenditure
information it gathered for Ms A for all her loans. It also seems, for some loans STF used
had sight of Miss As passport, bank statements and benefit award notices.
I would say, that based on the details in the application form and the later income and
expenditure assessments, STF couldve reasonably concluded that Miss A would be in a
position to afford the repayments she was committed to making.
But, that isnt the end of the matter, on top of carrying out a proportionate checks STF also
need to be mindful as to whether the loans were sustainable for Miss A, not just whether
they were pounds and pence affordable.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Miss A, STF also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during
the course of its lending relationship with Miss A. Having looked at the overall pattern of
STFs lending history with Miss A, I agree with our adjudicator that STF should reasonably
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it
provided loan 6. I say this because;
At this point STF ought to have realised Miss A was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Miss A had taken out six loans in nine months and she had been indebted to STF 
for the entire time. Miss As loan history up until this point clearly indicated that her underlying 
financial situation didnt seem to be improving.
Miss As capital borrowing had increased from £100 to £250 by loan 6. But loan 5 was still 
outstanding at the time loan 6 was granted. So, her overall indebtedness was significantly 
larger than the capital sum borrowed for the loan. This suggests to me that Miss As 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably, and she was likely needing further borrowing to 
cover ongoing living costs.
Miss A developed a pattern of taking new loans around the same time previous ones were 
repaid, for example, loans 2, 3 and 4. And by now Ms A and later on in the lending 
relationship Miss A had more than one loan running at the same time. Indeed, STF by the end 
granted two loans on the same day. This pattern continued throughout the lending 
relationship. So, STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss A, on these 
occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term financial need. To 
me, this is also indicative of her indebtedness not being sustainable.STF was also aware of the recently recorded CCJS, further suggesting that Miss A was 
having financial difficulties.
Miss A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed STF. Loan 15 was taken out 
just over two years after Miss As first loan. Loan 15 was for four times the amount of Miss As 
first loan, and as loan 14 was running at the same time, Miss As indebtedness was over five 
times as large as to when she started borrowing. Miss A had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service a debt to STF over an extended period.
I think that Miss A lost out when STF provided loans 6 - 15 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss As indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and the time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on Miss 
As ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, overall, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 2 - 15 and Ill go on to set out
what STF should do to put things right.
In response to the first provisional decision STF provided further information about its 
lending practices and when a credit searches were carried out. Having reviewed this 
information, it led to the second provisional decision being sent as below. 
Ive left the findings in about all the loans as these are the ones that are relevant for the 
outcome that Ive reached. 
The second provisional decision 
Given, STF has clarified further information about the types of checks for the earlier loans
Ive decided that I have to issue a second provisional decision, in order to reach a fair and
reasonable outcome on the complaint.
Im not going to restate here the test or what STF was required to do before each loan was
granted, because both parties were provided with this information in the first provisional
decision, as duplicated above.
Loan 1
Neither party has provided any more information about this loan, so for the same reasons
that I outlined in the provisional decision, I still dont think STF needs to pay compensation
for this loan because it carried out a proportionate check.
Loans 2  4
Given the new information STF has provided, my decision on these loans needs to change.
These loans were upheld on the basis that STF carried out a credit check before each loan,
and the credit check wouldve likely showed it that Miss A was having financial difficulties
due to the appearance of recently reported CCJs.
However, STF has now shown me that credit checks wouldnt have been carried out before
these loans were approved and knowing this information changes the outcome of the
complaint about these loans.
What STF needed to do before it granted each loan was to carry out a proportionate check 
there is no requirement in the regulations to have carried out a credit search let along one to
a required standard.
So, it seems, that a credit search wasnt carried out before these loans were advanced. This
means STF wouldnt have been aware of the CCJs and, the fact it didnt do a credit searchbefore each application isnt an error either because as Ive said, it wasnt required to do
one.
The consequences of this for Miss As case is that unless she told STF about the CCJs, and
to be clear, Ive not seen any evidence of this. I can only conclude STF wouldnt have been
aware of the CCJs and therefore these loans cant be upheld for this reason.
As I explained in the provisional decision, STF carried out the same sort of checks for these
loans as it did for loan 1. And based on the recent documents that STF carried out it
wouldve looked at Miss As repayment history for the previous loans and then considered
her declared income and expenditure. These applications show that on average Miss A had
around £340 per week disposable income to meet her largest weekly repayment of
£25. These loans wouldve looked affordable.
Based on this information STF gathered it wouldve likely concluded that Miss A could afford
the repayments she was committed to making for these loans. In conclusion, I think these
checks were now proportionate and STF was entitled to reply on the information Miss A had
provided.
Im therefore intending to not uphold Miss As complaint about these loans.
Loan 5
This loan was upheld in the first provisional decision because I thought based on what I saw,
that STF wouldve likely had seen that in the previous year Miss A had 3 CCJs recorded
against her.
Now, for the same reasons as loans 2  4 Im satisfied that STF didnt carry out a credit
search before this loan was granted, it therefore wouldnt have known about the CCJs at the
point of application based on the checks it did at the time the loan was approved.
The information Miss A provided to STF when the loan was advanced showed she had £322
of disposable income each week. Which was sufficient to afford the £10 per week payment
for this loan. STF had already factored into the affordability assessment the £25 weekly
repayment for loan 4. So, it wouldve appeared, to STF that this loan was also affordable.
However, by this point in time I no longer think STF could rely on Miss As repayment history
and declared income and expenditure before granting this loan. Instead I think by now STF
needed to have a full and clear picture of Miss As actual financial position.
I say this because, this was Miss As fifth loan in nine months, this was the first time her
loans had overlapped and her weekly repayments had increased from £10 per week at the
start of the lending relationship to now being committed to spending £35 per week. I think
these factors ought to have a led STF to have carried out furthermore in-depth checks.
STF couldve gone about verifying and gaining a full picture of Miss As financial situation a
number of ways. It couldve asked to see copies of her bank statements, wage slips, bills or
it couldve asked to see a copy of her credit file.
Had STF carried out, what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think it likely wouldve
discovered that within the last year Miss A had had 3 CCJs recorded against her for a
balance of almost £2,000. This to me indicates current financial difficulties because Miss A
wasnt in a position to service her current debts.
I also think STF wouldve likely discovered she had at last seven least seven outstanding
home credit loans with two other lenders. And, the repayment history for these loans was
concerning.
She was in arrears on most of these loans, and for at least one home credit loan, she had a
payment arrangement to pay the lender £1 per week towards the loan balance. This ought tohave alerted STF that Miss A couldnt sustainably take on any more debt.
Overall, a proportionate check wouldve likely shown Miss A was having long term and sustained 
financial difficulties. Indeed, she was having problems servicing similar types of loans with other 
lenders. And, STF ought to have been aware of this.
So, Im likely to conclude that STF shouldnt have granted loan 5 but for slightly different
reasons that I outlined in the first provisional decision.
Loans 6  15
I havent been provided with any new information about why these loans shouldnt but
upheld. So, for the same reasons that I outlined in the first provisional decision, I still think
STF was wrong to have granted these loans because by now, the lending had become
harmful for Miss A.
So, Im intending to conclude that STF was wrong to have provided loans 5  16 to Miss A.
Ive set out below what STF needs to do in order to put things right.
Response to the second provisional decision
Both parties were asked to provide any further information or comments they wanted the 
Financial Ombudsman to consider before 1 March 2022. 
Neither Miss A or her representative provided any further comments or evidence in relation 
to the second provisional decision, and what I was intending to conclude that STF should put 
things right for her for loans 5  15. 
STF did respond to the second provisional decision and in summary it said;
It agrees with the decision to uphold Miss A complaint from loan six onwards. 
STF says it wouldnt have known about the CCJs on Miss As credit file because it 
didnt do credit searches before each loan application (at this time). 
As it was unaware of the CCJS it did nothing wrong in advancing loan five. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what STF has said in response to the second provisional 
decision but I still think it was wrong to have granted loan five. 
Im only focussing on this loan in this part of the decision because neither party appears to 
have disagreed with the outcome I was intending to reach in relation to loans 1  4. 
In addition, STF has offered to put things right for Miss A for loans 6  15. So, as far as I can 
see, these loans are no longer in dispute, so I no longer think I need to make a finding about 
them. But I have included these in the putting things right section at the end of this decision. 
In relation to loan five, I accept given the information STF provided in response to the first 
provisional decision that it didnt do a credit check before this loan, and so it wouldnt have, 
as part of the application known about the CCJs.But this argument is in my mind only relevant if I considered the checks for loan five to be 
proportionate  so that SFT didnt need to do more before advancing loan five. But I do think 
the checks needed to go further.  
As part of my findings for this loan, I didnt think the checks STF did were proportionate and 
it was no longer reasonable to have solely relied on the information Miss A was providing. 
Instead, as I explained in the second provisional decision, it needed to do further, more in-
depth checks in order to gain a complete and accurate understanding of Miss As financial 
overall position. 
Had STF carried out further checks before advancing the fifth loan, as I think it ought to have 
done, then I think at this point it is entirely reasonable that it wouldve likely discovered the 
CCJs. In turn, knowing about these CCJs and how recent they were, STF wouldve taken 
the decision not to advance further lending because it wouldve been apparent that Miss A 
was likely having financial difficulties.  
On top of STFs offer to refund loans 6  15 I also think it has to pay compensation for loan 
five as well. 
So, for the same reasons I reached in the second provisional decision Im upholding 
Miss As complaint about loans 5  15.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss A from loan 5 as I think it ought to.
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss A may have simply left matters there
and not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and STF which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option,
she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even
possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss A in a compliant
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss A would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Miss A loans 5 - 15.
A. STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss A towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans.
B. STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss A which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss A originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. STF should pay Miss A A plus B.
D. STF should remove any adverse information recorded on her credit file about loan 5. 
The overall pattern of Miss As borrowing for loans 6 - 15 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so STF should remove these loans entirely from 
Miss As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Miss A
a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the second provisional decision, Im upholding 
Miss As complain in part. 
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right for Miss A as direct above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman