DRN-2656697
The complaint
Mr S complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk lent to 
him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from MoneyBoat and Mr S here is a brief Loan Table of approved loans. 
Loan 
NoDate 
takenDate 
repaid Instalments CapitalInterest 
(rounded) Repayments
rounded 
(whole term)
1 27/11/2019 09/01/2020 4 £300 £70 £93 (£370)
2 10/01/2020 05/03/2020 5 £200 £61 £52 (£261)
3 06/03/2020 O/S 6 £500 £222 £120 (£722)
 
Mr S has demonstrated to us that Loan 1 was approved for £600 and he asked for it to be 
reduced to £300. 
 
For Loan 1 the instalment structure was that just under £93 was due on day 22 after taking 
the loan, followed by three additional payments of just under £93 each week until the last 
repayment on 9 January 2020. This translated into about £370 being paid within one month 
of the first payment.
 
Loan 2 was similar which translated into £261 being paid within one month (5 instalments) of 
the first payment on 6 February 2020. 
Loan 3 were six instalments of about £120 each, which translated into £722 being scheduled 
to be repaid between 16 April and 21 May 2020. Mr S is repaying Loan 3 at £10. I do not 
know if that is each week or each month.
MoneyBoat sent to us the credit search results it did before approving each loan. One of our 
adjudicators thought that those search results demonstrated too much existing and 
outstanding debt for Mr S to be able to afford Loans 1 to 3 from MoneyBoat. 
Mr S has accepted our adjudicators view and MoneyBoat has not responded. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
Having looked at the repayment structures for each loan, and having reviewed MoneyBoats 
credit search results carried out for Mr S, then I am of the same view as our adjudicator. 
I uphold Mr S complaint for each of the approved loans. 
I say this because at the time of taking Loan 1 these credit checks showed that Mr S had two 
other short term loans outstanding as well as eight other unsecured loans, four of which had 
been taken in the previous four months. His total debt balances for the loans ranged from 
around £8,000 to £16,800 and he had several loans which were in default. 
My decision is that on its own checks and information provided, MoneyBoat has 
demonstrated that Mr S was not likely able to afford these loans in conjunction with the other 
credit commitments Mr S had to repay. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might have happened had it stopped lending to [consumer] from loan 1, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from another lender. If this wasnt a viable option, they may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat ought to put things right for Mr S. We understand that Mr S still owes money on 
Loan 3. If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if its able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat is not able to buy the debt back then 
MoneyBoat should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything MoneyBoat have already refunded.
B) MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr S having 
made overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. 
MoneyBoat shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal MoneyBoat 
have already written-off.
E) MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file 
in relation to loans 1 to 3.*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr S a certificate showing the tax deduction if he asks for one.  
My final decision
 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct that Evergreen Finance London 
Limited  trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman