DRN-4330733
The complaint
Mr J complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) have discriminated against him when 
trying to obtain a car insurance quote.
Reference to Covea includes its agents/representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr J tried to get a car insurance quote via Coveas appointed representative.
Mr J made Covea aware that he needed a quote in letter format and couldnt 
receive it via email due to his medical conditions.
Covea couldnt generate a quote it explained its communications are issued via 
an automated system and to maintain communication it would need an email 
address.
Mr J had to spend time getting a policy elsewhere and hes unhappy that Covea 
didnt acknowledge how it could improve its service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended Covea compensate Mr 
J £150 for the inconvenience caused. 
Covea disagreed with the investigators view, saying that it couldnt generate a 
quote without an email address, it offered to put a friend or family email address 
of Mr Js into the system to generate the quote and said it could then send 
documents by post, as all emails are backed up with a letter in the post. 
As Covea didnt accept the outcome the complaint has been passed to me, an 
Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our services role to instruct Covea to change their process or get a new system. 
However, if their current set up doesnt work for someone who requires a reasonable 
adjustment, then we can consider the impact of Covea not being able to help Mr J.
Not having, or wanting to, use an email address isnt an unusual situation for some people. I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect Covea to have a process in place or an alternative 
system, or way of generating, a quote in these instances. I appreciate Covea has said its an 
online- based company but given that it provides letters, emails, and phone-calls it is clearly 
capable of different forms of communication. 
On the relevant car insurance website, it doesnt show what accessibility provisions Covea 
have in place. If a potential customer wants a new quote, they can either do this online or 
call Covea. It doesnt mention that an email address is needed to generate a quote.
I understand Covea can put in place processes to help people who need reasonable 
adjustments when they become a customer. But I dont think its unreasonable for potential 
customers to expect that a reasonable adjustment could be made to obtain a quote when the 
website directs them to use their online service or call them.
I understand it offered to put a family member or friends email address into the system to 
generate the quote, but I can understand why Mr J may not have wanted his data being 
shared with others.
Ive considered the impact to Mr J in the circumstances of this complaint, and I recognise 
that hes been inconvenienced and feels that hes been discriminated against. As I feel 
Covea couldve done more to help Mr J, I agree with our investigator that a compensation 
amount of £150 should be awarded.
Putting things right
I direct Covea Insurance plc to:
Pay Mr J £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Covea must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr J accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman