DRN-3069738
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly reduced the credit limit on his account
without notice which meant he couldnt transfer a refund paid into the account.
What happened
Mr S says he made a payment into his credit card account in August 2020 so that he could
pay for flights. He says he used £1,000 of his girlfriends savings and cancelled the flights
sometime later. Mr S says he asked if the refund could be paid back to a different account
but was told it couldnt. He says the refund was paid into his Barclays credit card account
and it then reduced his credit limit. Mr S says he didnt receive the credit limit reduction limit
letter until after the decision was made and would like the credit limit reinstated to allow him
to withdraw his money.
Barclays says its entitled to review its customers credit limits and says in December 2020
decided to reduce Mr Ss credit limit. It says the flight refund was made on 10 December
2020 and it decided some days later to reduce the credit limit. Barclays says the account is
now closed and it acted in line with account terms and conditions.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and says Barclays actions resulted in him losing £1,000 of
his savings for no reason and also says its records of his income is wrong. Our investigator
upheld the complaint and thought Barclays should have carried our reasonable and
proportionate checks before reducing the credit limit. The investigator thought the credit limit
reduction unfair and without notice despite Mr S making required monthly repayments. The
investigator didnt think making the minimum payments was evidence of financial difficulties
and didnt think adequate checks were carried out. And thought Barclays ought to have
contacted Mr S about the reduction and checked his income. The investigator recommended
Barclays pay £150 compensation.
Mr S maintains he is still £1,000 short.
Barclays doesnt accept that view and says it acted responsibly and in line with account
terms and conditions.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said I didnt think Barclays had acted 
unfairly or made a mistake.
I looked carefully at Mr Ss account terms and conditions which I thought he would have
agreed to when the account was first opened. I said those terms and conditions made clear 
that Barclays is entitled to review a credit limit at any stage and will assess risk. The terms 
and conditions go on to say that Barclays may not give notice about a change or reduction to 
a credit limit but may give seven days notice. I could see from Barclays records that the 
refund was credited to Mr Ss account on 10 December 2020 and it wrote to him on 14 
December 2020 to tell him his credit limit would reduce to £250 on 16 December 2020. I 
appreciated Mr S didnt receive that letter until after that date.
So, I said I was satisfied that Barclays acted in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions by reducing the credit limit and didnt act unfairly or make a mistake by doing so. I 
didnt think, in line with those terms and conditions, that Barclays was required to provide 
notice of the credit limit reduction. I was also satisfied that Barclays must consider its 
customers accounts and the risk of allowing unaffordable lending. I looked at Mr Ss account 
statements and I thought on balance that for some significant time Mr Ss balance was close 
to his credit limit and that he largely made repayments close to the minimum amount. So, I 
didnt think Barclays acted unfairly by making a commercial decision in line with its attitude to 
risk and taking into account the affordability of the credit limit by reducing it.
I appreciated the investigators view that Barclays could have spoken to Mr S about the
reduction and clarified his income. I didnt think Barclays was obliged to do so or that the
income amount was relevant, as I thought it was the account management that was 
important. I also thought that its up to Barclays to make such decisions when exercising its 
commercial judgement and that it is not always appropriate to tell a customer that a credit 
limit is being reduced before its is done.
I said that I appreciated Mr S says he has lost £1,000. But I didnt think Mr S had lost out 
financially, as he owed Barclays the money which has now been repaid. I said I cant fairly 
order Barclays reopen the account and cant see how Mr S could receive the £1,000 now.
As I provisionally thought Barclays has acted in line with the account terms and conditions 
then I didnt think compensation was appropriate.
I said that Barclays hadnt told us if it reviewed Mr Ss credit file before making the decision 
to reduce the credit limit. So, I hoped it could clarify that before my final decision, as well as 
provide information on its policy in these circumstances about a customer withdrawing a 
refund where there is a balance owed. I also hoped Mr S would provide a copy of his credit 
file which I could see the investigator requested on a number of occasions. I said that I 
hoped Mr S could also explain why he says he lost the £1,000 when I think he owed 
Barclays the money.
Barclays has replied to my provisional decision and says it would only refund customers in 
these circumstances where there was a credit balance.
Mr S says this wasnt just his money but that of his partner and he maintains he lost out 
financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same view that I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons.
I have made clear that I dont think Mr S suffered an overall financial loss as he clearly owed 
Barclays the money. And I dont think Barclays was obliged to refund customers in these 
circumstances unless there was a credit balance.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman