DRN-3980645
The complaint
Mrs A complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) about a £46960 investment in 
a 3 Year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond she made with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc) 
in July 2017. She says she was mis-sold the bond by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd) and 
lost her money as a result. Mrs A says she was told the bond was safe, secure and 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protected.
Mrs A is represented by her husband, Mr A, so when referring in this decision to things said 
or done by Mrs A, I refer to things said or done by her or by Mr A on her behalf.
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs A invested £46,960 into the 3 Year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond (the bond). 
Gallium has said the investment was made on 3 July 2017 and this is also the date on the 
bond certificate. Sales of the bond were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from the 
bond issuer B&G Plc. BG Ltd arranged applications for investment in the bond, through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018. 
Mrs As investment in the bond
From what Mrs A has said, she came into contact with BG Ltd through her husband who had 
come into contact with BG Ltd online. 
Im satisfied Mrs A made an online application. This is in line with what Gallium has told us 
about the application process being online  including that investors could only apply online. 
To transfer her existing ISA to BG Ltd there was also a BG Ltd transfer form for Mrs A to fill 
in. This paper form didnt replicate the online process in which Mrs A could select an investor 
profile, such as that of everyday investor. Nor did it replicate that part of Galliums online 
process that was directed towards an appropriateness test. With those points in mind, the 
paper form doesnt seem to have been supposed to replace or remove the need to make an 
online application. This reinforces my view that Mrs A made an online application.
Mrs As paper transfer form is dated 28 June 2017. The bond certificate says 3 July 2017 
was the application date, which is also the date Gallium gave for Mrs As bond investment. 
System records say an everyday investor tag was added for Mrs A on 21 June 2017 and an 
investment questionnaire tag on 22 June 2017. I note that both these dates pre-date Mrs As 
paper ISA transfer form  which also reinforces my view that she made an online application.
I havent received for this case any call recordings that pre-date the 3 July 2017 application 
date and in which the bond investment is discussed or referred to. The call Ive heard that 
includes reference to this bond investment is from after the application date and refers to a 
refund of £7 for Mrs A  which appears related to the requirement, stated on the ISA transfer 
form, for ISA transfer contributions to be in increments of £10. As this call took place after 
the bond application date and doesnt appear related to the sale of the bond but rather to 
administration after the sale, Ive not relied on the contents of this call in the findings Ive 
reached. Nor have I relied upon the contents of any other calls.
From what Mrs A has told us, she was investing more than 70% of her savings (she held 
savings in cash accounts elsewhere) and her investment with BG Ltd represented over 10% 
of her investible assets. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs A wanted to take significant risk 
with her invested funds or had prior experience of risk of the kind involved with her 
investment in the bond or had taken significant risk in the past with such a significant 
proportion of her savings.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs A 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mrs A underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mrs A 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
The paper transfer form contains a few questions about investment knowledge and 
experience to answer by indicating either yes or no. The form doesnt describe the 
questions as being for or part of a certification process or appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Mrs As complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs As complaint. It said Mrs A had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs As 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs As complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
Our investigator said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs A as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for her - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. Had it 
done so, Mrs A wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded that it 
shouldnt allow Mrs A to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it 
was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs A for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs As complaint.
Regardless of label, Mrs A was required to confirm she met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed she did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude that the 
use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs A giving an incorrect declaration, and it 
was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
These confirmations and the appropriateness test answers were sufficient for Gallium to 
satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of the 
bond to understand the risks the bond involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs A made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear, and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs A into certifying herself as belonging in a 
category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term used 
in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one anyone 
could fall into. This was not treating Mrs A fairly or acting in her best interests. Had 
BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs A, it is unlikely she would have certified 
herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the bond 
was not an appropriate investment for Mrs A. In the circumstances, Mrs A would either 
not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it 
should not promote the bond to Mrs A.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs As complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied that had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations, Mrs A would either not have proceeded to make the investment or 
would not have been able to proceed. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs A for her loss. 
In reaching this view I note Mrs A completed a paper ISA application form containing a few 
questions about investment knowledge and experience. But she wouldnt have been able to 
apply for the ISA had she not been certified as a restricted (everyday) investor and passed 
the appropriateness test. And the questions on the form in my view arent sufficient to 
remove or remedy the shortcomings Ive outlined in those processes as they pertained to 
Mrs A in the circumstances here. I say this bearing in mind the questions on the form werent 
described as being for the purpose of classification or appropriateness testing in any event.
Also I find Mrs A suffered distress and inconvenience due to losing her capital and not 
having it available to rely on or fall back on in her retirement.
Putting things right  fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs A 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if Gallium had properly carried out and 
fulfilled its obligations and duties.
I take the view that Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs A fairly, Gallium Fund Solutions Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mrs A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mrs A £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by Galliums 
failings.Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Three-Year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
IFISA BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
As the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market), the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs A agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs A that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs A wanted to achieve a reasonable return and I do not think she wanted to take 
significant risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs A's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs A would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with 
little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs A in a clear, 
simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman