DRN-2503308
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc arranged the renewal of her car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2019 Sainsburys emailed Miss H to notify her that her policy was due for renewal 
on 1 November 2019. It said the renewal price would be £897.50, which Miss H intended to 
repay in monthly instalments under a credit agreement, as she did the year before.
Miss H says she received this notification. However, the underwriter of the policy contacted 
Sainsburys a few days later to say it wouldnt be able to offer cover for Miss H at renewal 
after all. 
On the same day Sainsburys arranged alternative insurance for Miss H for renewal, but this 
was at a higher price of £1,230.91. Sainsburys emailed Miss H on the same day to notify 
her of the renewal price in the same way as it did before. 
Miss H says she didnt receive anything from Sainsburys to tell her that the premium had 
changed from £897.50. She noticed that the monthly instalment in November 2019 was 
about £40 more than she expected, so she contacted Sainsburys.
Miss H was unhappy with Sainsburys explanation. So she complained. In the meantime she 
cancelled her policy and looked for alternative insurance elsewhere. Miss H says that as a 
result of Sainsburys failure to tell her about the premium, she ended up paying almost £300 
for car insurance in November 2019. 
Our investigator said that he was satisfied that Sainsburys had acted reasonably. It had 
provided screenshots to show it had emailed Miss H on 18 October 2019 with the revised 
premium amount before the renewal date. 
Miss H didnt agree. She says Sainsburys hasnt proved it contacted her. She believes it 
should have honoured the premium even if the underwriter was no longer able to offer cover 
for that price. So she wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys has provided screenshots which show an email in the same format as a copy of 
the email Sainsburys first sent Miss H in October 2019  which Miss H provided us with a 
copy of. Sainsburys said it issued a revised renewal invitation to Miss H. But it says Miss H 
didnt open the revised invitation via their online portal. 
I understand Miss H doesnt believe Sainsburys sent an email to her. And Sainsburys is 
unable to provide a physical copy of the email. But it has been able to provide screenshots 
to show that an email was sent to the email address it held for Miss H on 18 October 2019 at 
15:12:36. So from the information available, Im satisfied that an email was sent. 
I appreciate that Miss H was upset to discover that a higher than expected premium had 
been collected from her account and this prompted her to contact Sainsburys. 
As things stand, Sainsburys correctly charged its cancellation fee in line with the policy - as 
it notified Miss H of the change in her renewal premium before the policy started. These fees 
are set out under both sets of renewal documents sent to Miss H in October 2019. However, 
Sainsburys waived its cancellation fee and so Miss H only paid for the days she was 
insured. I think this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Sainsburys is the administrator of the policy. The underwriter decides what the premium 
should be based on the risk they are prepared to undertake. And the underwriter deals with 
any claims made under a policy. So Sainsburys has no control over the underwriters 
decision to no longer provide cover. I dont think it was ideal that the underwriter made this 
decision two weeks before the renewal date  and after it had clearly led Sainsburys to 
believe renewal terms were available for the price of £897.50. But this isnt something 
Sainsburys is responsible for. 
I think it arranged alternative cover for Miss H promptly  and this still gave Miss H time to 
shop around before the renewal date.
Miss H says she had to pay an extra amount to another insurer on the same day as she 
complained to Sainsburys because she cancelled her policy. Shes unhappy we havent 
considered this point. 
I appreciate that Miss H was very unhappy with the outcome of her contact with Sainsburys 
which caused her to complain. But as I think Sainsburys acted fairly, I cant say that it 
should compensate Miss H for her decision to cancel her policy. It was this decision that 
meant she had to pay an additional amount when buying a new policy elsewhere. 
I realise Miss H will be very disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I dont think Sainsburys did anything wrong. So this means Im not asking it to do 
any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman