DRN-3672386
The complaint
Mr E complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of two defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension schemes (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Tenet Connect Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things simple Ill 
refer to Tenet. I will also refer to the two pensions schemes as Scheme T and Scheme 
W respectively.
What happened
Mr E approached Tenet to discuss his pension and retirement needs in 2017. His 
relationship with Tenet stretched out over a few months, during which his circumstances 
evolved slightly. However, the information Tenet gathered about Mr E in early 2017 was 
broadly as follows:
Mr E was over 65 years old and was still working  although he retired during this 
same year. His employment income just ahead of retirement was around £27,000 per 
year. However, Mr E was also already drawing a pension of around £14,700 per year 
from a previous and unrelated pension.
Mr E was married with grown up children. His wife, Mrs E, was aged 62. She too still 
worked and earned £10,000 per year. Their savings comprised of various liquid bank 
accounts and shares, which totaled around £90,000. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Es two pensions were 
approximately £143,000 (Scheme T) and £151,000 (Scheme W). Mr E had already 
reached the normal retirement age for both these schemes.
Mr E also had some other small defined contribution pension pots. These do not 
form part of this complaint  one was valued at approximately £15,000 and the other 
at £2,500. Both Mr and Mrs E were entitled to state pensions said to be around 
£8,100 per year each.
Mr and Mrs E fully owned their house with no mortgage.
In February 2017, Tenet advised Mr E to transfer out of Scheme T. In June 2017, it advised 
him to transfer out of Scheme W. The advice in both cases was to transfer to a personal 
pension scheme and invest in funds commensurate with Mr Es attitude to risk which Tenet 
classified as cautious balanced.
Mr E says he was given unsuitable advice by Tenet. The complaint was referred to our 
Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we shouldnt uphold it. 
Mr E did not agree with our investigator. 
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint several weeks ago and asked for either 
party to send in any more information or evidence they wanted me to consider. I said I was 
minded to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
I havent been sent anything that changes my view, so my final decision now is based mainly 
on what Ive already set out previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding the complaint. 
Introduction
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Tenet should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied these two transfers were in his best interests.
When assessing the suitability of DB pension transfer advice, we normally expect 
businesses to explain why they thought transferring-out was in the consumers best interests 
from a financial viability perspective. To do this, we usually expect advisors to explain what 
levels of growth the pension funds might achieve outside the scheme, so we can assess 
whether transferring out of the DB scheme to a personal pension was the right thing to do. 
Typically a metric known as the critical yield is used to help demonstrate how much a 
pension would need to grow by to match the DB schemes that were transferred. There were 
also periods when the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our 
website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was 
being upheld. 
In this case, however, Ive noted Tenet hasnt provided these figures but has used some 
cash-flow examples in its suitability letters to show how Mr Es two pension transfer values 
would have lasted in his retirement years. Because of Mr Es age  he was already at the 
point of actual retirement  I think the critical yield figures and the discount rates we normally 
use wouldnt have been of much relevance given he was already around the normal 
retirement age for both schemes. 
Ive therefore looked at everything else weve been sent to help me think about whether 
transferring out of these two schemes could be said to have been in Mr Es best interests. A 
fact-find was completed in December 2016 which provides a useful insight to Mr Es 
retirement plans and the type of issues he was looking for advice on. Ive noted, for instance, 
he seemed to like the idea of having some cash available in case it was needed in his 
retirement, but he was also concerned that should he die, Mrs Es income might not be 
enough for her to maintain a reasonable lifestyle. Mr E was also keen on exploring how his 
children and grandchildren might be left money in the event of his passing.
Tenet later issued two suitability letters  one in respect of each of Mr Es two pensions. The 
first suitability letter, issued on 14 February 2017, related to Scheme T. The second 
suitability letter, issued on 21 June 2017, was about Scheme W. I think its fair to say that at 
the point of the first letter Mr E was still working, but he was very close to retiring, whilst at the point of the second letter he had actually retired. However, other than this, I think we can 
say Mr Es other circumstances, and his retirement aspirations, were broadly the same.
Scheme T
In issuing the suitability letter about Scheme T, Tenet said it had reviewed his income and 
retirement benefits and would also provide a cash flow analysis of how a transferred-out 
pension might fare during his retirement years. It also identified the following retirement 
needs Mr E had at the time:
ensure your beneficiaries benefit from your pension provisions in the event of your 
death either prior to or after retirement
the ability to access large cash sums if needed 
I think these things that were listed by Tenet were somewhat generic retirement needs and 
aspirations, and they are ones likely to be shared by a great many people. Mr Es main 
beneficiary, Mrs E, would already have been able to benefit from the spouses pension 
available from scheme T. And at 60% of his annual pension, this was a good benefit to have. 
I think its also highly relevant in this case that Mr and Mrs E already had substantial 
amounts of cash available. 
Indeed, the whole tone of the suitability letter was that Mr E was always going to transfer out 
of scheme T, and his apparent desire to have access to cash from his pension was, in my 
view, unspecific. Other than general comments about taking holidays and no doubt enjoying 
the comfort having additional savings might bring, there seems no basis for having the 
amount of cash transferring this pension would release.
I also think the approach taken by Tenet conflicts with the starting point recommended by 
the regulator, which is that such transfers will probably not be suitable. I noted, for example, 
that Tenet said it was going to include a cash-flow analysis (in retirement) at the outset of the 
letter, thus indicating that transferring Mr Es pension was always going to be the prominent 
feature in its advice. In addition to this, the letter consistently refers to Mr E already having 
various income sources, which Tenet said made further income from scheme T 
unnecessary.
In this respect, the letter noted Mr E had a guaranteed income through an existing DB 
pension which he was already drawing from and earning £14,772 per year. He was also 
entitled to a state pension of over £8,100 per year. Mrs E was also still working at the time 
and the implication was that she too would soon be able to access a state pension of a 
similar value. So, with these incomes available to them Tenet said that Mr E should 
comfortably be able to cover his day-today living expenses, without the need for more 
income to be added from scheme T. 
With these things in mind, the suitability letter said Mr E was happy with the guaranteed 
income he already benefitted from. And Tenet also said Mr E had himself agreed he didnt 
see a need for an additional guaranteed income stream such as the one offered by scheme 
T at this point in his life. It said he would prefer to have access to a larger lump-sum fund  
meaning he should transfer around £143,000 out of Scheme T. Tenet added Mr E wanted to 
leave some money to his children and grandchildren for them to enjoy in years to come. 
The suitability letter recommended Mr E should transfer out to a personal pension plan on 
this basis.
Did these reasons justify advising Mr E to transfer-out of his pension?
Ive considered all these issues with great care. Ive also noted that Tenet hasnt relied so 
much on demonstrating that Mr Es pension could grow more outside Scheme T rather than 
leaving it where it was - instead, its advice was almost entirely predicated on him having enough income already and a desire to hold large amounts of cash for future use. The death 
benefits were also an issue.
However, I think Tenets rationale was flawed.
When providing regulated financial advice, Tenets job wasnt simply to transact what Mr E 
thought he wanted. Its job was to really understand his needs and provide advice that was in 
his best interests. 
I can accept that Mr E may have found the prospect of having access to a substantial 
amount of additional cash a good idea at the time. And Im sure he may have been tempted 
to think it would be of use to make big purchases in his retirement years or treat his loved 
ones as he saw fit. 
However, the main purpose of this pension was that it was an important component in Mr Es 
overall retirement provision. Taking account of his other income at that time, we can say this 
would have been around £23,000 as he began his retirement years. Whilst this might be 
more than some retirees can hope for, it was by no means a large income. Longer term care 
issues, increasing monthly expenditures and the cost of living were all matters that ought to 
have been considered by Tenet when providing the advice; and Tenet should have been 
drawing these types of issues to Mr Es attention in a more meaningful way. Tenet should 
also have been mindful of the drop in income that would be caused by Mr Es death and the 
possibility of Mrs E outliving him by several years.
Left within the DB pension structure, Mr Es scheme T pension was estimated to pay him 
£5,379 per year. This pension was paid for life and included other useful benefits and 
guarantees, such as index-linking and a widows pension of £3,227. On the other hand, the 
recommended personal pension contained no such guarantees and any death benefits - 
which I explain later - were subject to quite different considerations.
In short, what Im saying here is that adding £5,379 to Mr Es income certainly wasnt going 
to be of no use to him in his retirement years. I think he could have also accessed some tax-
free cash from this scheme, which would have aligned with his apparent objectives of having 
more cash available. In this scenario his scheme T income would have been slightly less. Im 
afraid I think comments such as Mr E having no use for additional income to lack credibility. 
Ive said above, for example, that Mr E did consider income to be a potential issue for Mrs E 
if he died. So, I think this apparent disregard for additional retirement income is likely to have 
come from the advisor and used to justify the overall recommendation. It did not take Mr E to 
another income-tax bracket and as it represented a life-long income, with a 60% widows 
pension, it was in his interests to use the pension in the way in which it was originally 
intended.
Even if I could accept that taking benefits from the scheme could leave Mr E with excess 
income, I think the adviser ought to have advised Mr E that he could redirect this back into 
his savings, or another tax-efficient vehicle, such as a trust. This wouldve allowed him to 
build his savings further or provide a legacy for his children.
Ive also considered the cash-flow models which Tenet set out in the suitability letter. It 
implied these helped to show how Mr E could have met his retirement needs by transferring 
out of scheme T to a personal pension. However, I disagree with this. These were not like-
for-like comparisons with the scheme Mr E was in  the cashflow model was based on Mr E 
taking the starting pension amount from the scheme but without any increases - and Ive 
noted certain assumptions were made, including the returns of the recommended investment 
portfolios probably being based on historic investment returns. Past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and I also think the models were heavily summarised in 
the suitability letter to an extent Mr E would have found difficult to comprehend - the data behind the assumptions was not comprehensive enough for Mr T to come to an informed 
decision about what to do.
Finally, I considered the issue of death benefits. Tenet implied the death benefits were better 
for him under the personal pension it was recommending. However, I disagree. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was possibly an attractive feature to Mr E. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits were important to Mr E, and he might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr E 
was married and so the spouses pension, in particular, provided by the DB scheme would 
have been useful if Mr E predeceased his wife. We know from Tenets own suitability letter 
that this was important to Mr E. Scheme T had very good death benefits and I dont think 
Tenet made the value of these benefits clear enough to Mr E. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. Tenet should not have encouraged Mr E to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
In any event whether the death benefits were improved following a transfer depended on 
how much remained in the pension funds at the point of Mr Es passing. Given average life 
expectancy, and the size of these funds, it was always likely that the funds would be 
depleted prior to Mr Es death, potentially providing little or no death benefits at all. 
For these reasons a transfer out of scheme T certainly wasnt in Mr Es best interests. By 
transferring out, Mr E was giving up a guaranteed index-linked income with a number of 
useful and long-term benefits. In my view, Mr E simply didnt need access to more cash and 
the reasons given for wanting it were at best, vague. I also dont think sufficient emphasis 
was placed on the tax-free lump sum Mr E couldve taken from the scheme, which met his 
objective of providing for more cash savings.
Scheme W
The suitability letter for this scheme lagged behind that from the scheme T letter, mainly due 
to the delays in obtaining a current CETV, which was approximately £151,000. Around 
£8,700 of this was offered by scheme W as a top-up if Mr W transferred out. 
When it was issued on 21 June 2017, Mr E as expected, had retired from his job. Tenet 
identified the following retirement needs Mr E had at the time:
ensure your beneficiaries benefit from your pension in the event of your death
increase flexibility in taking pension benefits in addition to your guaranteed income 
from your [other DB pension] and state pensions
To give [Mrs E] flexibility in retirement upon your death
Essentially the issues in the case of this second scheme were broadly the same as those 
before. Mrs E was still working but moving closer to retirement. However, while I noted many 
similarities in the two suitability letters  mainly the theme about Mr E not needing additional 
retirement income - I can see there was also mention of Mr T being keen on not paying too 
much income tax. I also noted the desire for flexibility. Ive considered these issues in turn,For the first issue, I think Tenet was implying that the additional income from scheme T 
would simply add to Mr Es tax burden. And of course, I accept that paying as little tax as 
possible will probably always be near the top of a pensioners consideration. However, this 
income, nor the scheme T income before it, would have propelled Mr E into a higher tax 
bracket. So I dont think this apparent objective bears much scrutiny. Its true Mr E may have 
been able to access 25% of his pension funds tax-free in a personal pension, but this could 
have also broadly happened if hed remained in either DB scheme, which I dont think was 
ever realistically explored.
I also think the apparent desire for flexibility was poorly defined and again, no more than a 
generic comment from Tenet, unspecific to Mr Es circumstances. I cant see that Mr E had a 
particular need for flexibility in retirement. This is because I dont think he had a genuine 
need to access more cash and I also cant see evidence that Mr E had a strong need for 
variable income throughout his retirement. From what Ive seen, Mr E was an organised 
individual with a good grip on his day-to-day financial affairs. So, Im satisfied Mr E could 
have met all his needs in retirement by remaining in scheme W. This could have delivered 
an income of £6,721 per year, or a reduced pension of £4,607 with a tax-free lump-sum of 
£30,717.
I additionally considered whether there were any other reasons for Mr E to transfer to a 
personal pension such as him wanting to exercise personal control of his pension 
investments. Although this point hasnt been specifically raised, I think its implicit in some of 
the rationale in Tenets suitability letter(s). However, as Mr E was already in two DB pension 
schemes managed on his behalf and his membership required very little, if any, effort from 
him, I dont think theres anything in this case showing that Mr E had either the capacity or 
desire to manage his pension investments.
As regards the death benefits, I note these were slightly more prominent in the case of 
scheme W and its suitability letter. However, my view on this is identical to what Ive set out 
above. Mr E needed to balance his income needs (and Mrs Es if he died) with the 
substantial guarantees and benefits hed be giving up by transferring out to a personal 
pension plan. And as Ive comprehensively explained, those guarantees simply werent 
worth giving up in his case.
There is one more issue to mention with regard to scheme W. This relates to the top-up 
offer of £8,700 I mentioned earlier. Having looked at the recommendation Mr E was given by 
Tenet, my conclusion is that this uplift did not materially affect either Tenets advice to him, 
or the action Mr E was prepared to take. Although in its own right this is a significant amount, 
it represented a small percentage increase in the CETV and Ive seen no evidence this 
changed anything that happened. 
Financial comparisons
The issue of financial viability is one I mentioned at the outset. In general terms its often 
useful to make comparisons about the value of DB versus private schemes in determining 
whether transferring out was in the best interests of the consumer. And I explained why, in 
this case, we couldnt really use direct growth comparisons due to Mr Es age and the stage 
hed reached in his life. I also mentioned that Tenet does not attempt to make a case for the 
transferred-out funds growing by so much as to make leaving the pensions where they were 
an unsuitable thing to do. 
However, I noted that in the scheme W suitability letter a comparison was made with buying 
an annuity with certain death benefits and I think this comparison offers a window into just 
how valuable Mr Es DB pensions were likely to be. Tenets analysis showed scheme Ws 
annual income was significantly higher than hed get from buying an annuity  even one which probably had less guarantees and benefits than the scheme hed be leaving. In my 
view, this goes some way in demonstrating how valuable these types of DB scheme were.
In short, it helps show the worth of the pension Mr E was advised to give up. 
Suitability of investments 
Tenet recommended that Mr E invest his funds in a personal pension plan. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB schemes wasnt suitable for Mr E, 
it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This 
is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment 
in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
In my decision I have explained why it wasnt in Mr Es best interests to transfer out of either 
of his two DB pension schemes. 
I dont doubt that the issues raised by Tenet, such as more access to cash through a 
personal pension, or apparently more flexible death benefits could have sounded like 
attractive features to Mr E at the time. But Tenets rationale was based almost wholly on two 
things: that Mr E did not need more income and so he wanted cash lump sums instead; and 
that the death benefits of a personal plan were more attractive.
However, Ive shown that Mr E simply didnt need additional lump-sums of cash. In a low-
interest environment it would have been of limited use, particularly as he already had up to 
£90,000 which was reasonably accessible to him. The need for cash was also very poorly 
defined; Tenet was unable to present any real reason why it was needed. I also considered 
the comments made by Tenet that Mr E just didnt need more income added to that which he 
already had. I think this argument is weak; Mr E was entering retirement on an acceptable 
income, rather than from a position of real affluence. So, I think the income from both 
schemes, guaranteed for life and with a spouses pension as they were, would have been of 
much more use to him and Mrs E. His aspiration to have money on hand to use for holidays 
or spend on other things could have been met from that income or the existing savings they 
had.
Finally, I explained about the potential for more flexible death benefits. Like the other 
objectives listed in the suitability letters, my view is that these were simply generic benefits 
most likely to have been put forward by Tenet, rather than Mr E himself. The death benefits 
in his existing schemes were very good and substantially underplayed by Tenet. As far as 
passing on money after his death more flexibly, I note life whole-term insurance was 
considered as being too expensive. And at 65 years old, I think life insurance was probably 
not the right product to be advising Mr E to buy, even a shorter-term type which would have 
been expensive. But thats not to say Mr and Mrs E didnt have other assets to pass on. As 
Ive said, they owned their own home, had savings and I note Tenet referred to Mrs E 
potentially inheriting a 50% share of a property, albeit in circumstances Im sure she would 
have hoped would be a few years off yet.
Overall however, the advice given to Mr E was not suitable. It was limited in its scope and 
tax-free lump sums could have been obtained by still remaining in both schemes and taking 
reduced pensions. Accordingly, Tenet should have advised Mr E to remain in his two DB 
schemes. Mr E went to Tenet looking for advice and I think if that advice had been suitable 
and hed been told to remain within those schemes, hed have followed it.
In light of the above, I think Tenet should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line with current 
guidance, or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
He has now told us he would like to wait for the outcome of the consultation before the 
complaint is settled. 
I therefore consider its fair that Tenet waits for the outcome of the consultation to settle this 
complaint. 
But to be clear, as Im upholding the complaint, a fair and reasonable outcome would be for 
Tenet to put Mr E, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for Tenets 
unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would have most likely remained in his DB schemes if 
suitable advice had been given.
For clarity, he has transferred the benefits to a personal pension but not taken any of the 
benefits and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr E.
I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance /rules to come 
into effect to determine this complaint. Tenet must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology 
as soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Tenet has 
received notification of Mr Es acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Tenet to pay Mr E.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tenet deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Tenet should give Mr E a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr E asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Tenet may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Es 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that
Tenet pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and require Tenet Connect 
Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Tenet Connect Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Tenet 
Connect Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Tenet Connect Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E eventually accepts the final decision, the money award becomes binding on Tenet 
Connect Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman