DRN-3343646
The complaint
Mrs C complains that MBNA Limited didnt promptly help her confirm details of transactions 
on an account after it was sold to a third-party debt collector.     
What happened
Mrs C had a credit card account with MBNA which defaulted in January 2016. In February 
2016, the debt of £4,486.69 was sold to a third-party debt collector (DC).
In June 2016, DC contacted Mrs C requesting repayment of the debt. Mrs C could not recall 
where the debt was from and asked DC for more information about it. Mrs C received a 
detailed breakdown of the transactions made on the account in April 2017, but says she 
didnt recognise the transactions. 
Mrs C contacted MBNA in July 2017 to try and gain access to her online banking. She was 
given incorrect information that they would need to re-set her account so she could access it. 
However, because the account had been passed to DC, her online account was no longer 
active.
So, Mrs C obtained copies of her credit report in June 2016 and August 2017. But she was 
unable to reconcile the outstanding balances on the credit report with the list of transactions 
DC sent her. This is because the first two years the account was active did not appear on 
the credit report, which meant she was unsure if the list of transactions were correct. 
Mrs C wrote to MBNA in August 2019 asking for clarification on whether the transaction list 
provided was correct, why it didnt match with her credit report and where the credits into the 
account came from. 
MBNA sent a final response to Mrs C, apologising for any upset the incorrect information 
about her online account may have caused. It explained that credit referencing agencies 
only keep hold of information for six years, which could be why information from 2012 and 
2013 is no longer visible on her credit file. But they confirmed the transaction list that Mrs C 
was sent was correct and detailed all the transactional data available for her account. 
Mrs C remained unhappy with this. She still wanted to know where credits into the account 
had come from and remained unconvinced that the list of transactions she received were 
correct. So, she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and considered some additional complaint points 
that Mrs C raised. Namely that the address on her MBNA account had been changed to one 
shed never lived at, meaning she didnt receive the default letter or account termination 
letters.  Our investigator said that based on the evidence provided, the transaction list 
provided was correct and Mrs C was the account holder. And that the address for the 
account had been updated online, meaning security would have to be passed to do so. As a 
result, she felt MBNA had acted fairly. 
Mrs C remained unhappy. She raised additional points about the card number on the 
transaction list changing, the credit limit on the account being increased despite late 
payment fees and whether all the transactions on the list were made by her. 
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the complaint Mrs C brought to us was that she was still unsure if the transaction 
list provided by DC and generated by MBNA was accurate. MBNA confirmed in its final 
response letter on 3 October 2019 that the transaction list was accurate and was the full list 
of transactions on her account. I appreciate that the credit file Mrs C has given us screen 
shots of dont have all the information about the account. For example, it doesnt start 
showing the statement balance or payments made into the account until January 2015, 
when the account was opened in October 2012. But as MBNA has explained, it doesnt have 
sight of this credit file so the missing information could be due to issues with the credit 
referencing agency itself.
Having reviewed all the information available to me, Im satisfied that the transaction list 
provided relates to the account shown on Mrs Cs credit file. It should be noted that 
businesses arent required to keep information about an account indefinitely, and as the 
transactions in question are historical, it isnt unreasonable that MBNA now holds limited 
information about them.
Looking at the payment amount on the credit file from March 2015 onwards, this represents 
the payments that were made to the account, which are always rounded up or down to the 
nearest pound. And these payments tie in with the credits to the account listed on the 
transaction list. For example, the first payment amount of £177 showing on the credit file in 
March 2014 matches up with the credit to the account on the transaction list on 7 Feb 2014 
of £177.26. The next payment amount on the credit file is £60 which ties with the next credit 
to the account on the transaction list of £60 on 31 March 2014. All of the following credits to 
the account match with the credit file. So, I have no reason to doubt the transaction list is 
correct, even accounting for the missing data on the credit file. 
Mrs C asked MBNA in August 2019 where the credits to the account were coming from. 
MBNA said that it could see they were made by online debit card payments, apart from the 
last two which were done by direct debit, but it couldnt see exactly where the payments 
came from.
Following our investigation, we were able to see that there was an account number and sort 
code showing where the payments came from on MBNAs system. And it showed they came 
from an account in Mrs Cs name, further evidencing that the transaction list was from an 
account that belonged to Mrs C. 
Mrs C is unhappy that MBNA did not give her this information when she first requested it in 
August 2019, and she feels this has therefore prolonged her complaint. I appreciate this 
must be frustrating, and I think MBNA could have provided this information a lot sooner. But I 
also have to consider that MBNA has tried to assure Mrs C in its final response letter of 2019 
and from then on, that the transaction list is correct and does represent the transactions 
made on the account. And I note that since receiving the information about where the credits came from. Mrs C has continued to question the legitimacy of all the payments listed on the 
transaction list. So, while it is unfortunate MBNA didnt provide this information sooner, I 
think its unlikely the situation would have materially changed if they had.
Mrs C has pointed out that the address was changed on the MBNA account from her correct 
address to one that shes never lived at. As a result of this, the notice of default and 
termination letters were never sent to her. MBNA has provided evidence to show that the 
address was changed in April 2015 and that this was completed online. This means that 
someone had to log into Mrs Cs online account and bypass the security in order to change 
the address. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs Cs online account was tampered with. 
Ultimately, MBNA sent correspondence to the address it held on file, so I dont think it has 
made an error in the circumstances.
Mrs C has queried why there are two card numbers mentioned on the transactions list. 
MBNA explained in its final response letter in October 2019 that this is due to the card 
number changing part way through the credit card account being active. This is not due to a 
second card being active on the account. 
Following our initial investigation, Mrs C has said that she is unsure if all the transactions 
listed on the transaction list were made by her. Shes said that in the past, she had 
fraudulent payments made on her account that MBNA refunded. So, she is unsure if that has 
happened at any other point on the account. Ive thought about this, but Mrs C has not made 
any specific arguments or given any specific reasons as to why she feels an individual 
transaction may be fraudulent. And I cant see that shes given MBNA the opportunity to 
investigate this themselves. If she would like to query a specific transaction, she will need to 
contact MBNA about this in the first instance.
Mrs C has also questioned why it appears MBNA increased the credit limit on the account 
when it also looks like she was struggling to meet repayments at the time. She has 
suggested that this therefore indicated MBNA was lending to her irresponsibly. Again, this is 
a new complaint point which MBNA has not had the opportunity to look into and investigate. 
So this isnt something that I can address in this decision. 
Overall, I think MBNA has tried to assure Mrs C from the outset that the transaction list 
provided is accurate and that the debt sold to DC is correct. I appreciate it could have 
provided Mrs C with information about where the direct debit was set up from, but overall, I 
dont think this alone has delayed the complaint. I think MBNA has acted reasonably and 
dealt with Mrs C fairly, so I dont think it needs to do anything to remedy the complaint.  
   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against MBNA Limited.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman