DRN-2860157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Accord Mortgages Limited didnt deal fairly with their porting 
application. They say this resulted in financial loss and ask for compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a mortgage with Accord. They wanted to move home and in late 2020 
applied to port the mortgage. Accord declined their application after receiving the valuation 
report which said the property wasnt suitable security. 
Mr and Mrs T say the valuer appointed by Accord made errors. They say Accord didnt 
provide clear guidance to the valuer about what property construction types were 
acceptable, and failed to challenge the valuers errors. They say they gave Accord 
information about the property before the valuation. They say if it didnt meet its lending 
criteria Accord should have told them this at the outset.
Mr and Mrs T say they were offered a mortgage on the property by another lender. They ask 
that Accord refunds the valuation fee (£500) and the ERC (about £11,000), reviews its 
lending policy on property construction types and reports the valuer to its regulatory body.
Our investigator said we cant investigate the surveyor. We can consider if Accord acted 
fairly. The investigator said, in summary, that Accord instructed a suitably qualified valuer 
and was entitled to rely on its opinion that the property wasnt suitable security. Accords 
chief valuer reviewed the matter and confirmed the property didnt meet its criteria. While Mr 
and Mrs T didnt agree, the valuation was carried out. And, as Accord hadnt made an error, 
the investigator said it wasnt fair to ask it to refund the valuation fee or ERC.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. Mr T said Accord should have explained its criteria to him at the 
outset. He would have had more time to source a mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T had a mortgage with Accord with a fixed interest rate product. An ERC was 
payable if they repaid the mortgage before October 2022. Mr and Mrs T agreed to this when 
they took out the product. Mr and Mrs T repaid the mortgage during the product term and 
Accord applied the ERC  as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions.
The product offer said the product was portable, in which case the ERC would be waived. Mr 
and Mrs T say that Accord was unfair when it declined their porting application. And so it 
should refund the ERC and the valuation fee. 
Is it fair to require Accord to refund the ERC?
Accord declined Mr and Mrs Ts porting application after the property was valued. The 
valuers report said the construction type is not considered to be acceptable for mortgage 
lending purposes. 
Accord had appointed a suitably qualified valuer  a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. While lenders are generally entitled to rely on the valuers opinion, 
Mr T says it wasnt fair for Accord to do so here. He says the valuer made errors which he 
informed Accord about. 
The vendor had said the property was built in the 1960s, and some of the correspondence 
refers to this. However, the valuer stated the correct year (in the 1980s) in their report. 
The problem with the property identified in the valuation report was the construction type. 
The valuer said the construction was timber frame with rendered and plastered foam 
panels and commented that the walls were too thin. Mr T provided planning documents for 
the house saying it was of cavity walls construction. However, this didnt meet Accords 
lending policy either, as the walls didnt have an acceptable skin and were too thin. 
And Accord had other concerns with the property, such as the outbuildings, planned 
development and existing planning consents for other development. Its land policy meant 
only the house and immediate garden would be included in the valuation, significantly 
reducing the amount it would have lent even if it hadnt been concerned about the property 
construction and outbuildings. 
Mr T offered to pay for another valuation and a structural survey. Accord declined as it didnt 
expect this to change its decision not to lend. Accord reviewed its decision whether to lend, 
and whether it would be fair to make an exception or to instruct another valuer. I think it 
responded reasonably to Mr and Mrs Ts concerns. 
Mr and Mrs T were offered a mortgage by another lender, and the valuation instructed by 
that lender was satisfactory for it to lend. Lenders have different criteria, so this doesnt 
mean Accord made an error when it didnt accept the property as suitable security. 
Overall, I dont think Accord made an error that would make it fair and reasonable to require 
it to refund the ERC.
Is it fair to require Accord to refund the valuation fee?
Mr T says Accord should have told them at the outset that it wouldnt lend. Theyd have had 
more time to look elsewhere and saved the valuation fee. 
Mr T sent information about the property they wanted to buy to Accord before making the 
porting application. He asked a number of times whether Accord would lend. Accord didnt 
give any assurances about this. It said it would depend on the valuers comments. Following 
a discussion about the outbuildings it said based on recent experience [the property] may 
not be acceptable but we dont know for sureSorry that we cant give more assurances as 
it would be down to the valuation. 
Accord said it would rely on the valuers comments. It was clear about this throughout, and 
that it had concerns about the property. So I think Mr and Mrs T were aware when they 
agreed to pay for a valuation there was a risk that Accord would decline the application on 
the basis the property didnt meet its criteria. 
The property Mr and Mrs T wanted to buy was unusual in terms of what it offered and how it 
fitted into their plans. I can understand they didnt want to lose the property. And, having agreed to sell their property, they had limited time to find another property  even if theyd 
wanted to do so. I appreciate their frustration that they werent able to port their mortgage 
product to this property. But Accord was entitled to apply its own lending criteria, and rely on 
the opinion of its valuer as to whether the property was suitable security. I dont think it acted 
unfairly. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to refund any 
fees to Mr and Mrs T or take any further steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman