DRN-2787942
The complaint
Ms J has complained about her broker One Call Insurance Services Limited as she feels it 
let her down in 2019 when the terms of her property insurance policy were changed by the 
underwriting insurer.
What happened
Ms J arranged cover in 2018. She was asked if her house had ever been flooded. She said it 
hadnt. She later became aware it had flooded previously, but more than twenty years ago. 
When her insurer was advised of this in late 2019 it said it would have to remove the cover 
for flood from the policy. One Call rang Ms J to advise her of the change to her policy, but it 
also offered to change her arrangement to an insurer offering a policy that did include flood 
cover. Ms J declined the offer.
Ms Js policy documents were updated the same day with an endorsement which removed 
the cover for flood. These were available to her via an on-line portal. 
Ms J checked the portal ten days later. She downloaded policy wording and this did not 
include the endorsement, or any reference to the policy not offering cover for flood.
  
In February 2020 Ms Js home was flooded. She made a claim but the insurer declined it 
due to there being no cover for flood. Ms J complained to her insurer and One Call. In 
respect of One Call she felt it hadnt advised her about this crucial change. 
One Call said it had asked her a question about previous flooding as it was bound to when 
the policy was arranged. Shed had a chance to check her answers since and when she 
advised it that the details regarding flooding were wrong, it updated her insurer. One Call 
noted that after the insurer had made its decision it had called Ms J, given her options and 
updated her paperwork. One Call also noted that Ms J had accessed the paperwork after it 
had been updated. In short it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Ms J complained to us.
Our investigator didnt think One Call had done anything wrong. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. Ms J said surely One Call should have completed some due diligence checks 
when it accepted her application for cover in 2018. She also felt that, as this was a really 
important change to her cover, One Call should have written to her. Her complaint was 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it must be difficult for Ms J to face an incident of flooding without being covered 
by her insurance. However, Im not persuaded One Call did anything wrong.
One Call acts as a broker to arrange policies provided by underwriting insurers. When a 
policy is arranged it is for the prospective policyholder to ensure they give correct answers to 
the questions posed. Im not assessing the correctness of Ms Js answer here, or the 
reasonableness of her actions when providing that answer, but its fair to say there was no 
obligation on One Call to check that the answers she provided to it were correct or that shed 
taken reasonable care in presenting them. Im satisfied that One Call didnt fail Ms J in this 
respect when she applied for the policy via it in 2018.
When the insurer decided to remove the cover for flood, One Call spoke to Ms J. Its advisor 
clearly explained that the current policy could only continue without the benefit of flood 
cover. The advisor also explained that One Call had acted already to find an alternate policy 
that Ms J might be interested in that did include cover against damage caused by flood. Ms J 
said to the advisor though that she had only been wondering about flood cover given recent 
flooding occurring in areas that hadnt flooded before. From the way the call ended I think 
the advisor reasonably understood that Ms J understood her current policy did not include 
cover for flood and she was happy to continue with that policy on that basis. 
One Call updates policy documents in its portal. Its shown us that Ms Js policy schedule 
was updated on 5 December 2019  the same day they spoke, and that Ms J accessed the 
portal on 14 December 2019. It isnt clear what Ms J looked at during that access session 
but I note the documents she downloaded, and shared with us, were the generic policy 
booklets that set out the overall policy terms which may apply to all customers. It is the policy 
schedule which holds details of cover specific to the individual. And Im satisfied the policy 
schedule, with the endorsement removing cover for flood, was available to Ms J on the portal 
at that time. I cant be certain if Ms J looked at that, but I think that if shed had any doubts or 
concerns about the conversation shed had with One Call on 5 December 2019, she could 
have taken that opportunity to consider the extent of her current cover, and call One Call if 
she had further concerns. 
Im satisfied that Ms J didnt give any indication to One Call that might have reasonably 
caused it to think she was unclear about the situation or unhappy with the decision that she 
made during the call on the 5 December 2019. And I also think its relevant that, from the 
communication history One Call had with Ms J, it was apparent she was both able to use the 
communication portal and actively did so. So whilst this was a big change to Ms Js cover, 
I dont think there was any need for One call to write a letter to Ms J setting out the change.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against One Call Insurance Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman