DRN-2507760
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a packaged bank account called an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) trading as Halifax. And 
he says Bank of Scotland didnt close his URCA when he asked it to.
 
What happened
Mr T took out a fee free Easycash account with Bank of Scotland in June 2007.
Mr T then changed his account to a fee free Reward Account in July 2012.
In January 2016, he upgraded his Reward Account to an URCA for which he paid a monthly 
fee.
Mr T says he wanted an overdraft facility and hes not sure how he came to have an URCA. 
He says he doesnt use the benefits. 
Mr T also says that he tried to close his URCA several times, but Bank of Scotland failed to 
act on his instructions. 
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ts complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland didnt mis-
sell the URCA, but that it did fail to close his URCA account when he asked it to, and 
awarded Mr T redress. Both parties disagreed so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint.
The URCA sale
Ill first consider whether Mr T knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA and 
whether he chose to do so.
Prior to this sale Mr T had had a fee free account for several years. So, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr T was aware that fee free accounts were widely available with Bank of 
Scotland and other banks and financial institutions. 
Mr T says hes not sure how he came to have an URCA, but he recalls being interested in an 
overdraft at the time.
Bank of Scotland has provided evidence that Mr T took the URCA out on line. In doing so he 
would have been taken through information screens including about overdraft facilities and 
asked to make and confirm his choice. There was no interaction with Bank of Scotland staff.
Although I dont doubt Mr Ts honest recollections, I think its more likely than not the 
overdraft facility was not a major driver of his decision to buy the URCA because he had a 
very high balance on the account both before and for many months after he took it out. So, I 
think its unlikely he took out the URCA because he thought he had to in order to get an 
overdraft.
So, I think its more likely than not Mr T knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA 
and he chose to do so for other reasons as below.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt recommend the URCA to Mr T or advise him to take out the 
URCA. Mr T says it did.
As Mr T took out the URCA online with no interaction with Bank of Scotland staff, I would 
usually consider this a non-advised sale and I see no reason or evidence to consider this 
differently. So, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr T 
on an information only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed to provide Mr T with enough information about the URCA 
to make an informed choice.
The URCA contained a range of benefits including worldwide travel insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone insurance. And it offered better 
overdraft facilities including a fee free overdraft of up to £300. The URCA cost £15 per 
month.
As Ive said above, Bank of Scotland provided information about the URCA on a series of 
screens Mr T had to go through before being able to take it out. So, I think its more likely 
than not he gained an understanding of the URCA in doing so. And I think the URCA would 
have been of interest to Mr T. 
I say this because Mr T says he travelled up to three times a year at the time and so in my 
view he could have used the travel insurance. The car breakdown service provided cover for 
him in any car he travelled in whether he was owner or driver or not; and Mr T thinks he may 
have had a mobile phone. 
So, in my view Mr T knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA or not and he 
chose to do so. I think the URCA was of interest to him and there was no information that Mr 
T didnt receive from Bank of Scotland that would likely have put him off taking it out.
So, I dont think Bank of Scotland did anything wrong in the sale of the URCA to Mr T.
Request to close the URCA.
Mr T says he has requested that Bank of Scotland close his account on three occasions 
since August 2019, but it hasnt done so. Mr T has provided evidence of when and how 
those requests were made. Bank of Scotland says that it has no record of those requests 
being received.
Ive looked at Mr Ts evidence which includes recorded delivery and records of faxes having 
been sent and I think they are detailed and credible. So, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland received those communications and failed to act on them, continuing to 
charge Mr T for 9 months despite his repeated efforts, causing him trouble and upset.
So, I think Bank of Scotland should refund Mr Ts monthly fees from August 2109 as below; 
and make a compensation payment to him as below. 
Putting things right
I require Bank of Scotland to:
 
Pay Mr T the amount he paid each month for the URCA from August 2019 until it was 
closed.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr T has saved money because of a better rate on any lending or credit by having the 
packaged account and Bank of Scotland can show exactly how much Mr T saved, it may 
deduct these savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated the 
two points above. Bank of Scotland must explain clearly and simply to Mr T how it has 
worked out any deductions.
Pay £150 compensation to Mr T.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest. Bank of 
Scotland must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require Bank of Scotland Plc to 
put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman