DRN-3709452
The complaint
Mr R complains that London Mutual Credit Union Limited (London Mutual) irresponsibly 
gave him a loan that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In March 2015, Mr R applied for a credit account with London Mutual. Mr R applied for a 
loan of £5,000. London Mutual offered him a loan of £1,500, which Mr R accepted. The 
loan was to be repaid over 36 months and the monthly repayment amount was £51.
In 2021, Mr R complained to London Mutual to say that the loan shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that London Mutual ought to have made 
a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before giving him the loan. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. London Mutual didnt agree. So, 
the complaint was been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 5 September 2022, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not 
to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
London Mutual will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Rs complaint is that London Mutual made credit available that was unaffordable. London 
Mutual has explained that it required of Mr R payslips and bank statements along with the 
application, and they carried out a credit check to determine the amount of credit it was able 
to offer. Having conducted the above checks, it is worth noting that London Mutual declined 
to provide the full amount of money that Mr R had requested. The above information lead 
London Mutual to offer Mr R less than a third of what he had asked for. 
Its possible that London Mutual failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr R with 
credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused London 
Mutual to think the credit it provided Mr R was unaffordable. I explain why I say that below.
I have considered that Mr Rs income was not modest. And that the loan was for a modest 
amount and the monthly repayment on it was also modest. In saying that I have had regard 
for the information that Mr R provided to London Mutual at the time the lending decision was 
made. Mr R completed an income and expenditure check. In doing so, Mr declared that he 
had a disposable income of £196 per month.  
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability even when Mr R has been able to 
provide copies of his bank statements from the time in question. I say that because the 
current account that Mr R has provided statements for is a busy account with more activity 
than a straightforward income and expenditure. In any event, I have considered the bank 
statement for the month before the loan. I have noted that at 31 January 2015 the balance 
was £1,476.11 in debit. And the balance on 28 February 2015 was £578.98 in debit. I 
mention this because despite the busy activity on the account, In the month before applying 
for the loan, Mr R was applying some order to his account which was not becoming more in 
debit. 
Ive noted there are no indications from the bank statements of the issues Mr R has told us 
he was facing with gambling. And it appears that Mr R had not made London Mutual aware 
of this habit at the time of the lending decision. Id only expect London Mutual to act on 
information available to them and I dont believe London Mutual would have known about Mr 
Rs habit. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to lend on this basis. 
I have noted Mr Rs other borrowings at the time, but they do not strike me as so onerous 
that the lending of such a modest amount becomes automatically unaffordable. And Mr Rs 
credit file shows that up to the point of this lending decision, Mr Rs credit file is clear of 
adverse markings  no missed payments or defaults. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr R to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led London Mutual to think that the credit it 
provided Mr R was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr R was 
managing his account or what London Mutual could see of his management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr R to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 19 September 2022. London Mutual has acknowledged receipt of 
the provisional decision and has said they have no further submission they wish to make. Mr 
R has not acknowledged receiving the decision, or made any further submission, or asked 
for an extension to do so. I think that Mr R has had sufficient time to make substantive 
further submissions if he had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Mr Rs complaint, I have nothing further to add. My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman