DRN-3604452
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society will not refund the money she lost 
because of a scam. 
What happened
Miss Rs sister was contacted about a potential loan. She was told that she needed to pay 
money up front to secure it, so asked Miss R for help. Miss R explains that she agreed to 
lend her sister £400, but the fraudsters were urging price up for more money [sic].
Miss R ultimately tried to send five payments on her sisters behalf. One of the payments 
was returned to Miss Rs bank account and the last payment was blocked. In total, Miss R 
sent £1,525 to accounts controlled by fraudsters. 
It was Nationwide that uncovered the scam. It blocked the last payment Miss R tried to make 
and the situation came to light when Miss R and Nationwide spoke on the phone. Nationwide 
declined Miss Rs claim for a refund of the money she lost. It said it was confident it had 
sufficient fraud protection measures in place and suggested that Miss R had not done 
enough checks to ensure she was happy the recipients were genuine. 
Miss R made a complaint. She explained that her sisters bank refunded her loss. In its final 
response letter, Nationwide said it should not be held liable because Miss R authorised the 
payments and gave her permission for the money to be transferred. It said that it had 
provided fraud warning messages at the time that Miss R set up the payments and she 
continued with the transactions, approving them to go through. 
  
Miss R referred the complaint to our service as she was unhappy with Nationwides position. 
She explained that losing the money so close to Christmas had been very hard and she was 
struggling to catch up on bills.  
Our Investigator looked into the matter but did not recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think Nationwide needed to refund Miss R because of any obligation under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). He considered Miss R should 
have been concerned and taken a more cautious approach. He pointed out that Miss Rs 
sister had been approached with an offer for a loan out of the blue and that Miss R didnt 
know who the lender was, nor had she seen any paperwork. He thought that Miss R should 
have questioned in her own mind why her sister needed to pay around £3,000 upfront to the 
loan company in order to borrow £8,000. He thought Nationwide had done what it could to 
try and recover the money but sadly no funds remained with the receiving banks. He also 
didnt think the payments Miss R was making were large enough for the building society to 
be concerned that Miss R could have been at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Miss R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision, so the complaint 
has been referred to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Miss R has been the victim of a scam. She thought she was 
helping her sister, but she was tricked into sending the money to fraudsters. But this alone 
doesnt mean that Miss R must be reimbursed by the building society. I can only compel 
Nationwide to refund the money if it is responsible for the loss incurred. Having carefully 
considered the circumstances of this complaint, I can see no basis on which I can fairly say 
that Nationwide should be held liable for some or all of Miss Rs loss. I will explain why. 
The starting position at law is that banks and building societies are expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that their customers authorise them to make. I have listened to a 
recording of Miss Rs conversation with Nationwide when it blocked the fifth payment she 
was trying to make. In the call, Miss R explains that she has been making payments through 
her mobile banking app. I understand that when Miss R made the payments, she thought 
she was helping her sister with a loan and didnt know that it was part of a scam. It is 
Nationwides staff member that first expresses concern about the situation. But from what 
I have heard, its clear that Miss R made the disputed payments herself using her payment 
tools. This means they were authorised payments, even though Miss R did not intend for the 
money to go to fraudsters. 
But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Nationwide 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that Nationwide should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
situations, such as a customer making larger payments then they would typically make, 
which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Our Investigator said the payments Miss R was making were unremarkable and wouldnt 
have stood out. But in this case, Nationwide did begin to have concerns about the payments 
Miss R was making. Nationwide blocked the fifth payment Miss R attempted. It was this 
intervention from Nationwide that uncovered the scam and prevented Miss R from sending 
any more money. 
Ive thought about whether Nationwide ought to have intervened sooner than it did. But from 
what I have seen, Im not persuaded that Nationwide ought reasonably to have recognised 
that Miss R was at the risk of financial harm from fraud when she was making the earlier 
payments. This means Nationwide did not miss an opportunity to intervene. 
With the benefit of hindsight, we now know that all the payments Miss R was making at that 
time were going to a fraudster. But when Miss R started sending the money, this wouldnt have been obvious to Nationwide. There is a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments. Initially, it wouldnt have been considered unusual that Miss R was making a 
payment to a new payee. This is a very common activity for account holders to do. 
But I think the situation quickly evolved and there was a developing pattern of spending that 
had the hallmarks of potentially fraudulent activity. Over the course of an hour, Miss R tried 
to make five payments. Nationwide blocked the fifth payment to a third new payee. The fifth 
payment was for £999, which was almost double the amounts of the earlier payments. It was 
right for Nationwide to identify and challenge the situation when things began to stand out 
and I agree with the building society that a pattern of spending that was indicative of financial 
harm was clearly evident when Miss R tried to make the fifth payment. But I am not 
persuaded that Nationwide should have picked up on any risk factors earlier than that. 
As I dont consider that Nationwide missed any earlier opportunity to intervene, Ive thought 
about whether there is any other reason that I can fairly say Nationwide is responsible for 
refunding some or all of the loss. 
Ive thought about whether Miss R should have received a refund of the money that she lost 
under the CRM Code. The CRM Code is designed to reimburse victims of authorised push 
payment scams. Nationwide has signed up to the CRM Code and it was in force when 
Miss R made the payments. This means Nationwide has made a commitment to reimburse 
customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited 
circumstances.
Nationwide says it can choose not to reimburse Miss R because she didnt take enough 
steps to check who she was paying and what for. By making this finding, Nationwide was 
saying that Miss R failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payments she made. Nationwide did not think she had a reasonable basis for believing the 
transactions she was making were legitimate. 
From what Miss R has told us, she made these payments because she thought that she was 
helping her sister take out a loan. I can understand why Miss R would want to help out a 
member of her immediate family, but I dont think Miss R did enough to question and really 
understand what was going on. 
Miss R has told us that her sister was not looking to take out a loan until she was 
approached by the fraudsters. Miss R has explained that this money was from her savings 
and that it was money she could not afford to lose. Initially Miss R was only going to make a 
payment of £400, but this quickly jumped up. Miss R didnt stop to question why she was 
being asked to make multiple payments to a number of different people and she didnt 
question in her own mind why her sister would need to pay £3,000 upfront to be able to 
borrow £8,000. 
From what I have seen, I am not persuaded that Miss R made sufficient checks to ensure 
the situation was legitimate. She took things at face value and missed clear red flags that the 
situation was not right. Overall, I think Miss R should have had significant concerns about 
the payments she was making and that she should have taken a more cautious approach 
before agreeing to send more money. Ive not seen anything that makes me think Miss R 
was vulnerable to this type of scam, or that she would not have been able to take steps to 
protect herself and think critically about what was being said by the fraudster. 
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide met its standards under the CRM Code. Whilst 
Miss R has lost a lot to the scam overall, I dont consider that any of the individual payments 
she made required Nationwide to provide an effective warning. This means I dont need to consider whether the information Nationwide showed Miss R at the time the payments were 
made meets the standards required by the CRM Code.
Having looked at everything, I dont think Nationwide treated Miss R unfairly when it 
concluded it was not responsible for refunding the money shes lost. It did all it could to try 
and recover the funds she had sent, and it did appropriately intervene to prevent Miss R 
from sending more money. 
I am sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss R and I can understand why she wants to 
recover the money shes lost. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied Miss R isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there 
are any other grounds on which I could say that Nationwide should, fairly and reasonably, 
bear the responsibility for Miss Rs losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman