DRN-4074696
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc (trading as Whistletree) provided incorrect information 
about removing a charge on his property. Mr H is represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill 
refer to as M. 
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Whistletree. In early 2022 M asked Whistletree for a redemption 
statement. Whistletree sent the redemption statement with a cover letter saying it would 
remove the three charges on the property title on receipt of the redemption monies.
The sale of the property completed in May 2022. Whistletree removed two of the charges. It 
said it couldnt remove the third charge as it related to a debt with a third party. It accepts the 
letter it sent in February 2022 was incorrect.
M said Whistletree hasnt acknowledged the difficulties the incorrect information and failing 
to remove the third charge has caused for M, the property purchaser and the new mortgage 
lender. 
Our investigator said the eligible complainant here is Mr H. He said Mr H hasnt suffered any 
financial loss due to Whistletrees error. Mr H asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H had a mortgage with Whistletree. Mr H also had two loans secured on his property with 
equitable charges. The loans and charges were originally held by another lender. One of 
these loans was transferred to Whistletree and the other loan was transferred to a third 
party. The Land Registrys records werent updated and the charges remained in the name 
of the original lender.
Whistletree made an error in the letter it sent in February 2022. It shouldnt have said it 
would remove the third charge because its not entitled to do so. The charge relates to a 
debt owed to a third party, and its for the third party to decide whether to remove it.
M says it relied on the information provided by Whistletree in relation to the sale of Mr Hs 
property, and gave undertakings to the purchasers solicitor that the charges would be 
removed. M says conveyancers are legally entitled to rely on information provided by 
lenders, and the third charge remaining on the property title created significant problems. 
M says Whistletree caused significant delays in removing the first two charges and 
explaining what happened with the third charge.
I appreciate the difficult position M is in. However, M wasnt Whistletrees customer in 
relation to the mortgage or loans. This means, under our rules, M isnt an eligible 
complainant. I cant consider the effect of Whistletrees error on M, or require it to pay 
compensation to M or for Ms losses, time or inconvenience. For the same reason, I cant 
look into the effect of the error on the property purchaser or the new mortgage lender.
What I can do is consider the effect of Whistletrees error on Mr H.
Mr H hasnt suffered any financial loss due to Whistletrees error. When his property was 
sold the money he owed to Whistletree was repaid and it removed the related charges. Mr H 
received the net proceeds from the sale of the property. The third charge wasnt removed 
from the property title because Mr H didnt repay the debt owed to the relevant lender. 
Mr H says hes concerned theres a loan account in his name which he didnt know about. 
Whistletree gave Mr H details of the current owner of the debt and Mr H has been in contact. 
Mr H will need to discuss the debt and how it will be repaid with the current owner of the 
debt. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Whistletree to do 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman