DRN-1888529
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to send him his bank 
statements as requested.
In addition Mr O found that the bank had an incorrect date of birth recorded on their system 
which Mr O feels is a breach of data protection rules. 
What happened
Mr O was intending to take his family on holiday and booked flights for the end of November. 
In order for the family to take the holiday Mr Os wife required a visa for travel. Mr O booked 
an Embassy appointment for 1 November in order to obtain the relevant visa. As part of the 
visa application Mr O was required to provided three months of bank statements; to show 
that he had enough money to cover the cost of the stay. 
On 24 October Mr O contacted NatWest to request copies of his bank statements. During 
the call he advised that he needed the statements by the end of the month and was told that 
he would receive them by 31 October at the latest. 
The statements had not arrived by 31 October. Since the visa application process takes 15 
working days and Mr O was not able to arrange a further suitable appointment he cancelled 
the flights in the hope that he would obtain a full refund from the airline. Mr O was only able 
to obtain a partial refund on his flights from the airline. 
Mr O attempted to contact NatWest on the evening of 31 October but was unable to get 
through. When Mr O contacted NatWest again on 6 November they arranged for the 
statements to be sent out to Mr O. And it appears that further copy statements were sent out 
on 8 November when Mr O contacted the bank once more. 
On 19 November Mr O confirmed that the statements had been received but that it was too 
late for the family to go on holiday. NatWest asked that Mr O send them the flight details and 
they would look into the complaint. 
When Mr O contacted the bank to complain about the missing statements he found that the 
bank had his date of birth recorded incorrectly. Mr O felt that this was a breach of data 
protection rules and could have serious consequences. 
NatWest looked into the complaint for Mr O. NatWest found that when Mr Os request for 
copy statements was made, its representative put the request through on the wrong system 
which meant that they were never sent to Mr O. 
NatWest found that on account opening Mr Os date of birth was correct and that due to an 
internal error the date had been changed. NatWest rectified this mistake immediately. 
NatWest apologised to Mr O for not sending the statements as requested and for having his 
date of birth recorded incorrectly. They sent copy statements as soon as they were made 
aware of the missing ones. By way of an apology Mr O was credited with £50 to his account 
and the family were sent some flowers. NatWest felt that they were not responsible for the 
flight cancellation and were unable to make a payment for this. 
Mr O was not happy with the response and referred his complaint to us. The investigator 
reviewed Mr Os complaint and felt that although the level of service received from NatWest 
had not been as he would have expected he could not solely link the delay in Mr O receiving 
his statements with the cancellation of the flights. The investigator felt that Mr O could have 
taken steps to try and mitigate his losses. The investigators view was that the resolution put 
forward by NatWest was reasonable. Mr O did not agree with the investigator. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that this situation was upsetting for Mr O and his family. They had planned a 
holiday and ended up cancelling it. I do not underestimate how disappointing that this would 
have been. 
Mr O was expecting that his statements would be received in time for his appointment at the 
Embassy. Mr O had already made the Embassy appointment, booked the flights and 
accepted the cancellation terms before he contacted NatWest for the statements, or been 
given a timescale for receiving them. Mr O says he waited until 24 October before requesting 
copies of his statements since he needed to ensure that the account showed sufficient 
funds. Mr O has stressed the importance of those statements for his wifes visa application. 
It is unfortunate that the statements were not sent to Mr O when he requested them. The 
evidence I have seen shows that the reason the statements were not sent was due to an 
admin error. I appreciate that this does not take away from the consequences of that error 
however I cannot reasonably hold NatWest liable for the cost of the flights. Mr O cancelled 
the flights knowing that there would be a cost to him in doing so. I do however agree that the 
service received from NatWest has fallen short of what I would have expected. 
At the point when NatWest were made aware that the statements had not been received 
they immediately sent out further copies. Had Mr O notified NatWest sooner that the 
statements had not been received its likely that they would have taken immediate steps to 
try to solve the issue because when Mr O did notify NatWest that the statements had not 
arrived it responded straight away. NatWest have advised that statements can also be 
printed in branch if customers do not have access to a printer. Whilst I can see that Mr O 
says that he was busy at the time it was an option available to him given the importance of 
the statements. 
In respect of the date of birth being incorrect I can see that this was an inconvenience to 
Mr O given that he was unable to access his account details over the telephone. NatWest 
apologised for the error in date of birth and corrected the inaccuracy immediately. I cannot 
see that the incorrect date of birth has had any adverse consequences for Mr O since up 
until that point he had been able to access his account details with no issue and has been 
able to since the matter was resolved. 
Given my comments above I am upholding this complaint, though I believe that the £50 paid 
to Mr O is fair in the circumstances. Whilst I can see the matter has been difficult for Mr O I 
cannot reasonably ask NatWest to reimburse Mr O for the cost of the flights. My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid Mr O £50 to settle the complaint. I think this 
amount is fair in all the circumstances. I do not require the bank to take any further steps to 
resolve matters.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman