DRN-2653839
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains through a professional representative that Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) mis-sold a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan.
What happened
In 1993, the late Mr W was aged 52 and working as a bricklayer earning approximately 
£19,000. He met with an adviser from Confederation Life (now Sun Life) and was 
advised to take out an FSAVC. At the time he was a member of his Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS).
Mr W took his benefits from the plan in 2006. Sadly, in 2017 Mr W passed away. 
More recently through a professional representative Mrs W, representing Mr Ws estate, 
complained about the advice given in 1993. In short, the complaint was that the 
opportunity of an in-house AVC scheme wasnt discussed with Mr W.
Initially Sun Life told Mrs W that she wasnt an eligible complainant. However, sometime 
later Sun Life then admitted it had made an error and re-opened the complaint. It then 
upheld the complaint and made an offer on a charges only basis. It said the loss had 
been calculated at £5,221.83.
The representative didnt agree, he said Mr W wouldve more than likely bought added 
years, the reasoning given, that it wouldve been in his best interests.
The investigator explained he didnt agree because at the time of advice the in-house 
scheme didnt offer added years. It was only after a change of employment years later 
that Mr W wouldve had the opportunity to purchase added years. And so had the adviser 
made Mr W aware of the in-house scheme, he wouldnt have purchased added years in 
any event.
The representative didnt accept this and said but for the advice given by the adviser, Mr 
W wouldve taken added years in his later employment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sun Life has provided evidence to show it has looked into Mr Ws employment situation 
throughout the years in question. And at the time of advice to take out the FSAVC, the in-
house scheme Mr W couldve joined didnt offer added years. It was only later when Mr W 
moved to a new employer that added years might have been an option. The representative 
says that Mr W wouldve taken out added years as it was the beneficial option. But has 
provided no further reasoning or supporting evidence. 
At the time of advice in 1993, the adviser was tied to Sun Life products, and so could only 
give advice about them. However, the LAUTRO code of conduct required a company 
representative to exercise due skill, care and diligence and to deal fairly with investors.
So, this means wed expect tied advisers should have known in-house AVC options would 
be available to the consumer. And in addition to highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC, they 
should mention the generic benefits available with in-house options.
Even if a tied adviser only knew the consumers occupation these generic benefits would 
include:
In-house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC
Added years might have been available under a defined benefit occupational 
scheme, particularly in the public sector - these provided a guaranteed benefit linked 
to salary and an additional component of tax-free cash, neither of which were 
available under an FSAVC
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option
So had the adviser acted correctly and advised Mr W to look into his in-house options, he 
wouldnt have been able to take out added years in any event  and wouldnt have been 
provided with any information about them.
The representative says that Mr W wouldve taken out added years when he joined his new 
employer three years later, as it was the beneficial option. He hasnt explained given the 
above, how this is linked to the advice given in 1993. But in any event, I see this as an 
argument constructed with hindsight and theres been no supporting evidence specific to Mr 
W provided. At the time of the advice added years would have likely looked expensive when 
compared to an AVC and projections likely would have shown that similar benefits could be 
achieved through investment returns. And I note the representatives initial complaint 
focused on the advice to Mr W not giving due consideration to low cost options and 
investments. Added years likely wouldnt have been a low-cost investment compared to the 
alternatives. Its a stretch to link the advice given in 1993 (when added years wasnt an 
option for Mr W) to him not taking added years in 1996 with a later employer. But even in the 
event I accepted this link, Im not persuaded Mr W wouldve taken added years in 1996 had 
the adviser told Mr W about the in-house option.
So, Im satisfied Sun Lifes offer on a charges only comparison in line with the regulators 
guidance is fair and reasonable. 
The complaint from the representative since the offer was made has focused solely on 
whether Mr W wouldve taken out added years but for the advice given in 1993. And so, this 
is what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
However, following our investigators recommendation, Sun Life offered to pay £150 due to 
errors and delays its accepted. And it offered to pay 8% interest from the date of its initial 
offer to the date of the investigators view  this was just over £100. The investigator 
accepted this and put the offer to the representative but there was no comment on this offer. 
The representative instead re-iterated his belief that the comparison should be done on an 
added years basis.
The interest was offered to bring the award made in the initial offer up to date of the 
investigators view. It wasnt an offer of 8% on the whole award (this would be much more than £100). This isnt something the regulator requires a business to do in its review 
guidance. And for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think an award of 8% interest on top of the 
loss established is required here  I think the regulators review guidance is the appropriate 
way to redress this complaint. 
Sun Life made this offer and the representative has had the opportunity to comment on it but 
no further points have been raised regarding this. As I can see no grounds to make any 
additional award  I will simply include this offer (as Sun Life was prepared to offer it) as a 
settlement in my decision. 
conclusions
In conclusion, I am satisfied that a review in line with the regulators guidance and on the 
basis of a charges only comparison is a fair way to redress this situation.
My final decision
Im satisfied a charges only comparison is a fair and reasonable method to redress this 
complaint. On notification of the acceptance of this decision, Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay the settlement it has offered to the estate of Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman