DRN-2014093
The complaint
Ms S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has not fairly compensated 
her for the mis-sale of four payment protection insurance (PPI) policies sold between 1999 
and 2007.
What happened
In December 1999 Ms S took out a loan with NatWest (loan 1). She borrowed £5,000 and 
was sold a PPI policy. The premium for the PPI policy was paid for with a single premium of 
£805 which was added to the loan and would attract interest. So in total Ms S borrowed 
£5,805. The loan was to be repaid over 42 months. The monthly repayment for the main 
loan was £143.60. The monthly repayment for that part of the loan which financed the PPI 
policy was £23.12. So Ms Ss total monthly repayment was £166.72. The loan ran its full 
term and was repaid in July 2003.
In March 2005 Ms S took out another loan with NatWest (loan 2). She borrowed £4,000 and 
was sold a PPI policy. The premium for the PPI policy was paid for with a single premium of 
£683 which was added to the loan and would attract interest. So in total Ms S borrowed 
£4,683. The loan was to be repaid over 36 months. The monthly repayment for the main 
loan was £136.60. The monthly repayment for that part of the loan which financed the PPI 
policy was £23.33. So Ms Ss total monthly repayment was £159.93. 
Two months later, in May 2005 Ms S took out a third loan (loan 3). Ms S borrowed £6,550, 
part of which was used to clear loan 2. Again Ms S was sold a PPI policy. The premium for 
the policy was paid for with a single premium of £1,654 which was added to the loan and 
would attract interest. So in total Ms S borrowed £8,204. The loan was to be repaid over 60 
months. The monthly repayment for the main loan was £134.54. The monthly repayment for 
that part of the loan which financed the PPI policy was £33.98. So Ms Ss total monthly 
repayment was £168.52.
Finally in May 2007 Ms S took out a fourth loan (loan 4). Ms S borrowed £25,000, part of 
which was used to clear loan 3. Again Ms S was sold a PPI policy. The premium for the 
policy was paid for with a single premium of £7,147 which was added to the loan and would 
attract interest. So in total Ms S borrowed £32,147. The loan was to be repaid over 84 
months. The monthly repayment for the main loan was £399.07. The monthly repayment for 
that part of the loan which financed the PPI policy was £114.09. So Ms Ss total monthly 
repayment was £513.16.
Ms S later complained to NatWest about the sale of the PPI policies. NatWest agreed to 
uphold Ms Ss complaints and pay compensation. It agreed to refund Ms S everything the 
PPI policies had cost her and pay compensatory interest. 
My understanding is Ms S accepted the offers made by NatWest and the compensation was 
paid in around 2013.
However Ms S believes NatWest didnt fully compensate her and in 2019 she asked this 
service to step in. Ms S says NatWest has paid compensation calculated at 8% simple 
interest. Ms S doesnt think this is fair and NatWest should instead pay her compound 
interest which she says it charged her.
An adjudicator from this service thought NatWest had fairly compensated Ms S.
Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case. 
NatWest has agreed that it mis-sold the policies to Ms S, so I wont look into how they were 
sold to her.
Ive instead thought about whether NatWest has fairly compensated Ms S for the sale of the 
policies, or whether it needs to do more. In particular Ive looked at whether it was fair for 
NatWest to pay Ms S 8% simple interest per year as compensation for the time she was out 
of pocket because of the sale of the PPI. 
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id expect the business to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in if the PPI hadnt been sold. In this case I think NatWest has done this. 
Ill explain why.
Each time Ms S took out a loan she borrowed extra to pay for the PPI policy. So her loans 
were bigger than they shouldve been. She paid more than she shouldve each month and it 
cost her more to repay the loans than it would have without PPI.
Loan 1
Looking at loan 1, I can see Ms S paid £23.12 extra each month because of the PPI. So over 
the 42-month term of the loan she paid £971.04 extra because of the PPI. And this included 
any interest added because of the premium. I can see NatWest refunded this amount to     
Ms S. So I am satisfied NatWest refunded everything extra Ms S paid because of the sale of 
the PPI including any interest added because of the PPI.
Id also expect NatWest to compensate Ms S for the time shed been out of pocket. And I 
can see NatWest calculated and paid Ms S compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple, 
this totalled £722.82 net of tax.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out rules and guidance around how businesses 
should compensate consumers who have been mis-sold PPI, and I have to take these rules into 
account when deciding if a businesss offer is fair. The FCA has set out that compensatory 
interest should be paid at the rate of 8% simple per annum which is the rate used by NatWest. 
I could award a different rate. But in order to do so Id have to be persuaded that it is most 
likely Ms S would have used the extra £23.12 she paid each month because of the PPI to 
invest or reduce other borrowing. But I havent seen anything to make me think that is most 
likely to have been the case. So I think 8% simple interest is a fair amount to compensate 
Ms S for not having the use of the extra she paid for the PPI.
Loans 2,3 and 4Whereas loan 1 was repaid over the full 42-month term, the following three loans were all 
repaid early so the calculation is slightly more complicated.
NatWest still had to refund everything extra Ms S paid each month because PPI was added 
to the loans, and I can see it has done this.
But when each loan was repaid early and the PPI was cancelled, the insurer rebated part of 
the up-front premium. For example with loan 2 the insurer rebated £508.66 of the premium. 
But the rebate wasnt enough to completely repay what Ms S borrowed to buy the policy. So 
the loan 3 was higher because part of the PPI premium from loan 2 was carried over. This is 
called residual PPI and Id expect NatWest to work out how much extra Ms S had to pay 
because of residual PPI on her loans and repay this too. And from the calculations Ive seen 
I think it did this. 
So, looking at the calculations made by NatWest I can see it compensated Ms S for 
everything extra she paid because PPI was added to loans 2, 3 and 4 including any interest 
charged because of the PPI. And its then paid Ms S compensatory interest at 8% simple for 
the all the time shes been out of pocket and not had use of the money which I think is fair.
  
In summary I think NatWest has properly compensated Ms S for the sale of the four PPI 
policies in the way Id expect it to. It has calculated and refunded everything extra Ms S paid 
because the PPI was added to her loans. And it has calculated and paid compensatory 
interest calculated at 8% simple which I think is a fair rate to compensate her for the time 
shes been out of pocket. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont make any further award 
against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman