DRN-3018452
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car supplied to him on hire purchase by BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BMWFS) was not of satisfactory quality. Because of that, he says that he should be 
able to end the hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr P entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a 
new car priced at over £65,000.
Mr P says that the car has never been satisfactory and has complained in particular about 
rattles from within the cabin and a knocking noise from the rear of the car. He returned the 
car to the dealership for repairs, but the problems persisted. He believes he should be 
entitled to return the car and end the hire purchase agreement.
BMWFS did not agree that Mr P could reject the car. It said that the car was a high 
performance sports model fitted with a firm suspension and low-profile tyres which would 
give a firmer ride. It also said that, as Mr P had not raised any issues within six months of 
taking delivery of the car, any problems would not be taken to have been present at the point 
of supply.
Mr P referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He took the view that the car had not been of satisfactory quality when Mr P took 
delivery of it and that repairs had not been successfully carried out. He recommended that 
BMWFS take the car back at no cost to Mr P, return his deposit and end the agreement, as 
well as providing some compensation for the inconvenience he had suffered.
BMWFS did not agree to those recommendations and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. In that decision I said:
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that BMWFS would supply 
a car which was of satisfactory quality. That means a car of the quality a reasonable person 
would expect in the circumstances, including, for example, freedom from minor defects. In 
that context, it is important that this was a new car of a luxury brand costing significantly 
more than most. Mr Ps expectations were understandably high, and reasonably so.
In court proceedings it is generally for someone who alleges a fact to prove it. That is 
however modified in the case of some consumer contracts, including the hire purchase 
agreement in this case. Where it is apparent within six months of delivery that goods are not 
of satisfactory quality, there is an assumption that they were not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of delivery; that is, it is for the supplier (here, BMWFS) to show that they conformed to 
the contract at that time, not for the consumer to show that they did not.
This service is not bound by the same rules of evidence that a court would be, but I must 
have regard to any relevant law in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
BMWFS says that the faults about which Mr P complained occurred 10 and 12 months after 
delivery and are not therefore deemed to have been present or developing at the point of 
sale. That is not however the end of the matter. In court it would still be open to Mr P to show 
that there were faults at the point of sale, and it is equally open to me to conclude that there 
were  even if they came to light more than six months after delivery.
I note in this case that the dealership appears to have carried out some work aimed at 
reducing cabin noise in August and October 2019. It also carried out a running-in service in 
December 2018 and appears to have checked in April 2019 for noise issues but did not carry 
out any work at that time. After the work carried out in October 2019 Mr P initially indicated 
that he was satisfied his concerns had been addressed, but then said about a week later that 
they had returned.
My primary concern in this case however is that there is very little evidence to show that the 
car was not of satisfactory quality or that, if it was, repairs were not successful. Both the 
dealership and BMWFS say that the noise levels Mr P was experiencing were normal for this 
model. The dealership carried out some work, but it is not at all clear that it did so because it 
agreed the car was not of satisfactory quality.
Mr P has compared his experience of this car with his experience of other similar cars of the 
same make. He has also said that someone he knows with the same model has not had the 
same problems that he has described. In addition, he has provided footage (with sound) 
from inside the car while he has been driving it. This, he says, demonstrates unacceptable 
noise levels. I am not however persuaded that it does. The sound quality of the recording 
does not, I think, allow me safely to conclude that there was unacceptable noise or that the 
car was not of satisfactory quality.
It is possible of course that Mr P will be able to obtain and provide further evidence to 
support his case, and I will of course consider anything further he can provide in response to 
this provisional decision. My present view is however that I am not persuaded that the car 
was not of satisfactory quality. 
Mr P indicated that he was unhappy with my provisional decision. He said that he had since 
sold the car and that the buyer had immediately noticed the issue about which he had 
complained. He did not provide any further details, however, and he has not provided any 
further evidence for me to consider. 
BMWFS said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I indicated in my provisional decision that I thought it was possible that Mr P might be able to 
provide further evidence to support his case. I said I would consider any such evidence 
before reaching my final decision. As I have indicated, however, other than telling me that he 
has sold the car, Mr P has not sent in anything more. 
In the circumstances, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion from that set out in my 
provisional decision or to change my reasons for reaching that conclusion.   
My final decisionMy final decision is therefore that I do not require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman