DRN-2847617
The complaint
Miss G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) reduced her credit limit and 
didnt deal with her chargeback request.
What happened
Miss G had a Barclaycard with a limit of £20,000. In September 2020, the limit was reduced 
to £2,150. In July 2020, Miss G sent a chargeback request to Barclaycard.
Miss G complained  Barclaycard reduced her credit limit and she wants this reinstated. She 
wasnt advised of the reduction. She sent a chargeback claim to Barclaycard in July 2020 
and this wasnt been dealt with effectively. She also complained during the course of our 
investigations about the long wait times when calling Barclaycard and their complaints team.
In September 2020, Barclaycard said theyd acted within their responsible lending policies in 
reducing Miss Gs limit  they set limits according to what they believe customers can afford. 
They based their decision on Miss Gs balance over the previous 12 months, plus an 
analysis of all data available. They said theyd review her limit after six months if she wished 
 but they couldnt guarantee it would be increased again. On the chargeback claim, they 
asked Miss G for written confirmation that shed cancelled the service in question.
Miss G brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said Barclaycards terms and 
conditions allowed them to change customers limits if they wished. The reduction was 
shown on Miss Gs statement in September 2020, and Barclaycard also wrote to her on 12 
September 2020 to advise her. Barclaycard based their decision on Miss Gs use of her 
account  and they chose a limit which they thought was appropriate. He couldnt see that 
Miss G hadnt been charged any fees on her account. On the matter of the chargeback 
claim, Barclaycard had written to Miss G in December 2020 to ask for written cancellation of 
the service in question, but this hadnt been provided. So  Barclaycard couldnt take this 
any further.
Miss G disagreed and asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Miss G that Ive looked at everything to do with her complaint thoroughly 
and with a fresh pair of eyes. Firstly, during our investigation, Miss G also complained about 
wait times in getting through to Barclaycard  and about their complaint handling processes. 
Let me comment on those first. On wait times, its a fact that during the pandemic, wait times 
among many businesses have extended as theyve had to work out how they deal with 
customers, and set against many staff absences. Barclaycard were also affected by this  
and this service had allowed more flexibility in those matters for the time being. So  I cant 
say Barclaycard were at fault here  frustrating though it clearly was for Miss G. In so far as 
these wait times affected their complaint handing - the same applies. Miss G also said she 
was unhappy about how Barclaycard handled her complaints  but this service is governed 
by strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These are covered in The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as being about a financial 
product or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint handling or 
processes arent included. Miss Gs concerns here are specifically about how they handled a 
complaint and replied to it. So  this aspect of her complaint isnt one we can look at.
Turning to the reduction in Miss Gs limit from £20,000 to £2,150. I can see that this took 
place on 11 September 2020. Ive looked at Barclaycards terms and conditions  and they 
say that they can do this. They say We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, 
your account usage and history, information from other parts of the Barclays group, 
information we receive from credit reference agencies, and any other information we think is 
relevant. Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then 
review it from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know . 
However, the terms also say they dont have to give notice of any changes to credit limits: If 
we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have 
the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be appropriate. 
(However, we may choose to give you up to seven days notice.)
In Miss Gs case, I can see that the reduction in limit was shown on her statement dated 21 
September 2020. And, Ive seen Barclaycards records that they wrote to her on 12 
September 2020 to say that her limit was being reduced  in line with her usage of the limit 
We regularly review the credit limits we offer our customers, as a responsible lender. This is 
to ensure they only have a limit that we feel they need. By making sure limits are set at the 
right level, allows us to support all of our customers in these uncertain times. 
This is why weve decided to lower your limit to. on. 
Weve based this new limit on your card balance over last 12 months, so you should still 
have enough credit limit to keep using your card as you have been. You should also know 
that we looked at a range of factors to help us reach this decision, including the credit you 
have outstanding with other lenders.
They also invited Miss G to ask for an increase after six months.
Im not able to challenge Barclaycards decision to reduce Miss Gs limit  thats their 
commercial decision. But I would observe that Barclaycard have said that the decision was 
based on Miss Gs usage of the limit  and I can see from her statements that she didnt use 
her limit to its fullest  the average statement balance was less than £200 in 2020 before the 
reduction in limit. So  on that evidence she didnt need the higher limit of £20,000. Its 
therefore not clear that she was harmed by the reduction. And - she hasnt brought forward 
any evidence to say she was.
Barclaycard reduced the limit on 11 September 2020 but only wrote to Miss G on 12 
September 2020  so she got the letter after the event. In an ideal world, Miss G shouldve 
got the letter ahead of the reduction  but given what Ive seen in terms of Miss Gs usage of 
the limit, it doesnt look as if it caused any harm  the balance on her 21 August 2020 
statement was £1,143.09, so this was well within her new limit of £2,150.
Turning to Miss Gs complaint about the chargeback claim. I can see that she lodged the 
necessary forms with Barclaycard in July 2020. Barclaycard asked Miss G for more evidence 
in their final response dated September 2020. Ive seen evidence that Barclaycard also 
wrote to Miss G on 12 December 2020, asking for written proof that shed cancelled the 
service. This wasnt provided. Im not going to interfere with Barclaycards chargeback 
processes here  the simple fact is that theyve asked for more information, and unfortunately, Miss G hasnt provided it  so I cant take this aspect of her complaint any 
further.
I can see that Miss G feels strongly about whats happened. And so, she will be disappointed 
by my decision. But Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman