DRN-3796413
The complaint
Mr F complains about two loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as        
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), which he says were unaffordable. 
What happened
L2G agreed two loans for Mr F. Loan 1 was for £500 and was taken out in December 2019. 
Loan 2 was for £300 and was taken out in September 2021. Both of the loans have been 
repaid. Some of the information L2G provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 1/12/2019 5/6/2021 £500 £114.28 18
2. 8/9/2021 22/3/22 £300 £61.67 18
Mr F says that the enormous interest rate L2G charged made his financial situation much 
worse. Due to struggling to pay back the loans and the effects on his finances, he was 
forced to take out more loans to pay for the debt he had and to survive on a daily basis.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
the lender shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Fs financial situation 
and couldnt see that it did this. The adjudicator said that normally hed consider the 
information L2G should have gathered to see whether it wouldve found anything concerning 
which might have affected its decision to lend. But as Mr F hadnt sent such information to 
this Service, hed been unable to determine what L2G wouldve seen had it conducted 
proportionate checks. The adjudicator said that if Mr F was able to provide this information, 
hed consider whether it made a difference to his complaint.
In response to the adjudicators view, Mr F provided some of his bank statements from 
around the time of the loans and his credit report to this Service. The adjudicator reviewed 
this information. But he said that he hadnt seen anything which suggested the lender 
wouldve concluded that Mr F wouldnt have been able to have sustainably repaid these 
loans
Mr F disagreed and said that based on the documents hed sent to this Service, it could be 
seen that he was already in a lot of debt during Loan 2. He believed that if L2G had asked 
for this information before giving the loan, it would have acted differently. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F
and to L2G on 15 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when L2G lent to Mr F the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
Id said that L2G would be aware of the relevant regulations and how we considered 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I wouldnt go into detail on those points. 
Id thought about whether L2G completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Fs applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to make his repayments 
without experiencing adverse consequences. Id thought about the information it knew, and 
what it ought reasonably to have known.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £500. Id noted that L2G had gathered some information from Mr F about his 
income and expenditure. It had also carried out a credit check.
Mr F told L2G his monthly income was £1,500. But L2G said it verified that hed received a 
minimum monthly income of £1,084.86 via an online income verification tool. L2G had 
calculated Mr Fs monthly living expenses and credit commitments to total £820.48. So, it 
said that the loan repayments would have been affordable. 
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mr F had a total credit 
balance of £5,913. I could see that he had three active current accounts. On two of the 
accounts, Mr Fs £2,000 balance was at the respective accounts overdraft limit. Mr F was 
also near the overdraft limit on the third account. I thought L2G might have had concerns 
that Mr Fs finances might have been under pressure as he was at or near the overdraft limit 
on his three current accounts. 
Id noted that L2G had said in its final response letter that when a lender carries out a credit 
search, the information it sees is not usually up to date in that recently obtained credit may 
not be visible to the lender at the time of the application. So, I could see that L2G was aware 
that Mr F might have had other credit.
L2Gs affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mr F and I thought it should have been in 
his circumstances. Mr F was entering into a significant commitment with L2G. He would 
need to make monthly repayments of around £114 for 18 months. Given the length of time 
Mr F was committing to repay the credit and what L2G would have likely seen on its credit 
checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for L2G to get a clear picture of Mr Fs 
finances at the time. 
L2G needed to do more than just ascertain whether the loan repayments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this by, for example, 
requesting bank statements from Mr F and asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for his 
expenses. I couldnt see that L2G had taken steps to do this. 
But although I thought L2G should have asked for some additional information before 
agreeing the loan, that in itself didnt mean that Mr Fs complaint should succeed. I also 
needed to be persuaded that any further information would have shown L2G that Mr F 
couldn't repay the loan without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation. 
Mr F provided this Service with his bank statements for two current accounts from around 
the time of Loan 1 and his credit report. Id reviewed these to give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen, although I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks 
that L2G should have done. 
I thought that the statements suggested that Mr Fs financial circumstances were strained. 
Id asked the adjudicator to ask Mr F for more information about his income at the time. Mr F 
told this Service that he was living off student finance. Id noted that Mr F had received a 
student loan payment in September 2019, but most of this appeared to have been spent 
shortly after on rent, utilities and payday loan debt and Mr Fs main current account was near 
its overdraft within around a month. His second current account was also near its overdraft 
limit from early October 2019. Mr F appeared not to have received any other income in 
October 2019. Mr F told this Service that hed taken a part time job in November 2019 and I 
could see that he received £192.50 from that in November 2019. I could also see that Mr F 
had taken out two payday loans totalling £450 at the end of October 2019 and he borrowed 
short term credit of around £500 in November 2019. He also appeared to be receiving some 
money from family. At the same time, he was making monthly repayments totalling around 
£224 to two high cost loans hed borrowed in March 2019 and September 2019 and was 
paying for food, travel and utilities.
As Mr F was borrowing a significant amount of short term credit, I thought there was a very 
real prospect that he would need to borrow again in order to repay his new loan and that 
would likely have a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
So, I thought if L2G had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, it would 
have likely discovered that Mr Fs income was substantially less than hed declared, and the 
full extent of his financial commitments. I thought L2G ought reasonably to have realised that 
Mr F was over committed financially and that he was having significant difficulties managing 
his finances. Mr Fs finances werent stable, and I didnt think that further checks would have 
provided the assurance L2G needed. 
So, I thought L2G should reasonably have concluded that it made an unfair lending decision  
when it agreed to lend Loan 1 to Mr F.
Loan 2
I could see that L2Gs account notes for Loan 1 show a number of text messages in most 
months of the loan term telling Mr F his account was in arrears. So, I thought that L2G 
needed to exercise caution when considering lending to him for a second time around three 
months after Loan 1 was paid. 
Loan 2 was for £300. Id again noted that L2G had gathered some information from Mr F 
about his income and expenditure before granting the loan. It had also carried out a credit 
check.
Mr F told L2G his monthly income was £2,500 but L2G said that it verified that hed received 
a minimum monthly income of £1,668.87 via an online income verification tool. L2G 
calculated Mr Fs monthly living expenses and credit commitments to total £1,357.10. So, it 
said that the loan repayments would have been affordable. 
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mr F had a total credit 
balance of £7,292. So, his overall credit balance had increased since Loan 1. I could see 
that he had three active current accounts. And that on two of the accounts, the balance of 
£2,000 was still at the respective accounts overdraft limit. So, Mr F wasnt making any 
inroads in reducing this debt. Id also noted that Mr F had taken out two credit cards and a 
mail order account in the nine months period before his application for Loan 2 and his 
balances were approaching the credit limits on each of the accounts. So, again I thought L2G might have had concerns that Mr Fs finances might have been under pressure. Given 
the length of time Mr F was committing to repay the credit and what L2G would have likely 
seen on its credit checks, I would again have reasonably expected L2G to have taken steps 
to verify Mr Fs actual monthly income and expenditure to gain a more thorough 
understanding of his financial position in order to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay 
the loan without having to borrow again. L2G didnt say that it took steps to do this.
Mr F told this Service he was living at home at the time of Loan 2 and was paying for board. 
He was also doing some irregular work. Mr F provided this Service with his bank statements 
for one of his currents account from around the time of Loan 2 and his credit report. I could 
see that Mr F was also using another current account and I asked the adjudicator to ask    
Mr F for the bank statements for the second account which he provided. Id reviewed all the 
bank statements for July 2021 and August 2021 to give me the best picture of what the 
lender should have seen, although I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that L2G 
should have done. 
It appeared from the statements that Mr F earned between around £1,440 to £1,740 each 
month. The statements suggested that Mr Fs financial circumstances were still under 
pressure. If L2G had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, I thought it 
was likely it would have discovered that Mr Fs regular living costs and his financial 
commitments exceeded his income. And it should reasonably have realised that Mr F was 
over committed financially. 
Mr Fs account statements showed that he had exceeded the overdraft limit on one current 
account on several occasions and payments were returned. He was also near the overdraft 
limit on his second current account several times each month. In July 2021 and           
August 2021, he appeared to have borrowed short term credit totalling nearly £2,400 and 
there also appeared to be transfers from family members. Mr Fs finances werent stable and 
as he was borrowing a significant amount of short term credit just to fund his existing 
expenditure and credit commitments, I thought there was a very real prospect that Mr F 
would need to borrow again in order to repay his new loan and that would likely have a 
significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
So, if L2G had carried out the independent view of Mr Fs circumstances that I thought was 
needed for this loan, I thought it ought reasonably to have realised that Mr F was having 
problems managing his finances. And I didnt think that L2G had made a fair lending 
decision when it agreed to lend Loan 2 to Mr F. It was likely that agreeing more credit for him 
would simply add to his debt levels.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr F or L2G, I intended to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint and say that L2G should put things right as follows.
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
I understand that Loans 1 and 2 have been repaid. As I think that L2G was irresponsible to 
have lent to Mr F, he shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or charges on the loans. 
So, L2G should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr F on Loans 1 and 2;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to Loans 1 
and 2.*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give  
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr F responded to the provisional decision to say he was happy with it.
L2G responded to the provisional decision to say that it disagreed with it. It said, in 
summary, that:
 - There were no rules as to the checks to be carried out in respect of the loan application, 
given the size of the loans and the results of the credit checks it performed. L2G didnt think 
it would have been fair for it to have asked for more information.
 - The results from its checks were on the whole positive. There were no CCJs or defaults 
listed and Mr F was within his credit limits. It noted that all the credit commitments listed 
were reported as up to date or satisfied. It hadnt seen anything to suggest that Mr F was 
facing financial detriment or that further checks would have been required.
-It used an income verification tool with a credit reference agency (CRA) to check that 
Mr Fs bank account had turned over his stated income amount on average in the last    
6 and 12 months and this determined whether Mr Fs income amount, either gross 
annual or net monthly, was bona fide. For Loan 1 it verified that Mr Fs income was a 
minimum of £1,084.86, and for Loan 2 it verified that Mr Fs minimum income was 
£1,668.87. 
-Since it verified Mr Fs income, it had no reason to believe that the information given by 
Mr F on the applications wasnt accurate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of L2Gs response, I can confirm 
that Ive read and carefully considered all of the arguments it has made. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for it, but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it to have 
agreed the loans for Mr F. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional decision and Ive also 
responded to its main points in response to my provisional decision below. 
I note that L2G said that there were no rules as to the checks to be carried out. But the 
lender did need to take into account Mr Fs income and his ongoing expenditure for living 
expenses and other debts. Whilst it is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it 
wishes to carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments 
and the total cost of the credit. 
In Mr Fs circumstances, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what 
L2G had seen or ought to have seen in the information gathered, I think L2G needed to get a 
thorough understanding of Mr Fs financial position in order to properly assess whether hed 
be able to make the loan payments he was being asked to commit to as they fell due over 
the life of the agreements, without him having to borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. It could 
have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr F, asking for copies of 
payslips, bills and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about 
his existing credit commitments. 
I also note that L2G said that the results from its credit checks were on the whole positive. 
But as Ive set out above, I think the results of L2Gs credit checks on each of the loans 
should have caused the lender concerns as I think they suggested that Mr Fs finances could 
be under pressure. 
In addition, I note L2G has provided information about its income verification checks with the 
CRA and the amounts it used as Mr Fs monthly income in its assessment. But it hasnt 
provided any details of the results of its checks to this Service. So, I dont know whether the 
amounts passing through Mr Fs current account were income or something else.
I also note that L2G said in its response 
Loans2Go only verified the income required to ensure that the loans were affordable. For    
loan 1 we verified that [Mr Fs] income was a minimum of £1,084.86, and for loan2 we 
verified that [Mr Fs] minimum income was £1,668.87. He may well have been receiving 
more as he declared his income to be £1500 for loan 1 and £2,500 for loan 2. However, we 
only verified the income required to ensure the loans were affordable and sustainable for the 
customer.
I note that there was a discrepancy between what Mr F had said about his income and what 
L2G could see through its checks. I can see that L2G said that Mr F may well have been 
receiving more than the amounts it verified. But I think given the discrepancies for both 
loans, it should have taken additional steps to verify Mr Fs actual income amounts. I think it 
would have been reasonable in Mr Fs circumstances for it to have crosschecked these 
amounts with Mr Fs payslips or with his bank account statements. 
The two loans werent short term credit commitments. Bearing in mind the results of L2Gs 
checks and that Mr F was entering into commitments to make his monthly loan repayments 
for a relatively long period of time, I dont think it was sufficient in Mr Fs circumstances for 
L2G to rely on the information provided by Mr F in his loan applications. I also think that L2G 
might have been concerned that the loan amounts were significantly less than the monthly 
disposable incomes Mr F declared in his applications. It seems inconsistent to me that Mr F 
was applying for loan amounts of £500 and £300 when hed told L2G that he had 
significantly more than these amounts available each month. 
As Ive said above, if L2G had made better checks, it would have likely seen that Mr F was 
over committed financially and that he was having significant difficulties managing his 
finances. I dont think that L2Gs checks were enough here to get a clear picture of Mr Fs 
finances at the time of his loan applications for the lender to be confident that he would be 
able to make his loan repayments over the life of the agreements, without him having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a 
contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on his financial situation.
So, the additional information L2G has provided hasnt persuaded me that I should change 
my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and require L2G to pay Mr F some compensation and take the steps as set out above under the heading Putting things 
right  what L2G needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to take the steps set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman