DRN-3138867
The complaint
Ms T complains that the account she holds jointly with Mrs T was blocked without warning 
and that she wasnt provided with the service she should have been when trying to resolve 
the issue.
What happened
Ms T has explained that when her father passed away she became a joint account holder 
with her mother, Mrs T. She says she wasnt told there was any information missing from the 
account but when she tried to setup online banking the account was blocked. Ms T says she 
wasnt warned the account would be blocked and had to make several calls to try to resolve 
the issue and that Santander didnt call back when promised. She was told that visiting the 
branch with her identification would resolve the issue but was then told Mrs T would need to 
provide proof of identity and nationality. 
Ms T raised a complaint about the service she received and was told she could email the 
proof of identity for Mrs T. She was told the block would then be lifted in two to three days. 
Ms T says she didnt hear back from Santander and after a week and several emails 
contacted it again. After a few more days she was able to transfer some funds from the 
account but says she didnt know if this was a temporary lift of the block as Santander hadnt 
contacted her about it. Ms T says the issue and lack of communication has caused her a 
great deal of stress. 
Santander says that it needed to gather information as part of its legal and regulatory 
requirements. It sent letters requesting this and explaining that if the information wasnt 
provided then the account would be restricted. It says that as it didnt receive the information 
a block was placed on the account in December 2020. After it received the relevant 
information this was removed. It accepted that it hadnt provided the service it should have 
and paid £30 in January 2021 and £70 in February 2021 because of this.
Our investigator accepted that Santander had written to Mrs T asking for information and 
explained what would happen if this wasnt provided. Therefore, she didnt think Santander 
was wrong to restrict the account until the account holders were verified. However, she didnt 
think that Ms T and Mrs T had experienced the service they should have. She noted 
Santander had offered to pay £30 in January 2021 for the delays and £70 for the delays in 
actioning the removal of the block in February 2021. Following the investigation, Santander 
offered to pay a further £50 because of the failed call backs and overall customer 
experience. 
Our investigator thought total compensation of £150 was reasonable in this case. 
Ms T didnt accept the offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry that Ms T has experienced so many issues when dealing with the account she 
holds jointly with Mrs T. I understand this all happened at a difficult time having suffered 
family bereavement and that resolving the issue was especially hard given the pandemic 
and that Mrs T was vulnerable and needed to shield. Against this background I have 
considered whether the redress offered by Santander is reasonable.
The account was blocked and while I note Ms T says she wasnt told this would happen, I 
can see that Santander wrote to both her and Mrs T in November explaining that it needed 
additional account information in order to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. It said if 
the information wasnt provided within 14 days access to the account Ms T and Mrs T jointly 
held would be restricted. Therefore, I do not find I can say Santander did anything wrong by 
taking the actions it did.
However, Ms T hasnt been provided with the service she should have been while trying to 
resolve the issue. When she contacted Santander, she wasnt given clear details about what 
information was missing from the account and wasnt contacted by Santander when 
expected. This caused unnecessary delay, inconvenience and stress. I can see that £30 was 
paid in January 2021 and a further £70 in February 2021 due to the issues she had 
experienced. However, taking into account the stress the delays and lack of contact caused 
at an already difficult time, I agree that further compensation should be paid.
In this case Santander offered to pay a further £50 compensation for the poor customer 
service and failed call backs. This brings the total compensation for the issues Ms T and 
Mrs T experienced to £150. 
As I do not find that Santander was wrong to restrict the account in December 2020, the 
compensation is required only in relation to the service Ms T received when trying to resolve 
the issue. And in this case I think a total of £150 is reasonable.
Putting things right
Santander should pay the further £50 as it has offered (bringing the total compensation to 
£150) in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay the additional £50 compensation 
(bringing the total to £150) as it has offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman