DRN-2770906
The complaint
This complaints about Mr Cs mortgage with National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest). Its 
a joint mortgage taken out with Mr Cs then-wife, but theyre now estranged. Mrs C makes 
the payments on the joint mortgage with NatWest; Mr C has his own mortgage. The 
complaint is that NatWest granted payment holidays on the mortgage at Mrs Cs sole 
request, contrary to Mr Cs wishes. Mr Cs also unhappy with how NatWest dealt with the 
complaint, and with the apparently confusing and contradictory things it told him. Mrs C 
hasnt joined the complaint.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to Mr C and NatWest. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr C 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
In early 2020, NatWest approved a payment holiday at Mrs Cs request; Mr C was informed 
of this by letter and wasnt happy. Although he told NatWest it should not do this without his 
consent, a second payment holiday requested by Mrs C was also granted. When Mr C 
complained, NatWest initially responded by apologising and paying Mr C £350 for his time 
and trouble. It also said it would contact Mrs C to tell her the second payment holiday 
wouldnt be going ahead after all.
However, shortly after that, NatWest changed its position and wrote to Mr C explaining that 
the second payment holiday would proceed as originally granted. By then, Mr C had referred 
his complaint to us. He also reported what he considered to a be a possible fraud to the 
police; the police explained it was a civil dispute, not something it would deal with.
Our investigator thought NatWest had acted reasonably on the underlying complaint, given 
the difficult circumstances that existed between the joint borrowers. As far as Mr Cs 
dissatisfaction with how NatWest had handled the complaint was concerned, she explained 
that this fell outside our remit. Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function here; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the following are the conclusions Ive come to along with the reasons for 
them.
When, as here, a lender received a request to make a change to a joint mortgage, but only 
one of the borrowers has consented, its in a difficult position. It has to consider what is the 
best option (or sometimes, the least worst option) for both borrowers. 
When doing that, the lender cant just take into account what the borrowers have said they 
want (or dont want). It has to make a judgement on what is in the borrowers best interests. 
Those best interests might differ between the borrowers and, more pertinently, might differ 
from the borrowers expressed wishes. Making that judgement becomes more difficult still 
when the borrowers expressed wishes are in direct conflict with each others.
Having considered everything that both parties to this complaint have said and provided, Im 
satisfied NatWest made the right judgements; firstly when it granted the initial payment 
holiday, and then secondly, when it changed its mind about the follow-up payment holiday 
and granted it after all. Mr C might think otherwise, but this was clearly the least worst option 
for both borrowers, and best served their conflicting wishes.
Mr C and Mrs Cs wishes might have conflicted, but their best interests were more 
closely-aligned that perhaps Mr C realises. The payment holidays were granted under 
special rules introduced by the regulator in response to the global pandemic; a key provision 
of these special rules being that no adverse information be reported on borrowers credit 
files. Had the payment holidays not been granted, then any missed payments would have 
been treated as arrears, which would have been reported on both Mrs Cs and Mr Cs credit 
files. In essence NatWest ignored what Mr C wanted and did what he needed, even if he 
didnt realise it.
That brings me to how NatWest handled Mr Cs complaint when he made it, and the general 
level of communication and information he received. Our investigator has already explained 
why this falls outside our remit; except in limited circumstances that dont apply here, 
complaint-handling isnt one of the activities listed in the statutory rules that govern what 
types of complaint the Financial Ombudsman Service can deal with. So I cant make any 
specific findings here, but I will make a general observation.
Situations such as this, where joint borrowers have ended their relationship, are obviously 
difficult and sensitive for the individuals involved. But its often forgotten that theyre also 
difficult for the lender. It has to run separate lines of communication with both borrowers, and 
keep each one entirely confidential from the other. Every time a lender has a dialogue with 
one of its borrowers that results in a change to the mortgage, it has to tell the other borrower 
of that change, but without revealing anything about the dialogue with the other party that led 
to it.
Thats a very fine balancing act, and I think a lender in such a situation, like NatWest is here, 
can be forgiven the occasional mis-step. Lastly, NatWest has paid Mr C £350 compensation 
for his time, trouble and upset. I think thats more than generous; if no payment had been 
made, I would not be awarding more.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman