DRN-2713662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different 
business name) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on, to keep things 
simpler, Ill just refer to Lloyds as the seller.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a joint mortgage in 1979. 
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1987. It looks like the PPI covered both of 
them and protected their mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
To briefly summarise, Mr and Mrs D mainly complain that the PPI wasnt suitable for them as 
it wasnt something they ever needed. They told us they both had excellent sick pay 
arrangements through work as well as substantial savings they couldve relied on if they 
werent able to work. 
Although its been difficult for Mr and Mrs D to remember exactly what happened so long 
ago, they feel that it wasnt ever made clear to them that taking out PPI was optional. They 
told us they trusted Lloyds was working in their best interests and giving correct advice. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
After careful consideration, Im planning not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Ideally, Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. But Lloyds hasnt been able to provide anything 
signed by Mr and Mrs D to show how they agreed to take out PPI. I dont think thats 
surprising. I wouldnt expect Lloyds or Mr and Mrs D to have kept records for so long. The 
fact that Lloyds cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to uphold this 
complaint. 
And whilst I don't doubt that Mr and Mrs D are certain about what theyve told us, its 
completely understandable that they also told us they can't remember all the sales details. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. I need to 
think about the wider circumstances and make reasonable assumptions where necessary. I 
must be impartial. 
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs D werent given a 
fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent. 
But I cant fairly say this based on the very limited information Ive got. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs D didnt take out PPI when their mortgage started  by the time they 
took out the policy their mortgage had already been running for some years without PPI. So 
at the time, I think that Mr and Mrs D would've understood that PPI wasnt required as part of 
their mortgage. 
But I can see why they mightve decided they did want to have the benefits it offered.
I say this because their mortgage was a major financial commitment, still due to run for a 
substantial number of years when they took out the PPI. Mr and Mrs Ds home couldve 
been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided a dependable 
means of ensuring their monthly repayments were protected even if they couldnt work. So, 
I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On balance, I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs D decided they wanted to protect their home by taking out PPI. And it was added 
to their mortgage at their request.  
Lloyds was unable to confirm the benefit split between Mr and Mrs D and assessed the case 
based on the basis that it covered them both. 
As it appears that Mr and Mrs D were both in long term employment, with no paperwork to 
show who had the PPI, I agree the fairest way to assess their complaint is to look at it on the 
basis that Lloyds recommended PPI for them both and they each had a share of the policy 
benefits. 
If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. 
Looking at the complaint this way (as if Lloyds personally recommended the PPI) gives 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint the best chance of success. And given the lack of available 
information, I think its reasonable for me to approach the complaint this way. 
Thinking about the likely policy terms which would've applied, Ive seen nothing to make me 
think that Mr and Mrs D wouldnt both have been eligible for the policy. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs D told us about their sick pay arrangements at work. 
But I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have found PPI useful. It couldve paid 
a monthly benefit on top of any sick pay benefits and in full for longer - up to 12 months per 
claim if either (or both) Mr and Mrs D couldnt work as a result of sickness or disability. This 
couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if they needed to 
claim as Mr and Mrs D mightve had extra costs if one or both of them was ill or disabled.  
Ive noted that there was a possibility of Mrs D being paid discretionary sick pay over and 
above this. 
But Im looking at what Mrs D told us about her contractual entitlement  because thats all 
she could safely rely on. Hoping an employer might pay sick pay when it doesn't have to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit in the event of a 
successful claim.
Also the policy wouldve paid out if Mr and Mrs D became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mr and Mrs D if they were off 
work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money they mightve got 
if theyd lost their jobs, giving them some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs D had substantial savings. But there can be no 
guarantee that they would always have savings to rely on if they werent both able to work. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs D could keep savings secure in the long term as they 
wouldnt have been forced to use this money to pay the mortgage if they werent able to 
work. And, bearing in mind that it appears they didnt put all their available money towards 
keeping down the cost of borrowing, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs D would've valued the 
protection PPI offered if it meant they could keep their savings intact to provide financial 
security. 
I've taken into account also that Mr and Mrs D mentioned having an endowment policy of 
considerably more value than their mortgage borrowing. But this doesnt mean that the PPI 
wasnt still suitable for them. 
Setting up PPI alongside their mortgage meant they werent at risk of having to cash in their 
endowment policy early  possibly when they couldnt be sure of getting a good return. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs D could keep their endowment running to cash in later or 
provide them with financial security.
Looking overall at all the information Ive seen, and thinking about their circumstances, in my 
view the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. 
There were likely some things the policy didnt cover  typically, being self-employed or in 
any sort of work arrangement other than full-time permanent employment might have made 
it harder to claim on the policy. And pre-existing medical conditions often werent covered 
under PPI policies. 
But it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs D wouldve been affected by any of the usual conditions 
limiting the policys main benefits as they were both in secure long term jobs and in full time 
employment and had good health when they took out PPI. So, I dont think having more 
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to them when they 
bought the policy. But they added the policy to their mortgage account when they didnt have 
to  so it looks like they wanted the cover and were happy to pay for it at the time. I've seen 
nothing to suggest that the monthly premiums werent affordable for Mr and Mrs D when 
they started the policy  so thats not a reason for me to think they wouldve been put off 
taking it out. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs D still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as 
it looks like it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think better 
information wouldve put Mr and Mrs D off buying PPI. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs D told us, including what theyve said about 
the way Lloyds dealt with PPI on another account. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and the PPI sold 
with this mortgage in 1987. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs D have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate they 
feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a 
disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the 
outcome of their mis-sale complaint. Although Mr and Mrs D mentioned some other things 
during the course of this complaint I can see that our adjudicator has been dealing 
separately with those issues and they do not impact on whether the PPI mis-sold to them in 
1987  which is what I must decide. 
Looked at overall, as things stand, I havent seen enough to be able to say that 
Mr and Mrs D lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did wrong when it sold them this PPI.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs D have responded to my provisional decision. In brief summary, they disagree 
with my view. Mr and Mrs D still feel that PPI was mis-sold to them. They say that it wasnt 
insurance they ever felt they wanted or needed and they signed up to PPI only because they 
understood it was something they had to have with their mortgage. Mr and Mrs D say they 
already had a network of financial security in place and so the benefits the policy offered 
werent a consideration for them at the time. They also point out that they never claimed on 
the policy. 
Lloyds hasnt responded to what I've said in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Mr and Mrs D havent provided me with any new information that changes what 
I think about this case. Id already considered all the main points they have asked me to take 
into account when thinking about my provisional decision and addressed all the points 
mentioned which have a bearing on the outcome. 
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs D feel I have attached undue importance to policy benefits which 
they say werent what motivated them to buy the policy. Ive thought carefully about what the 
policy could potentially offer Mr and Mrs D because if I thought that it didnt offer them any 
meaningful benefits then that could be a reason for me to uphold their complaint  even if 
they had chosen to take it out. So thats why Ive set out all the ways I think the policy 
couldve been useful to Mr and Mrs D if they had needed to claim. 
And even if there were shortcomings in the way this policy was sold to Mr and Mrs D, I still 
think it likely that they wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been given clearer 
information as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation.
The policy was designed to protect Mr and Mrs D in the event of unexpected and unplanned 
events happening. The fact that they didnt ever make a claim isnt a reason for me to uphold 
their complaint and it doesnt mean it was mis-sold. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D take a different view to me. I hope that setting things out as 
Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman