DRN-3384225
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) declined a claim made on his income 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had had the benefit of an income insurance policy which started in March 2020. In the 
event of a successful claim, the policy provides a monthly benefit should certain events take 
place, including unemployment. 
In August 2020, Mr B was given notice by his employer that his employment would be 
terminated. 
He made a claim under the policy but that claim was ultimately declined by Lloyds; it said Mr 
B was first notified that his employment was at risk of termination within the first 120 days of 
the policy starting so his claim was excluded. 
Mr B didnt think that was fair. So, he complained to Lloyds. He was also unhappy about the 
delay in reaching a claims decision. His complaint wasnt upheld. Mr B then brought his 
complaint to our service. Hes confirmed that the complaint brought to our service to 
investigate is confined to Lloyds decision to decline his claim. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended Mr Bs complaint be upheld. 
She asked Lloyds to backdate and pay Mr Bs unemployment claim from the date the 
benefit was due to the date of settlement is paid together with 8% simple interest per year. 
Lloyds disagreed. This complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
I uphold Mr Bs complaint as I dont think Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in the all 
the circumstances of this case by declining Mr Bs claim. Ill explain why.
The policy contains an initial exclusion period meaning that no unemployment claim will be 
payable if you are notified of or made aware by any means, within the Initial Exclusion 
Period, of anything which might lead to Your Unemployment may not take place until after 
the Initial Exclusion Period. 
Initial Exclusion period is defined as: the 120 days immediately following the Policy Start 
date when You cannot claim for unemployment. 
And the part of the definition of unemployment which is relevant to the exclusion period is 
you are out of work directly due to circumstances beyond your control
Mr Bs employer told Lloyds that Mr Bs employment was terminated due to inadequate job 
performance. And when asked by Lloyds: what date did discussion first take place with the 
employee concerning their likely termination of employment, the answer was April 2020. 
This date was also used by Mr Bs employer when answering the question: what is the 
earlier date that they would have been aware that their employment was likely to be 
terminated or was at risk?. 
And Mr Bs employer also confirmed that Mr B had been aware that his employment may be 
terminated or was at risk before 1 July 2020, which is within the first 120 days of the policy 
starting. It said that hed had more than half a dozen performance hearings and was told in 
performance hearings that this job was at risk on several occasions.
This is, of course, relevant evidence for Lloyds to take into account. 
However, Mr B says he wasnt first made aware that his employment was at risk or might be 
terminated in April 2020. He says he wasnt made aware of that until August 2020, when he 
received a letter of shortcomings - shortly before he was given notice of his employment 
being terminated. 
Ive seen the documentary evidence Lloyds has obtained from Mr Bs employer from 
between March and August 2020 in particular, which the employer has relied on as giving 
warnings to Mr B about his performance. Looking at this evidence, I accept what Mr B says; 
that he wasnt aware form the correspondence that it was likely his employment would be 
terminated, or that his employment was, somehow, at risk.
Its clear that his employer was providing prompts about what Mr B was required to do and 
expectations were set. And in its view, he ought to be performing better in his role. Lloyds 
has said that the employer had handwritten various comments on the printouts such as 
warning and strong warning. 
This might be how the employer viewed them. However, theres nothing in the 
correspondence Ive seen that supports Mr B was given any official warnings  whether 
verbally or in writing - about his performance - or that failure to improve could result in his 
employment being terminated.
So, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
decline the claim relying on the exclusion that Mr B was notified or made aware of anything 
which might lead to his unemployment during the first 120 days of the start of the policy.
Putting things right
I direct Lloyds to reassess Mr Bs claim on the basis that the exclusion relating to the initial 
exclusion period isnt applicable to the circumstances of Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct the Societys Lloyds to put things right as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman