DRN-3656422
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to properly credit his account after depositing 
cash in a store and provided poor customer service.
What happened
Mr B explained that hed sold a vehicle and together with some extra cash, thought he had 
£10,000 in total. He described depositing the cash in his local Metro store where the cash 
was weighed by the cashier. 
The machine showed the cash amounted to £10,200 and Mr B was provided with the £200 
and deposited the rest into his account. Metro have stated that the cash was put into a 
drawer and later counted to check it. At that point it was realised there was less cash than 
theyd told Mr B hed deposited. Mr B was called about the problem and was told various 
different amounts had been counted. The final tally of his cash was £8,900 and Mr Bs 
account was adjusted to show this. Metro carried out checks of their other tills and machines 
at the store to see if any extra funds had been found. No other unexpected funds were found 
and the various tills were found to balance.
Mr B was unhappy with how Metro had handled his deposit and maintained that he thought 
hed deposited £10,000. During a follow up conversation with the manager, Mr B felt he was 
treated poorly and complained to Metro about the deposit and his treatment.
Metro investigated the issue and reviewed CCTV of the cashiers area and checked the 
various tills. After reviewing the evidence, Metro couldnt find any additional deposits, but 
accepted that theyd let Mr B down with their service. Metro offered Mr B £50 which he 
declined.
Mr B then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who reviewed evidence from both 
parties. Mr B explained what had happened but hadnt any evidence to show the amount he 
was depositing on the day. He stated that the money was counted the night before and 
amounted to £10,000. Mr B was also unable to view CCTV of the deposit.
Metro provided details of the tills they were using on the day and explained how theyd 
checked the CCTV which only showed the cash being deposited into a drawer by the 
cashier. Metro carried out a full accounting of the cash at the store and confirmed their cash 
holding matched their records.
Our investigator thought that Metro had probably miscounted the cash deposited by Mr B 
and didnt uphold that aspect of his complaint, but he did think Metro had let Mr B down with 
how theyd handled the situation. He recommended that Metro pay Mr B £250.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of the 
complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The essential aspects of this complaint are that Mr B believes he deposited £10,000 and 
Metro recorded only £8,900 when they recounted his deposit. Theres clearly a difference 
between what either party believes, therefore I have to base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words what I believe was likely to have happened based on the 
available evidence.
Mr B told us that hed recently sold a vehicle and together with other cash he had, was 
depositing £10,000 into his account. Its difficult to be certain what was deposited as theres 
no evidence of what cash Mr B had with him, nor anything Ive seen that showed the sale of 
a vehicle. What Mr B has said is that it was counted the night before by a family member and 
he was told it was £10,000.
When Mr B turned up at the bank, he was told it was £10,200 and £200 was returned to him. 
So here we have a difference already in what was expected to be deposited because Mr B 
thought it was only £10,000. Metro have reported that the cash was put into a drawer on its 
own which theyve also confirmed after reviewing CCTV. 
It was then counted and reported to Mr B by telephone that there was a problem. Mr B was 
given different amounts by Metro staff which Im sure wasnt helpful to him. Mr B was 
consistent throughout that he thought he was depositing £10,000 and the changes in the 
amounts of his deposit no doubt left him with little confidence about what Metro were doing 
with his cash. Ultimately, Metro checked their tills and the rest of the store for unexpected 
cash and nothing was found. They re-checked the deposit and found it to be £8,900.
I accept that this is a finely balanced complaint and its apparent that Metro werent operating 
as well as they might have expected that day. I do think that Metro let Mr B down with how 
they dealt with his deposit whilst he was in store and subsequently when they were trying to 
determine the exact amount hed deposited. But, I dont think theres enough evidence to say 
that they credited Mr Bs account with the wrong amount. I have to take into account the fact 
that Metro recognised the problem the same day and tried to sort it out. There were multiple 
staff members involved in counting and recounting the funds, so it seems unlikely that they 
would be unable to find unexplained cash at the store. 
Ive also thought about the lack of evidence that can shed light on the amount Mr B brought 
in with him that day. Im sure he thought it was £10,000 as thats what hed been told the 
night before and hed have no reason to question that. But, as it cant be confirmed what he 
was carrying, I dont think  along with the other evidence Ive considered, that theres 
enough to say that Metro lost part of his cash.
Customer Service
Metro accepted that theyd let Mr B down with how theyd handled the situation, and how Mr 
B was communicated with in the aftermath of his visit. I agree, Metro dealt with the deposit 
poorly by allowing a counting machine to be used that hadnt been checked prior to Mr Bs 
deposit and they then repeatedly miscounted the cash, telling Mr B different amounts. Metro 
offered Mr B £50 for their lack of customer service, but I dont think that sufficiently 
recognises the impact this had on him. Our investigator recommended a total payment of 
£250 for the way Metro handled the situation, including the impact this had on Mr B. I think 
thats a reasonable amount considering what he experienced.I appreciate Mr B was unhappy when he wasnt able to view the CCTV. Ive also not been 
able to review it, so have accepted the report from Metro about what it covered and I have 
no reason to doubt their conclusions about this. 
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, Metro are to pay Mr B £250 for the way they handled the 
deposit and how they dealt with him after it became apparent there had been an error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Metro Bank PLC to settle 
the complaint as Ive set out above. For the avoidance of doubt, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint about the actual amount that was deposited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman