DRN-3834087
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI in 1990 during a sales process that neither party recalls. 
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr M for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M subsequently decided that they 
would like the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
I know its frustrating to Mr and Mrs M that BoS no longer has any paperwork relating to the 
sale. However, banks arent expected to keep records indefinitely and we wouldnt expect 
them to. 
Mr and Mrs M also dont have any real recollection of the sale, which is not surprising given 
how long ago it took place.
From what we know of BoSs sales process at the time, the PPI would normally have been 
presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
The mortgage had started in 1987 and Mr and Mrs M did not take out PPI at that time. 
Therefore, when they were sold it in 1990 they would have been aware that it was not a 
condition of the borrowing.
Based on the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that they werent given a choice 
about taking out the policy. It seems to me that they probably had an interest in the policy 
and decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they have no particular 
recollection of that now.
In the absence of any available evidence, weve treated this as an advised sale. This 
means that, in recommending the policy, BoS had to ensure that it met Mr and Mrs Ms 
needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for 
them. 
Mrs M wasnt working at the time, so it makes sense that the policy was set up just to cover 
Mr M. 
Mr M says he would have received some sick pay from his job. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than he would have received 
full pay for. And Mr and Mrs M didnt have any other means, such as substantial savings, to 
fall back on if Mr M had been unable to work. 
Mr M has recently mentioned a couple of medical conditions that he had at the time. 
However, these appear to have been minor and controlled with medication. So I doubt Mr M 
would have thought that one of these conditions might be a reason for him needing to make 
a claim on the policy.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at 
what would have been a difficult time. So it was reasonable of BoS to recommend it to 
them.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But, for the reasons explained above, Mr M 
wasnt affected by any of those things. So Mr and Mrs M are no worse off as a result of 
anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that BoS needs to do to put things 
right. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman