DRN-3141536
The complaint
Mrs H complains London & Colonial Services Limited caused her a financial loss by delaying 
the transfer of her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to another provider. She says it 
didnt respond promptly to enquiries or warn her of an early withdrawal charge. 
Mrs H complained to Options Pensions UK (part of the STM group), which provides third 
party administration services to London & Colonial Services Limited. But London & Colonial 
is responsible for answering the complaint, so to keep things simple Ill refer to them in the 
decision. 
What happened
Mrs H is based in Switzerland, and in 2017 on the advice of her Swiss financial adviser, 
opened an international SIPP provided by London & Colonial Services Limited (L&C). 
In April 2018 L&C confirmed it had received around £241,363, being the deferred benefits of 
Mrs Hs UK Group Personal Pension. Mrs H was advised to open a portfolio bond with STM 
Life, based in Gibraltar, paying a premium of £226,905 to be held in her SIPP, with L&C as 
the trustee. In June 2018 the adviser arranged for around £48,000 to be used to purchase 
units in a structured investment Ill call C to be held within the portfolio bond. The balance 
of around £192,000 remained in the cash account. 
At some point later Mrs Hs adviser no longer acted for her, and she struggled to appoint 
another one, either based in Switzerland or the UK, so she had nobody to make investments 
on her behalf. And she was unable to arrange investments herself as the servicing platform 
shed been given access to only worked from the UK. By now Mrs H was very concerned at 
the investment loss arising from the bulk of her funds remaining in cash. There was some 
communication back and forth between Mrs H and L&C, but the issue remained unresolved. 
By late 2019 Mrs H had lost faith in L&C so asked how she could transfer to a new provider. 
L&C explained the process, and in June 2020 L&C sent disinvestment instructions by post to 
STM Lifes offices in Gibraltar. STM released the proceeds of the portfolio bond to L&C at 
the end of July 2020, and L&C completed the transfer to Mrs Hs new provider in early 
August 2020. 
Mrs H was shocked to find the proceeds were significantly less than shed expected, due to 
an early withdrawal charge she didnt know about. Mrs H feels L&C should have made her 
aware of this when it explained the transfer process. She was also unhappy shed been 
charged management fees throughout, despite her funds being largely uninvested.
Mrs H complained to both L&C and STM Life. The complaint against STM Life was dealt with 
separately and doesnt form part of this decision.
L&C didnt uphold her complaint. So Mrs H referred her complaint to this service, on the 
basis shed expected L&C and STM Life to have worked more cooperatively together, being 
part of the same overall corporate group. And if shed been told about the early withdrawal 
charge she wouldnt have requested the transfer to a new provider. As shes now worse off, 
she feels L&C should compensate her for the loss.
One of our investigators explained L&C and STM Life may belong to the same overall 
corporate group, but they are separate legal entities based in two different countries. He 
didnt think it was reasonable to expect L&C to be aware of the early withdrawal charge 
applicable to another firms product. He said Mrs Hs financial adviser was responsible for 
ensuring the product was suitable for her needs, and that she understood the terms and 
conditions, including any fees and charges. He could see from the portfolio bonds 
application form that the investment was intended for the longer term, with an early 
withdrawal charge reducing by 1% each year for the first ten years. He didnt think L&C was 
responsible for Mrs Hs investment loss or the early withdrawal charge. But he could see 
L&C hadnt always responded to Mrs Hs queries promptly, requiring her to chase several 
times, and the delay in responding wouldve added to her worry. So he said L&C should pay 
Mrs H £300.
L&C agreed to pay £300 and Mrs H accepted the outcome initially. But on reflection she still 
thought it was unfair L&C hadnt been held responsible for not telling her of the early 
withdrawal charge and hadnt been more helpful when her funds were uninvested. 
So she asked an ombudsman to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Let me explain 
why.
There are a number of different firms involved here. But this complaint is just about the 
actions of L&C. 
Mrs Hs Swiss adviser recommended the transfer of her pension funds to the L&C SIPP and 
arranged for the portfolio bond with STM Life to be opened. L&C didnt advise Mrs H and 
isnt responsible for ensuring the products met her needs or she understood them. L&C is 
the SIPP provider and trustee. A SIPP is a wrapper which allows a range of different 
investment types to be held within it. The portfolio bond application form completed on 
Mrs Hs behalf by her adviser, states that it should be read in conjunction with the Key 
Features for the product, and the bond documentation which would have been provided at 
the time. 
The form sets out the bonds charges, which were STM Lifes quarterly fixed fee of £100 for 
sterling bonds, plus a quarterly management charge of 0.25% of the value, for the first ten 
years. It also explained the Early Encashment Charge payable for the first ten years as 
follows 10% of the total premium reducing by 1.0% p.a. for 10 years. There are no Early 
Encashment charges after 10 years. 
The Investment instructions section of the form has the handwritten note To be Advised, 
so the funds werent invested at the outset. 
The illustration dated 25 October 2017 showed the potential investment returns over ten 
years. Underneath it warned If the policy is surrendered in the first 10 years surrender 
penalties will be applicable that would reduce the above figures. And in the same illustration 
under Investment category it shows that the full premium of £226,905 was held in cash. It looks like Mrs H signed the bottom of the illustration on that date, so I think its likely she saw 
it at the time.  I cant hold L&C responsible if the adviser didnt make the terms clear to 
Mrs H, or if she didnt understand the product she was applying for.
In June 2018 the adviser arranged to invest £48,000 in the C product, which the fact sheet 
describes as a 6 year investment linked to the performance of Chinese, Italian, Swedish 
and Australian indices, with the remainder of Mrs Hs investment still in cash. 
It seems to me Mrs Hs problems arose when her adviser was no longer able to give 
investment instructions on her behalf, following the initial £48,000 investment with C. I dont 
know why that was, but Mrs H told L&C in November 2019 she hadnt been able to appoint a 
new adviser, either in Switzerland or the UK. So she wanted to know how she could view her 
investments online and if she could self-invest, or if shed have to transfer to another 
provider. I cant hold L&C responsible for difficulties arising from Mrs H no longer having a 
financial adviser acting for her. But I think it couldve provided a better service.
I can see Mrs H initially contacted the generic email of the L&C servicing team. But when 
she didnt receive a reply, she contacted a named individual and asked if she should raise 
her concerns with the regulator. This prompted a telephone discussion in December 2019, 
followed up by an email from L&C covering self-investing, fees, the need for a financial 
adviser and whether a UK-based adviser could service a client in Switzerland. I dont think it 
was particularly helpful to suggest Mrs H could self-invest through the Selftrade platform as 
she discovered it wasnt an appropriate solution for someone based outside the UK. L&C 
provided Mrs H with the transfer form to send to her chosen new provider. Email 
conversations carried on during January 2020, with Mrs H becoming increasingly frustrated 
by the lack of progress. Shed decided on a new provider and wanted the transfer to proceed 
without further delay. So I understand why Mrs H felt L&C werent being helpful. 
Investments in a SIPP are held by the SIPP trustee (L&C) on behalf of Mrs H. So STM Life 
would only accept surrender instructions from L&C as the policyholder, not Mrs H herself. 
L&C sent disinvestment instructions to STM Life by post on 18 June 2020, two days after it 
received them from the new provider, which I think is a reasonable timescale. Im not clear 
what caused the lack of progress between January and June 2020. But as L&C didnt 
receive the instructions until 16 June 2020 and sent them on to STM Life promptly, it doesnt 
look like they contributed significantly to the delay. 
Many UK based providers have access to an electronic system to facilitate transfers. But 
L&C was aware STM Life is based in Gibraltar, and providers often require original signed 
instructions to surrender investments, rather than accept an electronic copy. So I cant say it 
was unreasonable of L&C to send the instructions in the post. It seems STM Life didnt 
receive the instructions until 8 July 2020, 12 working days later, but I cant hold L&C 
responsible for the postal service. And then the surrender process involved the instructions 
being forwarded to the custodian. L&C says it chased STM Life a number of times and 
provided an example of a chaser email. The proceeds (less the early withdrawal charge) 
were received by STM Life on 16 July, and sent to L&C on 29 July 2020, nine days later. 
L&C completed the transfer to the new provider on 4 August, four working days later. 
End to end the transfer took more than 30 working days, but from what Ive seen L&C acted 
promptly and didnt cause any unreasonable delays. I understand Mrs H doesnt see the 
distinction between L&C and STM Life, as they are part of the same overall group. But as 
Ive explained, this decision purely concerns the actions of L&C. And I dont hold them 
responsible for Mrs Hs loss caused by her funds being uninvested for so long, and it wasnt 
L&Cs role to explain the product fees or the early withdrawal charge.I think L&C couldve been clearer with Mrs H about how she could self-invest, it didnt always 
respond to her queries promptly, or get back to her when it said it would. And its clear Mrs H 
found the lack of progress while her funds remained in cash quite stressful. So for these 
reasons I think a fair outcome would be for L&C to pay Mrs H £300.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. London and Colonial Services Limited should pay Mrs H £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman