DRN-3734615
The complaint
Miss R complains Admiral Financial Services Ltd failed to remove the details of a fraudulent 
loan from her credit file as it had agreed to do in 2019. This in turn caused Miss R problems 
obtaining a mortgage offer, which she complains led to her having to pay an extra £5,000 to 
secure her property purchase. Miss R has asked Admiral Financial Services to compensate 
her for the £5,000.
Miss R is being represented by Mr R  but for ease of reading Ill only refer to Miss R in the 
decision.
What happened
A third party fraudulently obtained a £5,000 loan with Admiral Financial Services in Miss Rs 
name in 2018. After the matter was considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Admiral Financial Services agreed in 2019 to write off and remove all trace of the loan from 
Miss Rs credit file. Admiral Financial Services subsequently confirmed in writing that this 
had happened.
In September 2021, Miss Rs landlord put the property she lived in up for sale, with an 
asking price of £185,000. Miss R offered £180,000 and the agent handling the sale agreed 
some time for the offer to be considered by the landlord before placing the property on the 
open market. In this time, the agent replied to the offer saying her landlord required proof of 
funds for the purchase. 
Miss R had engaged a broker to find her a mortgage. Her mortgage application was declined 
and after checking her credit file, Miss R found Admiral Financial Services had not removed 
the details of the fraudulent loan as agreed. Miss R contacted the lender to get the 
information removed. It was removed within two days. But by the time Miss Rs mortgage 
application had been approved, the deadline given by her landlords agent had passed and 
the property was placed on the open market with viewings arranged.
Miss R was outbid by another party interested in purchasing the property. She increased her 
bid to the full asking price. Her offer was accepted and the sale proceeded. Miss R believes 
her mortgage application and offer of £180,000 for the property would have been accepted 
at the time of first asking had Admiral Financial Services corrected her credit file as agreed 
in 2019. So, she thinks it should compensate her for the £5,000 extra she needed to pay.
Admiral Financial Services accepted it made a mistake in not correcting Miss Rs credit file 
and believes it took prompt action to right matters once it had been brought to its attention. It 
also paid £300 compensation for the inconvenience it had caused. But it did not think it was 
ultimately responsible for the extra £5,000 Miss R paid to secure the purchase of her 
property. So, Miss R forwarded her complaint to us. 
Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of this services investigators. In summary, she 
was not persuaded that without the incorrect reporting, the vendor wouldve accepted the 
initial offer of £180,000, noting the asking price of £185,000. So, she could not say Miss R 
had suffered a financial loss. She also thought Admiral Financial Services had updated Miss 
Rs credit file, which reduced the impact of the error. She thought £300 adequately 
recognised the distress and inconvenience it caused.
As the investigator did not think her complaint should be upheld and Miss R did not agree, 
the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is 
more than likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Having done all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Admiral Financial Services accepted that it made a mistake in not correcting Miss Rs credit 
file in 2019  that much is not in dispute. Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter 
here, which is whether delay in correcting Miss Rs credit file is solely responsible for the 
£5,000 increase in the price she needed to pay for her property.
I can understand why Miss R considers the delay in Admiral Financial Services correcting 
her credit file as responsible for her paying an extra £5,000 to purchase her property. But 
this is predicated on the certainty of her former landlord accepting her offer of £180,000 and 
withdrawing the property from the market.
Miss R suggests that landlords prefer to agree a sale with their tenant if possible. She says it 
is common for vendors to accept less than full asking price, having set the asking price 
expecting purchasers to offer less. This may be so in some cases but in Miss Rs case, I find 
it at odds with her landlord placing the sale of the property in the hands of an estate agent. 
Afterall, the agents obligations to her landlord are likely to include valuing the property, 
negotiating with the potential buyer and trying to obtain the best possible price. And these 
services would come at a financial cost for the landlord. So, I dont think it is fair to say 
Miss Rs purchase of the property she tenanted at a discount to the asking price was by any 
means a foregone conclusion. Indeed, her landlords actions do not suggest a preference for 
selling to Miss R over putting the property for sale on the open market. 
I have not seen that at any point Miss Rs landlord was willing to accept her offer of 
£180,000, instead requesting for proof of funds within the existing agreed time limit. So, in 
the circumstances, I find it most likely that Miss Rs landlord was eager to place the property 
on the open market to achieve a sale (and best possible price). And for this reason, I cannot 
fairly say that Admiral Financial Services failing is solely responsible for her paying an extra 
£5,000 to purchase her property.
Altogether, while I am disappointed Admiral Financial Services hadnt corrected Miss Rs 
credit file as it said it had, I find the £300 compensation it paid for its failing in keeping with 
our published guidance for the impact caused by the errors. And so, I think this is fair and 
reasonable compensation for Admiral Financial Services error. I therefore dont require it to 
increase this.
I am sure my findings will be disappointing to Miss R, and they are not meant to disregard or 
ignore the clear frustration and upset caused to her, but I hope they are able to offer Miss R some reassurance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman