DRN-3456498
The complaint
Miss D and Mr H complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled their claim on their 
landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D and Mr H had a landlords insurance policy with AXA. In March 2021 their tenants 
moved out and they started renovations on the property. In April they found there had been a 
leak from the upstairs bathroom that had rotted the joists in the kitchen. Miss D and Mr H 
installed an acrow prop to ensure the propertys stability and made a claim on the insurance.
The claim was accepted but it took a long time to settle. To begin with AXA offered a cash 
settlement but later agreed to carry out the work. It initially carried out repairs but these 
needed to be re-done as they were of a poor standard. The claim was eventually resolved in 
October 2021 and the property was re-let the following month. 
During the claim Miss D and Mr H made a number of complaints. They said the claim had 
taken far longer than it should have to resolve and theyd lost rental income because of this. 
They were also unhappy with the level of updates and communication from AXA.
AXA offered a total of £900 compensation across three complaints. However it said as there 
were no tenants in situ when the claim was raised, and the property wasnt uninhabitable, 
loss of rent wouldnt be covered. 
Miss D and Mr H werent happy with this, they said the repair should have only taken a few 
weeks and if it had, theyd have been able to rent out the property much sooner. They said 
because of this theyd lost out on rental income they should have received and had to pay 
council tax during that time. They also said there were a number of items that should have 
been covered in the claim but werent, such as a broken fridge and the cost of the acrow 
prop. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
AXA had accepted the repair should only have taken a few weeks and therefore concluded 
Miss D and Mr H had suffered a financial loss by the delay that had been caused. She said 
AXA should pay loss of rent between May 2021 and October 2021. She also thought it 
should consider their claim for the fridge and pay costs for the rental of the acrow prop. 
Miss D and Mr H accepted our investigators outcome. However AXA didnt. It didnt agree 
loss of rent should be covered as the property wasnt uninhabitable and could have been 
marketed to tenants. And it said it hadnt had costs presented for the fridge or acrow prop 
but would consider these as part of the claim if they were presented.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loss of rent
There is no dispute that this claim has been dealt with poorly and delays have been caused. 
AXA has said that the repairs should only have taken a few weeks and has accepted its 
provided poor service and compensated Miss D and Mr H £900 for this. 
While I agree that the cover for loss of rent under the policy wouldnt apply, as the property 
wasnt uninhabitable, this service also considers the financial impact of a business errors, as 
well as policy cover. 
Here, it seems quite clear that Miss D and Mr H have lost out financially due to the length of 
time this claim has taken to resolve. Their intention was to re-let the property once 
renovations took place. And theyve demonstrated this by reletting at the start of November. 
Further, it took them under a month from the date they advertised the property until the date 
the next tenancy began. So Im persuaded that they would have been able to let it out in 
good time, if the repairs had been carried out as they should.
The claim was made at the start of April 2021. And if AXA had instructed contractors straight 
away, rather than declining to do so in the first instance, it is by its own admission that the 
work would have taken a few weeks to complete. So I think its reasonable to say this would 
have been completed within a month. Id then allow time for the property to be re-let. So I 
think its reasonable to say Miss D and Mr H would have been unable to rent the property for 
two months, had the claim been dealt with correctly. I therefore agree with our investigator 
that loss of rent should be paid for the five months from the end of May 2021 until the repairs 
were completed at the end of October 2021.
Miss D and Mr H have also had to pay council tax during that time, which they wouldnt have 
paid for if theyd been able to let the property. So I agree this is another loss they have 
suffered due to the delays and poor workmanship. I therefore agree AXA should also pay 
five months of council tax for the period. 
As Miss D and Mr H have been without these funds, AXA should also pay 8% simple interest 
on the amounts from when they were paid until it pays the settlement to make up for this 
time. 
I note Miss D and Mr H have reported that since AXA addressed this complaint, there have 
been further problems with the repairs. However I am only considering up until October 2021 
in this complaint, any further issues will be addressed as part of a separate complaint. 
Compensation
AXA has accepted it caused delays to the claim and that it provided poor service, including 
poor work by its contractors that meant repairs needed to be re-done. Ive calculated the 
delay to have been around five months during the period I am reviewing for this complaint. 
AXA has offered £900 compensation for this delay and poor service and I consider this to be 
fair in the circumstances. So I wont ask it to pay any further compensation.
Fridge and acrow prop
AXA has agreed to consider a claim for Miss D and Mr Hs fridge freezer in line with the 
policy terms, once the relevant information is received. As Ive not seen that this has been 
submitted previously, I think this is fair.Regarding the acrow prop, it was noted at the start of the claim that Miss D and Mr H had 
hired this in order to ensure the property remained stable. As part of a claim, insurers would 
expect their customers to try and mitigate any further losses. And Im satisfied this is what 
Miss D and Mr H were trying to do by fitting the prop. I therefore agree with our investigator 
that theyve done enough to show a valid claim and AXA should reimburse them for the 
rental of the prop, plus 8% interest for the time theyve been without the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss D and Mr Hs complaint and direct AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to:
Pay loss of rent at the rate the tenants who departed in March 2021 were paying, for 
the five months from May 2021 to October 2021.
Pay 8% simple interest on each amount from the date it would have been received 
until the date settlement is paid.
Reimburse Miss D and Mr H for council tax they were liable for during this period.
Pay 8% interest on any council tax payments made from the date they were paid until 
settlement is paid.
Reimburse Miss D and Mr H for the rental of the prop used to support the rotten joist 
on receipt of an invoice for the amount paid.
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was paid for until the date settlement 
is paid.
Consider a claim for Miss D and Mr Hs fridge freezer, on receipt of the relevant 
information provided by them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman