DRN-3566373
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was mis-sold a Select Added Value Account (AVA) in April 2006 
and a Premier Added Value Account (PRAVA) in January 2009 by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in doubt, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
(For clarity, I note that Miss S had a Lloyds Platinum account from February 2008 to January 
2009 and that Lloyds has upheld her complaint about it. As Lloyds redress is in line with 
what this service would award, I wont be looking at the sale of the Platinum account in this 
decision.)
Miss S says that she didnt need the SAVA and PRAVA and was specifically told the PRAVA 
would boost her options with the bank, but she subsequently believes it didnt. She also 
says the benefits of the PRAVA declined over the years, but the price didnt.
Lloyds says it recommended both accounts to Miss S based on her circumstances. And she 
chose to take them out based on the information it gave her which did not include any 
reference to a boost to her options with the bank.
The discussions about these two sales took place many years ago and I wasnt there, so I 
can only base my decision on the evidence available today and the testimony of the two 
parties.
As the SAVA and PRAVA were recommended to Miss S, Lloyds was required to ensure that 
the products were suitable for her and provide her enough information to make an informed 
decision.
The sale of the SAVA in April 2006.
Miss S had a fee free account with Lloyds for many years before taking out the SAVA, so 
she knew these were available. And fee free accounts were available from many other 
banks and financial institutions.
So, I think its more likely than not that Miss S knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
SAVA and she chose to do so, based on Lloyds recommendation.
The main benefits of the SAVA in 2006 included AA breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance, preferential overdraft rates, sentinel card production and several other offers.
 Lloyds has provided evidence that Miss S had a car and a mobile phone at the time and I 
can see nothing about her circumstances that would have prevented her from using the 
other benefits. 
So, I think its more likely than not that the SAVA was suitable for her. 
Lloyds has provided evidence that Miss S was sent a welcome pack and, as she went on to 
take out another packaged bank account later, I think its more likely than she received 
enough information about the SAVA. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the SAVA sale.
The sale of the PRAVA in January 2009.
By the time of the PRAVA sale in 2009, Miss S was an experienced user of packaged bank 
accounts, so I think its more likely than not she had a good understanding of the costs and 
benefits involved and she knew she had a choice whether to take it out.
There was clearly a discussion and Lloyds has provided evidence that it did a written 
assessment of her circumstances and compared it to the PAVA benefits on offer. Lloyds has 
also recorded that Miss S was interested in the identity theft protection which was only 
available with the PRAVA.
The main benefits of the PRAVA included full AA breakdown service, worldwide travel 
insurance (not requiring registration), home emergency service and a wide variety of other 
services.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Miss S had a car and a home; and she registered several 
mobile phones and enquired about the travel insurance.
So, I think its more likely than not the PRAVA was suitable for her and she had enough 
information about it.
Miss S says that Lloyds told her the PRAVA would increase her options. I think its likely 
that Lloyds told her the benefits were better with the PRAVA. But I dont have any evidence 
to be able to say that Lloyds misled her about her options.
I also think its entirely possible the benefits of the PRAVA became less useful to Miss S 
over the years. But she could have closed the account at any time, and it was for her to do 
so if she subsequently found the account less value for money.
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the 
PRAVA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman