DRN-3202534
The complaint
Mr M complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC acted irresponsibly by granting him a loan that 
was unaffordable.
 
What happened
In mid-2016 Mr M took out a loan for £2,000 with AvantCredit. The loan was to be repaid 
over 24 months with the repayments set at £118.87 a month. The APR was 45.4% and total 
amount to be repaid was £2,852.90. 
Mr M later complained that AvantCredit lent to him irresponsibly because the loan was 
unaffordable for him. AvantCredit said it had carried out a creditworthiness and affordability 
assessment and concluded the amount it agreed to lend was affordable and sustainable 
based on Mr Ms financial circumstances. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns, but he didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
checks AvantCredit performed were proportionate for the amount borrowed and its lending 
decision was fair.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2021 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required AvantCredit to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for AvantCredit to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him. 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Mr M was taking out a loan for £2,000 and was committing to repay it over a period of two 
years. AvantCredit was required to establish whether Mr M could do so sustainably. In other 
words, that he would be able to do so without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other 
commitments and without having to borrow further.
Before agreeing the loan, AvantCredit asked Mr M for information about his income and 
expenditure and it also reviewed his credit file. On his application, Mr M gave his net income 
as £2,000 and his total monthly outgoings as £1,250. These included £250 for rent, £30 for 
council tax, £100 for utilities and £500 for auto.
AvantCredit says it took Mr Ms existing credit commitments (from the credit file) into 
consideration when assessing whether the lending was affordable for him. But it hasnt 
provided us with its affordability assessment, so I cant see how much it allowed for these in 
its calculation.
The information AvantCredit gathered from Mr Ms credit file showed he was owing £4,766 
on fixed term accounts and was committed to repayments of £441 a month for these. But the 
credit file showed that Mr Ms total debt was far higher at £16,264. It shows he had two 
current accounts and one credit card account, and he was fully utilising his credit card limit. 
So AvantCredit should also have thought about Mr Ms commitment to repaying the 
remaining £11,498. I can see from bank statements Mr M has provided that he had an 
overdraft of £3,200. Hes also provided a more detailed credit report which shows his credit 
limit at the time of taking out the loan was £9,500. 
As part of its affordability assessment, AvantCredit should have considered how much Mr M 
needed to pay towards his credit card and overdraft in order to repay what he owed over a 
reasonable period of time. If it had done so, it ought reasonably to have realised that Mr M 
wasnt in a position to sustainably repay his existing debts, let alone the new loan. It follows 
that AvantCredit should have concluded that it wasnt appropriate to lend to him.
I set out what I intended to direct AvantCredit to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr M said he was happy with my provisional decision. AvantCredit said it did not have any 
further points to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change them.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So AvantCredit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr M 
made as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would 
have arisen to the date of settlement*
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman