DRN-4073918
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC handled a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75) in relation to dental treatment.
What happened
Mr K went for some dental work beginning around November 2021 at a dentist Ill refer to as 
A. Mr K needed to have a tooth extracted and agreed to a bridge being fitted once he 
healed. This later work was completed around April 2022.
Mr K paid A £326.60 in November 2021, £2,000 in March 2022 and £1,450 in April 2022. All 
the amounts were paid on Mr Ks credit card provided by Lloyds.
Unfortunately, Mr K was unhappy with the treatment. He says it was agreed with A that a 
four tooth bridge would be put in. But, he says A put a seven tooth bridge in. He says this 
meant he lost a gold tooth he had for a long time. He says the bridge was the wrong shade, 
was uncomfortable and makes it difficult to eat.
Mr K explained this to Lloyds and it looked into a claim under S75. It wrote to Mr K twice in 
May 2022 asking for various pieces of information. Mr K provided what he said was a report 
from another dentist, that Ill refer to as B, that he said showed the issues he was 
describing.
At the beginning of June 2022 Lloyds wrote to Mr K and explained it wasnt going to uphold 
the claim under S75. In summary, it said there was no evidence a seven tooth bridge wasnt 
required. It said the invoice from A showed seven payments - one for each tooth. It said Mr K 
had authorised the payment following the treatment. And it said as Mr K wasnt willing to 
contact A it wouldnt accept liability.
Mr K was unhappy with this and complained to Lloyds. It issued its final response later in 
June 2022. This said, in summary, that the information from B didnt confirm the bridge had 
been fitted incorrectly. And it said there was no evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Lloyds said it would refund the £75 charged by B, but it wasnt upholding 
the complaint.
Mr K remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. He reiterated the points 
he made to Lloyds. And he said during the consultation with B, he was told the bridge was 
bulky, the wrong shade and one side of his mouth met before the other when closing his jaw 
 making a noise. But he says B wasnt willing to put this in writing.
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. In summary, he said 
there wasnt any evidence of Mr K only agreeing to a four tooth bridge. He said he thought it 
was highly unlikely a dentist would remove more teeth than necessary. And he said the 
evidence from B didnt support Mr Ks version of events.
Mr K remained unhappy. He said, in summary, that Lloyds were lying about what evidence it 
asked for and told him he didnt have to return to A. He also said hed provided evidence 
which proved what happened.
As Mr K disagreed, the case was passed for an Ombudsmans decision. Following this, our 
investigator spoke to A who said it was discussed during a consultation with Mr K that the 
dentist would be doing a seven tooth bridge and this was agreed to.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 March 2023. My findings from this decision were as 
follows:
Mr K complains about a claim under S75 being declined. So, S75 is relevant to this 
complaint. This explains, under certain circumstances, that the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Firstly, I need to consider if Mr K had a valid claim under S75.
In order for there to be a valid claim, there needed to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement in place. Here, I can see the statement of account from A is in Mr Ks name.
Lloyds have shown the credit card transactions were in Mr Ks name to A. And, the dental 
work was performed on Mr K. So, Im satisfied a valid DCS agreement exists here.
Ive then considered the financial limits that apply to a valid S75 claim. Mr K needed to have 
purchased a single item with a cash price of over £100 but no more than £30,000. I can see 
from the statement of account that the total amount for the disputed work was £3,500. This 
is listed as seven items on the account, but in this case Im satisfied the bridge and fitting is 
the single item here. Either way, all of the individual items are £500. So, it follows this that 
Im satisfied the financial limits have been met for a valid claim.
So, Im satisfied Mr K had a valid claim under S75. What I now need to consider is whether 
there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation that took place. When considering this, 
its important to note that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implied a term into the 
contract between Mr K and A that the work would be carried out with reasonable care and 
skill. If this wasnt the case, I would consider this to have been a breach of contract.
That being said, there isnt a definition of what reasonable skill and care means here  so I 
need to consider the evidence and what wouldve been good industry practice.
The crux of this complaint seems to me to be whether it was agreed with Mr K that a four 
tooth bridge would be fitted, or a seven. I know how strongly Mr K feels about this. But here, 
I have directly opposing versions of events. Mr K says it was only discussed that a four tooth 
bridge would be fitted. A says that it was agreed in a consultation with Mr K beforehand that 
a seven tooth bridge would be fitted.
I should point out here that this case involves a complex medical procedure, about which I 
am not an expert. Working out what likely happened here can be very difficult.
Ive very carefully thought about this. And I appreciate there is a slight lack of evidence here.
I have considered that the statement of account for Mr K does show seven items for the 
work done  which would seem to correspond to the seven tooth bridge. I also take Lloyds 
point that Mr K didnt question this at the time and paid for the work  but I also have in mind 
Mr K says hed just undergone dental surgery with a lot of injections, so he might not have 
been in the frame of mind to question this. So, Ive not put much weight on this evidence.Ive also considered the information from B, which Ill discuss in more detail below, but this 
doesnt say a seven tooth bridge wasnt required nor agreed to.
I havent seen a contractual agreement between Mr K and A for the work. So, its difficult to 
say here what exactly the terms of the contract were. Its also worth pointing out here that, 
even if a four tooth bridge was agreed but then circumstances meant A needed to do a 
seven tooth bridge, this might not be a breach of contract nor show unreasonable skill and 
care. I say this as requirements can change once dental work begins. So I need to think 
about the manner in which the service was carried out, rather than the end result or if this 
was exactly what Mr K expected.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied I havent been supplied with enough expert 
evidence to persuade me on balance that A likely didnt act with reasonable care and skill.
Ive then gone on to consider the other issues Mr K raised. He says, in summary, that the 
bridge is uncomfortable, has left him with issues eating and is the wrong shade.
Again, there is something of a lack of evidence here. Mr K feels strongly the information from 
B proves what hes said, so Ive carefully considered this.
The email from B doesnt contain a lot of detail. As an overall comment, the email mostly 
details what Mr K told B  not Bs thoughts or opinions. In relation to the bridge it does say:
On the whole the bridge feels tight
The colour of the bridge is lighter than the adjacent teeth
But, I need to consider that above this it says:
You feel that food is collecting under the back part of the bridge and the teeth feel bulky 
(emphasis added by myself).
So, it isnt clear if the two statements above are Bs opinion, or just explaining what Mr K told 
it. But, whatever the case here, I dont think these two statements show enough to make me 
think the work wasnt done with reasonable skill and care. I say this as there is no other 
information from B here  for instance about the severity of the issues or commentary on As 
work.
I have also considered that B explains it discussed whitening Mr Ks teeth to match the 
shade of the bridge  which does imply some colour difference. But, again, no further 
information is given about the severity of the issue nor appearance.
Thinking about this, I dont think the information from B shows enough to persuade me that 
the work was carried out by A without reasonable care and skill. And while Ive very carefully 
thought about Mr Ks testimony here, this isnt enough to persuade me on balance that this 
was the case.
I appreciate Mr K says he was told by B directly that the bridge had several issues. But, Im 
satisfied this isnt reflected in what B wrote. Im not sure why B would say one thing to Mr K 
then write another. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Its important to note that even if there were more persuasive expert evidence that A had 
caused Mr K the ongoing issues he told us about, I would then need to consider whether it 
would be right for this service to make a final decision in light of the complexity of the 
potential issues and our inability to gather further evidence or cross examine witnesses.I should also explain that this service cant make awards for loss of amenity. I was sorry to 
read about the ongoing problems Mr K has had with the bridge and the discomfort this has 
caused. But, its unlikely our service would be able to make any award compensating him for 
these ongoing problems such as trouble eating.
Ive also thought about what Mr K said about his gold tooth being taken out. Again, there is a 
lack of evidence here  B gives no opinion on this and this isnt on the statement of account.
With nothing further to consider, I havent seen enough to make me think, on balance, that A 
acted without reasonable skill and care here nor breached the contract.
It follows all of this that Im satisfied on balance that neither a breach of contract nor 
misrepresentation has taken place. So, Im also satisfied that Lloyds didnt do anything 
wrong in its handling of Mr Ks claim under S75.
Finally, I have also thought about whether it wouldve been correct for Lloyds to also 
consider this issue under the chargeback scheme. But, either way, given everything Ive said 
above and the complexity of the issue, Im not persuaded this wouldve had a reasonable 
chance of success.
I want to reassure Mr K that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said in relation to 
this complaint. And Ive listened to the call between our investigator and his representative 
as was requested. But, this doesnt change my opinion.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence. 
Lloyds responded and said it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr Ks representative initially asked for more time to reply. She then responded and said 
what she had already provided showed what happened. And she said she had seen a 
similar situation being discussed on television where a consumer was advised to bring a 
case to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about all of the information and evidence again. And Ive considered 
what Mr K said in response to my provisional decision. I appreciate he says he saw a similar 
situation being discussed. But, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable in the very 
specific circumstances of Mr Ks case.
Having considered everything again, I still think this case should not be upheld. This is due 
to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
John BowerOmbudsman