DRN-3140762
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited (BRWM) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his DB scheme. So, he contacted BRWM and another firm (which Ill refer to as Firm A) 
for advice. Mr C met with BRWM and Firm A on 5 January 2017. Firm A completed a fact-
find and an assessment of Mr Cs risk appetite. The fact-find noted Mr C wanted to discuss 
transferring his DB scheme to a personal pension. As Firm A didnt hold the relevant 
permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his DB 
scheme, Mr C was told he would be referred to BRWM. 
BRWM contacted Mr C by phone on 19 January 2017 to gather some additional information 
and it completed its own fact-find. This showed Mr C was 54, married and was earning 
around £38,000 per year. It noted Mr C was mortgage-free and had savings of £50,000. 
Mr C was a member of his employers new money purchase pension. His risk profile was 
recorded as being cautious.
On 8 February 2017, BRWM advised Mr C to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a managed fund. The suitability report said the reasons 
for this recommendation were that Mr C wanted to break ties with the BSPS and have the 
funds under his control, which would remove the risk of his benefits entering the PPF. It also 
said the personal pension allowed him to access his pension flexibly from age 58 and it 
provided additional death benefits which could be passed on to his wife, which was 
important to him. Mr C accepted the advice and the transfer of his BSPS benefits went 
ahead. Mr C was referred back to Firm A for ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
Mr C, through his representative, complained in 2019 to BRWM about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. BRWM didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
In 2021 Mr C also made a complaint to Firm A. Mr C believed Firm A was also responsible 
for the advice to transfer out of the BSPS.
Firm A told Mr C it hadnt provided him with advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to BRWM.
Mr C referred his complaints about both businesses to this service. 
An investigator thought the advice BRWM gave Mr C was unsuitable. She thought Mr C 
would be worse off by transferring out because the critical yields required to match the DB 
pension were unachievable. She also wasnt persuaded that Mr C had any genuine 
objectives that necessitated him transferring away from the BSPS. The investigator said 
BRWM should compensate Mr C for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension 
and that compensation should be based on Mr C having opted to join the PPF. This was 
because she was satisfied Mr C intended to retire early, at age 58, and the early retirement 
factors were more favourable under the PPF.
BRWM disagreed. It said it was unreasonable to uphold the complaint based on the critical 
yield being unachievable because it had never suggested Mr C could achieve a higher 
income if he transferred out of the BSPS. BRWM said Mr C wanted to retire early and the 
penalties for doing so were too severe in the BSPS or the PPF. Ultimately BRWM was 
satisfied that Mr Cs objectives could only be met by transferring out of the BSPS. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I informed both parties of a change to the redress calculation, which takes account of the 
impact of the BSPS trustees buying an insurance policy as part of the process of the pension 
scheme exiting its PPF assessment and completing a buy-out.
Mr Cs representative said that although Mr C thought he was likely to retire early and had 
done so recently, he hadnt accessed his pension since transferring it and had no plans to do 
so. So, it thought compensation should be based on Mr C opting to join the BSPS2 instead 
with him taking his benefits at age 65. It added that BRWM should be asked to calculate the 
benefits available to Mr C through the BSPS2 and the PPF, and compensation should be 
based on whatever calculation produced the highest amount.
BRWM maintained that Mr C wouldnt have been better off by allowing his pension to move 
to the PPF because he wanted to retire early and he wanted to leave whatever remained of 
his pension to his family. But if it had to pay redress, it said it shouldnt be required to do a 
second calculation after the buy-out completed. It didnt think it was likely there would be any 
deficit in the PPF benefits that could be made up by the buy-out process, based on Mr C 
retiring at 58.
As both parties have responded, Im now providing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRWM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similarrates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The investment return required to match the DB pension at retirement at age 65 (critical
yield) was 13.9% per year if benefits were taken in full or 10.25% if TFC was taken
with a reduced pension. The equivalent critical yields to match the benefits available if the 
BSPS moved to the PPF were 8.77% and 8.34% at age 65.
Mr C told BRWM that he wanted to retire at age 58, as this coincided with his wifes 65th 
birthday. So BRWM provided the critical yields if Mr C was to retire at this age, which was
29.06% per year if benefits were taken in full or 20.64% if TFC was taken with a reduced 
pension. The same information ought to have been provided for the benefits available to 
Mr C at age 58 if the BSPS moved to the PPF, but it wasnt. But I expect the critical yields 
under the PPF at 58 would most likely have been higher than at age 65 because the fund 
required would need to be larger to pay the benefits for longer.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.8% per year for 3 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr Cs cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I think Mr C was likely 
to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement 
(even if the BSPS moved to the PPF), as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
But BRWM says that the critical yield is of limited relevance as it hadnt told Mr C he was 
going to be able to achieve a higher income. It said Mr Cs motivations for transferring out of 
the BSPS were not to achieve a higher income, so it doesnt understand why we have 
placed such weight on this aspect. BRWM also said that the regulator did not prescribe in 
COBS 19.1.6 what might be in a clients best interests, and it doesnt say that the transfer of 
benefits will be unsuitable if it cant be shown that the client will be better off.
But I still think the critical yield gives a good indication of the value of benefits Mr C was 
giving up and the regulator deems it an important part of the decision-making process. I also 
note that BRWM said themselves in the suitability report that if the decision to transfer was 
based solely on the critical yield it wouldnt have recommended the transfer.
Ive also considered the cash flow analysis BRWM conducted for Mr C. It showed the impact 
of Mr C taking income of £15,000 from age 58 and reducing this to £5,640 from age 67 when 
his state pension became payable. BRWM says it showed the level of income Mr C required 
was sustainable and would potentially leave a lump sum of over £500,000 for his wife and 
children by his anticipated life expectancy of 86. However, the analysis assumed 5% net 
returns after charges, which means Mr C needed to achieve returns of more than 7% to 
make up for ongoing adviser and pension plan charges (around 2% a year) and the initial 
adviser charge of around £10,200.
Also, as BRWM will know, past performance is no guarantee of future performance. So, 
I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time. As explained above, it was unlikely these levels of return could be achieved given Mr Cs attitude to risk, so I think his funds were at risk of running out a lot 
sooner.
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Cs benefits were reduced, he 
was very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a personal 
pension. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr C would be financially worse off in 
retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Cs best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
BRWM has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. I considered below whether such other 
reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
One of BRWMs main arguments in support of its recommendation to transfer was that Mr C 
wanted to retire early and the penalties for doing so under the BSPS were too severe  it 
would mean a reduction in his benefits of over 50%. 
BRWMs fact-find noted that Mr and Mrs Cs essential expenditure was around £1,000 per 
month. It said that 70% of this was likely to be covered by Mrs Cs state pension and her 
employers pension when she reached age 65, which was when Mr C also expected to 
retire. So, it noted that there was little risk of Mr and Mrs C not being able to meet their 
everyday expenditure. However, the cash flow forecast was based on Mr C withdrawing 
£15,000 per year  it isnt clear why this amount was required.
Under the BSPS, at age 58 Mr C wouldve been entitled to £14,750 per year, or £10,444 per 
year plus TFC of £69,630. Mr C didnt have any need for TFC, but it seems likely he 
wouldve taken it because it was a tax-efficient way of using his pension. But this is largely 
irrelevant. Mr C needed to decide whether to move with the BSPS to the PPF or transfer out.
The early retirement reductions were in fact lower in the PPF than in the BSPS. And as Mr C 
had concrete plans to retire at 58, I think the adviser ought to have provided details of the 
benefits available to Mr C at age 58 through the PPF. But as Ive said above, BRWM failed 
to provide this comparison. So, I dont know what Mr C wouldve been entitled to through the 
PPF, but Im satisfied it wouldve been higher than the pension available to him through the 
BSPS at age 58. That means Mr C wouldve been entitled to at least £10,444 per year, in 
addition to a lump sum of £69,630. This, together with Mrs Cs pension entitlements, meant 
they wouldve had annual income in excess of £20,000, as well as access to a lump sum of 
over £100,000. So, I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve comfortably been able to meet their 
essential income needs if Mr C allowed his pension to move with the scheme to the PPF and 
he retired early. They wouldve also had excess income and capital available to enjoy the 
early years of their retirement.
My key concern here is that this option wasnt discussed with Mr C. Mr C had stated quite 
clearly that he was mostly concerned with the security of his pension and that he was happy 
to accept a reduced pension to secure this. To my mind, it ought to have been clear to 
BRWM that Mr Cs objectives would be met by allowing his pension to move with scheme to 
the PPF.
BRWM also said Mr C wanted to take his pension income flexibly. But Mr C wasnt looking to 
take any TFC before he retired at 58 (if at all). So, its difficult to see what flexibility Mr C 
actually required at the time of the advice. BRWMs cash flow forecast was based on Mr C 
withdrawing £15,000 from age 58 to 67, before reducing it to £5,640. But I dont think that 
flexibility was necessarily required  it simply had the effect of ensuing more of his pension remained invested, meaning a higher sum could have been available to his family on death. 
If Mr C felt he had too much income once his state pension became payable at 67, he 
couldve saved it. Or he couldve invested it in a tax-efficient manner, such as through a 
trust, to ensure that a greater sum was available to pass on upon his death. Either way, Im 
not persuaded that Mr C had a genuine need for flexibility such that he shouldve been 
advised to give up a guaranteed, escalating pension in retirement.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
BRWM says that during the telephone call with Mr C, it had explained to him that the level of 
risk he was willing to take was lower than what it felt was necessary to make the transfer 
viable. But it said Mr C felt he would be taking more of a risk by remaining in the scheme and 
allowing his pension to enter the PPF with it. It said Mr C had spoken to a union 
representative who had explained how the PPF worked. BRWM says Mr C was ultimately 
happy to take the investment risk, and he understood he could be worse off as a result.
I accept that Mr C was concerned about his pension. Lots of his colleagues at the time were 
transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. He 
said this is why he wanted to move the pension into his control.
So its likely that Mr C was leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was 
BRWMs obligation to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interest. Mr C was particularly concerned about the BSPS moving to the PPF. But from what 
Ive seen, BRWM didnt provide Mr C with an objective picture about the PPF and what this 
might mean for him specifically. And in any event, I think Mr Cs concerns were with his 
employer generally. And I dont think BRWM explained that his scheme benefits entering the 
PPF removed his pension from his employers control. It seems to me that an explanation 
along those lines wouldve gone some way to reassuring Mr C about his concerns.
Furthermore, Mr C was clearly interested in retiring early and early retirement reductions 
were in fact lower in the PPF than in the BSPS  but this wasnt shared with Mr C. And as 
Ive said above, I think Mr C wouldve comfortably been able to meet his income needs 
through the PPF.
Overall, I dont think BRWM did much to alleviate Mr Cs concerns and fears about the PPF. 
Instead, it appears to have used these concerns to justify the transfer.
Death benefits
According to the fact-find, Mr C said he wanted to be able to leave any remaining pension 
funds to his wife and children.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. So telling Mr C he could leave a large
sum to his family when he died would have sounded a lot more attractive than the DB
scheme where his wife would receive a reduced pension. While Mr C might have thought it 
was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think BRWM really explored to what 
extent Mr C was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits with the BSPS were underplayed. Mr Cs wife would 
have received a guaranteed spouses pension for life which would have been valuable if 
Mr C predeceased her. And if he wanted to leave some of his pension to his family, he could have made provisions for this with his money purchase pension he had with his employer if 
he wanted to. Or, as Ive said above, he couldve or reinvested or saved any excess pension 
income for the benefit of his children if he genuinely wanted to leave them a legacy. He also 
couldve taken out insurance. In comparison, if Mr C lived a long life, there might not have 
been a large or any sum to leave to beneficiaries from his personal pension, particularly if 
the growth achieved was less than expected.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Mr C was in good health and so more focus should have been on ensuring Mr C would 
receive his required income over a long period of time.
Summary
I accept that Mr C was attracted by the idea of transferring. And I dont doubt that flexibility, 
control and higher death benefits would have sounded like attractive features. But BRWM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interest.
I think Mr C could have met his objectives remaining with the BSPS and moving with it to the 
PPF. Im satisfied he could have covered his income needs at age 58 through the PPF and 
he would have been entitled to a guaranteed and secure income which continuously 
increased with inflation.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr C was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr C. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances, explained what he was giving 
up in the BSPS and reassured him that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he 
thought. For the reasons given above, I think this advice should have been to remain in the 
BSPS.
On balance I think Mr C would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice. 
Mr C was an inexperienced investor and he was most concerned about the security of his 
pension. This pension made up a significant part of his retirement provision, and I dont think 
he wouldve wanted to take any unnecessary risk with it  he also had no need to access his 
pension at the time. So, if BRWM had provided him with clear advice against transferring out 
of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
BRWM may dispute this because Mr C was given the option to delay his transfer and wait for 
a new revised transfer value following a review of the calculations used previously by the 
trustees. However, Mr C rejected this option and confirmed he wanted to proceed with
the original transfer. But I dont think that means Mr C would have acted against any advice 
he was given not to transfer out. I say this because I think Mr Cs insistence on proceeding 
was because of his fear that the transfer value would be lower. But at this point, BRWM had 
already provided him with a positive recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS, so Im not 
surprised that he was keen to secure the value of his pension rather than risk the sum 
reducing. But if Mr C had been told that despite the transfer value offered, transferring out 
would not have been in his best interests, then I dont think this situation would have arisen.
If Mr C had stayed in the BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the 
PPF or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. Ive carefully considered what Mr C likely 
would have done and on balance I think he would have opted to move to the PPF. I say this because at the time Mr C wanted to retire early, at age 58. The BSPS2 wouldnt have 
decreased Mr Cs initial entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of his benefits would 
have had potentially higher increases in BSPS2. However, early retirement factors in the 
PPF were lower and commutation factors for TFC entitlement were more favourable under 
the PPF. So overall, its likely Mr Cs income and TFC entitlement would have been higher in 
the PPF. 
Under the BSPS2, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Cs pension at the date 
of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the 
spouses pension would likely be lower in the PPF. However, I think on balance Mr Cs own 
benefits and higher TFC, which he and his wife could benefit from earlier in retirement, 
would have been more important to him.
So, I think BRWM should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's 
pension review methodology. And its the benefits offered by the PPF which should be used 
for comparison purposes.
Mr Cs representative has said although Mr C wanted to retire at age 58 and is retired now, 
he hasnt touched his pension yet and has no intention to access it for the foreseeable 
future. So, it says compensation should be based on Mr C having joined the BSPS2 instead. 
Mr Cs representative also says that BRWM should be required to calculate Mr Cs 
entitlement under the PPF and his entitlement through the BSPS2 and pay him whatever is 
higher. It says this reflects the analysis it should have done at the time of the advice and 
would demonstrate what was in his best interest.
But in making this decision, Ive had to decide what wouldve been suitable advice for Mr C 
at the time, based on his needs. And as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Mr C 
shouldve been advised to allow his pension to move with the scheme to the PPF because 
he had clear plans to retire early, despite him not having taken any benefits yet. So, the 
redress calculation should be based on the benefits available to Mr C under the PPF.
BRWM says that it shouldnt be required to do a second calculation after the buy-out is 
completed because compensation should be based on Mr C retiring and accessing his 
benefits at age 58. It doesnt think that there would be any uplift based on this.
Ive considered this carefully, but I think it would be fair for any such increases, as a result of 
the buy-out completing, are taken into account when compensating Mr C. I say this because 
I have to be led by what has actually happened here. Although Mr C has retired early, he 
hasnt accessed his pension since retiring  this is largely because his wifes pension meets 
the majority of their expenses and they have significant savings. If Mr C had been suitably 
advised and allowed his pension to move with the scheme to the PPF, he wouldve had the 
same options  he couldve retired and deferred taking his pension until such time it was 
needed. And I think on balance thats what most likely wouldve happened.
Mr C has no plans to access his pension for the foreseeable future, and based on what I 
know, he has no need to. As I dont know when Mr C is likely to access his pension, the 
usual assumptions in the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9 should be used. And as Mr Cs 
pension wouldnt have been in payment at the time the buy-out is completed, I think he may 
have been entitled to an increase in benefits as a result of the buy-out if he had been in the 
PPF. For this reason, I think its fair that BRWM does a second calculation as Ive set out 
below.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for BRWM to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
remained a member of the BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF. So 
calculations should be undertaken on this assumption.
BRWM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. For 
clarity, although Mr C is retired, he has not taken any of his benefits and he has no plans to 
do so at present. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr C's acceptance of the decision.
BRWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr C's SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date 
BRWM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRWM 
to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
 
Additional compensation
 
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late summer 2022. 
 
It's been announced that:
 
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
 
The amounts of possible increases are yet unknown. The scheme expects to be able to 
have information on this by late summer 2022.  Mr C would possibly have been entitled to an 
increase in benefits after the buy-out if he had been in the PPF. So, I think its fair any such 
increases are taken into account when compensating Mr C.
I dont think its reasonable for BRWM to delay the compensation calculation in its entirety 
until the buy-out is completed. Although it is expected to happen in late summer 2022, Im 
conscious that this could be delayed further due to its complexity. To give some certainty to 
the parties, I think its fair BRWM calculates and pays Mr C compensation now as set out 
above comparing his existing benefits with the PPF. Once the buy-out is completed and 
more detailed information is available how exactly PPF benefits will increase, BRWM should 
do a second calculation in line with the latest FCA guidance on DB transfer redress 
applicable at the time. They should base their calculations on the benefits Mr C would have 
been entitled to after the buy-out. 
This calculation should be done as soon as possible after the new buy-out benefits are 
known. BRWM should keep up to date with developments on this matter, for example any 
information published on www.oldbritishsteelpension.co.uk. Equally, if Mr C becomes 
aware further information is available, he should let BRWM know. If the second calculation 
results in a higher redress amount than the first calculation, BRWM must pay Mr C the 
difference. If the second calculation results in the same or a lower redress amount than the 
first calculation, no further action should be taken.
The compensation amount of the second calculation must where possible be paid to 
Mr C within 90 days of the date a public announcement is made that the buy-out has 
completed. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the announcement to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes BRWM to pay Mr C.
For the upset caused by the unsuitable advice, BRWM should also pay Mr C £400.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Bailey 
Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that
Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final
decision.
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited should provide details of its calculations to 
Mr C and his representative in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman