DRN-3588266
The complaint
Mr C has complained that ReAssure Limited were slow in confirming receipt of a pension 
contribution he paid into his plan and in sending him a P60 for the 2020/1 tax year. Mr C has 
also complained that ReAssure Limited sent correspondence to him that was intended for 
another customer and that ReAssure didnt send him his quarterly statement in April 2021.
What happened
Mr C holds a pension plan with ReAssure. Mr C holds an offline version of the ReAssure 
pension plan. By holding the offline plan Mr C receives paper copies of his pension 
statements.  
Towards the end of March 2021 Mr C paid a single pension contribution into his ReAssure 
plan. Mr C says that he paid the pension contribution at that time so that it would be credited 
to his pension plan before the close of the 2020/21 tax year.
Mr C did not receive confirmation from ReAssure that his pension contribution had been 
received and credited to his pension plan until late May 2021.
Mr C has said that he was due to receive a quarterly pension statement in April 2021. 
However, this statement was issued as an annual and not a quarterly statement. ReAssure 
did not send the April 2021 annual statement to Mr C until June 2021.
Mr C had been expecting to receive a copy of his 2020/1 tax year P60 from ReAssure, but 
by the end of April 2021 this hadnt been received.
Mr C contacted ReAssure by telephone at the end of April to chase his P60, to ask for his 
April quarterly statement and to ask for confirmation that ReAssure had received his pension 
contribution paid in March 2021. 
Mr C wrote to ReAssure in mid-May to chase these three matters again. Mr C was told that 
he would receive his P60 before the end of May 2021, however Mr C still didnt receive this. 
Mr C then wrote to ReAssure again towards the end of June 2021 to chase his P60 and his 
April quarterly statement. By then he had received confirmation that ReAssure had received 
his March 2021 pension contribution.
ReAssure wrote to Mr C in mid-July 2021 and apologised for the delay there had been in   
Mr C receiving his P60 and said that a copy of this was being sent to Mr C by first class post. 
Mr C subsequently confirmed that he received his P60.
ReAssure also apologised for the delay in sending confirmation that Mr Cs March 2021 
pension contribution had been received and applied to his policy. 
ReAssure also explained in their letter that they no longer issue a quarterly statement and 
the annual statement at the same time in April each year. Rather than issue two statements 
at the same time, ReAssure said that they now only issue an annual statement in April each 
year.
ReAssure went on to say: I would like to offer you £100 for the trouble and upset this matter 
has caused and have arranged this to be transferred to your bank account in the next 5 
working days.
With ReAssures letter to Mr C of mid-July 2021 they enclosed in error correspondence 
belonging to another ReAssure customer. 
Mr C rejected ReAssures response to his complaint. He decided to refer his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator in the Financial Ombudsman Service has reviewed Mr Cs complaint. They 
thought that ReAssure had taken sufficient steps to put thinks right for Mr C and that their 
offer of £100 was fair and reasonable for the upset theyd caused. 
Mr C did not agree with the investigators conclusion. Mr C has said that he is concerned 
that his own correspondence has been sent to another ReAssure customer. He also thinks 
that he has suffered a financial loss as a result of ReAssure not acknowledging receipt of his 
March 2021 pension contribution until late May 2021. 
Mr C asked for his complaint against ReAssure to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will consider each element of Mr Cs complaint:
Mr Cs single pension contribution.
Mr C paid a single pension contribution into his ReAssure plan towards the end of March 
2021. However, ReAssure did not sent confirmation that they had added this contribution to 
Mr Cs policy until the second half of May 2021. ReAssure have said that their normal 
turnaround time to add a single contribution to a pension plan is 10 to 15 working days, so 
clearly it took them longer than their normal turnaround time in this instance.
ReAssure have said that when they completed their work on investing the single contribution 
to Mr Cs plan, they used fund prices that were applying on the date that they received the 
contribution in March 2021. 
This meant that although ReAssure didnt finalise the administration of this contribution until 
May 2021, Mr Cs contribution was still invested at March 2021 fund prices. Ive seen screen 
shots sent by ReAssure which confirm that Mr Cs pension contribution was invested at the March 2021 fund prices. 
Therefore, whilst I think that Mr C did suffer the inconvenience of having to wait until May 
2021 before he received any confirmation from ReAssure, I dont think that he suffered any 
financial loss as a result of ReAssures delays.
Mr Cs P60.
ReAssure told Mr C that hed receive his 2020/1 tax year P60 before the end of May 2021. 
However, Mr C has said that he didnt receive his P60 by then and had to chase ReAssure in 
order to get a copy of his P60 sent.
ReAssure have said that they use a third-party mailing house to send out P60s to their 
customers. They have also said that Mr Cs details were included in the file that was sent to 
the mailing house for the production of 2020/21 tax year P60s. Ive therefore not seen any 
evidence from ReAssure which can explain why Mr C didnt receive his P60 on time. 
Mr C did receive his P60 from ReAssure having chased them for it. This was sent to Mr C by 
first class post in mid-July 2021. Mr C has confirmed that he received the P60 two days after 
it was posted by ReAssure. 
I therefore think that Mr C did suffer the inconvenience of having to wait longer than he 
should have to receive his P60, and from having to chase ReAssure for a copy. I have 
however not seen any evidence to show that Mr C suffered any financial loss as a result of 
him not receiving his P60 until mid-July 2021. 
Quarterly Statements.
Mr C has said that he was expecting a quarterly statement for his pension plan in April 2021. 
Mr C subsequently received an annual statement in June 2021. ReAssure have explained 
that they dont send out both a quarterly statement and an end of tax year statement at the 
same time in April each year. Instead, they only send out the end of tax year statement for 
that month. I think thats a reasonable thing for ReAssure to do.
Mr C contacted ReAssure to ask for his April 2021 quarterly statement at the end of April 
2021, and again in mid-May and towards the end of June 2021. However, Mr C wasnt told 
until July 2021 that ReAssure were no longer issuing April quarterly statements. 
Mr C has said that he pays an extra annual fee to ReAssure in order to receive paper copies 
of his statements. I have seen a copy of the ReAssure document titled Key Features of the 
Retirement Account.  The document is dated December 2020.
On page 12 of this document, in the section titled Charges the following is stated:
What are the charges?
 The standard version of the Retirement Account has a lower charging structure than the 
offline version. This is because in the future this version of the account will be serviced 
online and we want to pass on the savings that online servicing brings to our customers.
 Theres an ongoing charge of 0.65% of the value of the funds each year for the standard 
version, and 0.75% of the value of the funds each year for the offline version. These are 
known as Annual Management Charges (AMCs).  
ReAssure have said that Mr C holds the offline version of the Retirement Account. I therefore think that Mr C pays 0.1% a year more than the online charges in order to receive 
paper copies of valuations. 
Mr C has been receiving paper statements from ReAssure. However, I dont think that it was 
reasonable for ReAssure to have taken as long as they did to tell Mr C that they no longer 
produce both quarterly and annual statements in April each year. 
Wrong correspondence sent to Mr C.
In July 2021 Mr C received correspondence from ReAssure that was meant to a different 
customer. ReAssure asked that Mr C either destroyed or returned this correspondence. 
ReAssure also said that they contacted the customer concerned to make them aware of 
what had happened and that they would deal with this matter separately.
Mr C has said that this incident has made him concerned that ReAssure might have sent his 
own correspondence to another customer. I have however not seen any evidence to show 
that this has happened. 
Mr C has said that he thinks that ReAssure should apologise to him for sending him another 
customers correspondence and that they should write to him once they have completed 
their investigations. 
ReAssure have said that they contacted the customer concerned and dealt with this matter 
in line with their obligations, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
As the correspondence sent to Mr C was for another customer and didnt involve any of Mr 
Cs personal information, then I dont think its reasonable for ReAssure to write to Mr C with 
the outcome of their investigation.  
Therefore, whilst I can understand Mr Cs concern at having received another customers 
correspondence, I dont think that ReAssure need to do anything else with regards to Mr C in 
relation to this matter.
Putting things right
ReAssure have apologised to Mr C for the delay in sending him his P60 and for sending the 
confirmation for the pension contribution made in March 2021. Mr C has received his P60.
ReAssure have explained to Mr C that they do not issue both a quarterly statement and an 
end of tax year statement in April each year, instead they just send out the end of tax year 
statement. Mr C has received his annual statement for the financial year 2020/1.
ReAssure have said that they have contacted the customer whose correspondence was 
incorrectly sent to Mr C and have dealt with that matter with them. 
I think that Mr C did suffer inconvenience through the delay in sending his P60 and 
confirmation of his March 2021 pension contribution and for having to chase these matters 
with ReAssure. I also think that Mr C should have been told about the April quarterly 
statements no longer being issued sooner than he was. 
However, I have not seen any evidence to show that Mr C suffered any financial loss as a 
result of these delays. Nor have I seen any evidence to show that any correspondence 
meant for Mr C has been sent to another ReAssure customer.
I therefore think that the apology from ReAssure together with the payment of £100 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C are fair and reasonable in putting things right for Mr C. 
ReAssure have said that they have already paid £100 to Mr C.
My final decision
I think that the apology and compensation already sent to Mr C by ReAssure Limited are 
reasonable and therefore no further action from ReAssure Limited is needed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman