The complaint
This is a complaint that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold Miss M and Miss M payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 
1989. Miss M and Miss M have also mentioned other issues about their mortgage and 
related insurance, but this decision is only about the PPI they took out.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. Miss M and Miss M disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case 
I reached a different view to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision and 
invited comments and further evidence. In the provisional decision I said the following
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
The adjudicator felt the complaint should not be upheld. But based on what Ive read 
and been told so far, Ive currently reached a different view.
There arent any notes available of what was discussed, so I cant know what was said 
about PPI. But Miss M and Miss M say the B&B adviser told them that the PPI was 
needed as part of their mortgage package. They say they queried whether this was 
necessary, as they told the adviser they had secure public sector jobs with good 
sickness pay; and they had further enhanced their sick pay through membership of a 
mutual society. They say that their personal circumstances, which made their 
mortgage application unusual, were mentioned by the adviser as relevant to why PPI 
was needed. 
I am conscious that this all happened over 30 years ago, and many people 
remembering back that far might get the details of what happened wrong; or they 
might confuse one incident with another. But Miss M and Miss M have given quite a lot 
of detail about their meeting with the B&B adviser, including his name. I think its likely 
that what theyve told us is broadly right, at least in that they were led to believe they 
had to take out PPI. 
DRN-1952466And Ive looked at the mortgage application form they signed. To my mind, it isnt as 
clear as it ideally should have been, that they had a choice about taking the PPI. The 
section is headed with SELECT PAYMENT PROTECTION INSURANCE, which 
looks like an instruction; and, further, it says, Please tick the box to indicate the type 
of cover required Accident & Redundancy [or]  Accident & Sickness only. (Miss 
and Miss Ms form has a tick in the second box.)
There is a box in the bottom corner of the PPI section which says, If cover is NOT 
required please indicate with a cross. I think that is probably just enough for me to say 
the form does present the PPI as optional. But that box isnt prominent (and it 
contrasts with the other parts of the mortgage application form where the customer 
has to actively write in yes and no in answer to questions). So, in the circumstances 
of this particular case, I dont think it would have been sufficient to correct Miss M and 
Miss Ms impression that one or other version of PPI was an integral part of the 
mortgage package being offered. Ive also taken into account that theyve told us they 
were first time buyers, without prior experience of arranging a mortgage and unfamiliar 
with the related paperwork. 
So, taking everything together, my current view is that on this occasion, even if 
inadvertently, the B&B adviser probably did lead Miss M and Miss M to believe they 
had to take the PPI to get their mortgage. I say this based on:
 The testimony of Miss M and Miss M about the sales meeting, which has 
been clear and consistent.
 Their assertion that they believed they had little need of the PPI, in view of 
their work security and enhanced sickness benefits (they have also 
mentioned savings).
 The fact that, in my view, the application form could easily have been read by 
them as consistent with their understanding that they didnt really have a 
genuine choice about taking PPI; and that refusing it would have affected 
their mortgage application.
So on balance, my current view is that B&B mis-sold the PPI to Miss M and Miss M.
Miss M and Miss M said they had nothing further to add. B&B said they strongly disagreed 
with my proposed decision. They said:
This was not an advised sale and it was up to [Miss M and Miss M] to read through the 
mortgage application and to fill this in. I would argue that the PPI section was made 
clear, both [Miss M and Miss M] wanted to take out the PPI policy as they have filled in 
the monthly cover required, so they had obviously thought about this. If they had not 
wanted to take out this cover it does say 'If cover is NOT required please indicate with 
a cross in the box' and this was not filled in. Bradford & Bingley have given the option 
on the PPI section to reject the PPI, and I would argue that it does not matter where 
this is on this section as long as we have offered this option. Your service have said 
that it does show that the PPI was optional, but that the box isn't prominent and this is 
why you want to uphold this complaint. Bradford & Bingley disagree and feel we have 
given the option to decline the PPI and do not agree with your decision to uphold this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've considered the points B&B have made. But they are mainly expressions of disagreement 
with how I have weighed the evidence, rather than new evidence, or points that call into 
doubt the logic of my decision. I think my provisional decision addresses these. 
I don't think Miss M and Miss M's filling in, of the monthly cover required, dislodges their 
claim that they were led to believe that PPI was an integral part of the mortgage. It seems 
clear that the level of benefit "selected" was the equivalent of the monthly mortgage payment 
 so this wasn't really an independent choice that suggested they knew they could take the 
mortgage without the PPI.
Putting things right
Bradford & Bingley Plc should put Miss M and Miss M in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
B&B should:
Pay Miss M and Miss M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from
then on.
If Miss M and Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, B&B can
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires B&B to take off tax from this interest. B&B must 
give Miss M and Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. I require Bradford & Bingley Plc to pay Miss M and Miss M 
redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Miss 
M to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman