DRN-3722396
The complaint
Mr D and Ms R complain that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC unfairly declined their
claim on their Structural Warranty Policy.
What happened
Mr D and Ms R bought a property which had been converted into separate dwellings. The
property came with a 10-year insurance policy provided by Amtrust which covers it for
defects in workmanship to the structure of the building in certain circumstances.
The ground floor of Mr D and Ms Rs property flooded and so they claimed on their policy. It
was determined that the cause of the flood was due to the ground floor not being tanked
correctly. Amtrust reviewed the claim and turned it down by relying on an exclusion which
says it wont be liable for defects in the design or workmanship to the property before it
was converted.
Mr D and Ms R didnt think this was fair. They said part of the conversion involved lowering
the ground floor by around 500-600mm. Because of this they didnt think it was fair to rely on
an exclusion which said it hadnt been properly constructed previously as the ground floor
was now lower than originally designed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 November 2022 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr D and Ms Rs policy says in Section 4 that Amtrust will
indemnify Mr D and Ms R against all claims discovered and notified to them in respect of:
The necessary and reasonable costs incurred in repairing, replacing or
rectifying any part of the Waterproof Envelope within the Housing Unit
as a result of ingress of water caused by a defect in the design,
workmanship, materials or components or the waterproofing elements of
the Housing Unit.
The definition of Housing Unit refers to Mr D and Ms Rs property as listed on the certificate
of insurance and Waterproof Envelope is defined as:
Waterproof envelope shall mean the ground floors, external walls, roofs,
skylights, windows, doors, of a Housing Unit but excluding those parts
below ground floor slab level
Amtrust had an assessment done on Mr D and Ms Rs property which says:
We did remove another section of board to expose what in our opinion
appears to be the visqueen type of floor membrane which has been
lapped up the wall to act as a barrier. We believe this is not sufficient to
stop damp penetration from the walls or external elements. The current
system in place is a metal framing and standard plasterboard finish.
We could find no evidence that the walls had had any form of tanking
membrane system installed.
The report goes onto recommend the following work to rectify the issue:
We would recommend that the current plasterboard walls are removed
from the property along with the metal framing to allow a full tanking
membrane to be installed to the external walls. Works to be finished with
the metal frame, insulation, and plasterboard finish.
Ive also noted another report on a trace and access and provides a quote to repair the 
works says:
We would consider this to be at best a grade 1 or A type of DPC works.
which is the lowest method of abating water ingress. We would
recommend that this should be of a grade 3 design to give a full Tanking
System to ensure integrity of building.
From reading the reports it seems clear that the conversion has not been built to the 
required standard to prevent water getting in. Im therefore satisfied there was a defect in the 
design, workmanship, materials or components of the waterproofing elements of the 
property when the conversion was completed.
The exclusion Amtrust has relied upon to turn down the claim says it will not be liable for:
Loss or damage due to or arising out of any defect in the design,
workmanship, materials or components of the Housing Unit that was
installed or constructed prior to the conversion, refurbishment or
renovation works that are the subject of this insurance.
Ive therefore considered whether Amtrust has applied this exclusion in a fair and reasonable
way, and Im not persuaded it has. I say this because its clear Amtrust doesnt want to be
responsible for previous design or workmanship defects. However, as the ground floor was
lowered by 500-600mm during the conversion Im not persuaded this issue is caused by a
previous design or workmanship defect. This is because when the property was originally
built the ground floor was higher, and therefore less likely to flood. It therefore follows that
this issue is most likely caused by the floor being lowered and the property not having a
sufficient tanking membrane installed during the conversion.
As the property doesnt appear to have needed a tanking membrane before it was 
converted, and the floor lowered in the conversion, Im satisfied this is a claim which is 
covered by the policy. I say this because there is a defect to the waterproofing elements of 
the property, and this doesnt appear to be the result of defect or design to the building 
before it was converted.
Im not satisfied Amtrust has shown its fair and reasonable to turn down this claim and
therefore to put things right Amtrust needs to pay this claim subject to any policy limits. Ive
also noticed that due to the flooding Mr D and Ms R have had to live in a property which has
suffered flood damage. From the photos I can see there are parts of the floor missing and
holes have needed to be cut into the walls to inspect it and identify the issue. While its
reasonable to expect some distress and inconvenience when a claim arises. Amtrust has
caused additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience by declining the claim which
meant Mr D and Ms R have needed to live with this damage for longer along with their
daughter. Theyve also explained they have wanted to move to help with their daughters
education and been unable to do so because of this issue. Therefore, Amtrust should pay
them £1,500 to compensate them for this unnecessary distress and inconvenience.Amtrust responded and didnt accept my provisional decision. It repeated the exclusion Ive 
quoted above and said that Mr D and Ms R hadnt identified a defect to the new works 
completed. Because of this it said it wasnt fair to be penalised for damp issues to the 
existing works. 
Mr D and Ms R responded and accepted my provisional decision. They questioned about 
how prescriptive my decision would be regarding the works needed to their property to 
ensure it was returned to the condition it was before the floods, they also asked about their 
neighbours property, as that was built at the same time. Mr D and Ms R also said theyd 
incurred costs of around £500 when they had to dry the property out following the second 
flood and that their home insurance policies were now higher due to the floods theyd had. 
I asked our investigator to write to Amtrust and let them know that I was still inclined to 
uphold that complaint and that I would also be telling them to pay Mr D and Ms R £463.92 to 
cover what theyd spent drying out their property. I said Amtrust would also need to add 8% 
simple interest per year to this amount to compensate Mr D and Ms R for not having the 
money. I asked for any further comments by 9 December 2022, Amtrust didnt respond by 
the required date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Amtrusts comments, but they havent persuaded me to change my decision. I 
say this because Im satisfied its most likely there is a defect to the conversion for the 
reasons stated above and in my provisional decision. Im also not satisfied that Amtrust has 
shown its most likely there was a pre-existing fault with the property which has caused the 
flooding. Therefore, Im not persuaded Amtrust is acting fairly and reasonably by declining 
this claim. 
In response to Mr D and Ms Rs comments, Ive reviewed them and while I asked our 
Investigator to let Amtrust know I thought it was fair and reasonable to cover the drying out 
cost, upon reflection Im not going to make a finding on that in this decision. I say that 
because the claim for the costs incurred for drying out the property would need to be 
considered as part of the claim. In this decision Im only considering whether Amtrust have 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. As Im now telling Amtrust to pay the 
claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions, Amtrust would need to assess the 
drying out costs as part of the claim rather than being part of this complaint. 
For the other points Mr D and Ms R raised I also wont be telling Amtrust to do any more in 
this decision than I set out in my provisional decision. This is because regarding their 
neighbours property, I can only consider Mr D and Ms Rs complaint about Amtrusts actions 
in relation to their claim and not anything it might have done in relation to their neighbours 
property. I would also like to clarify that in this complaint Ive only looked at whether Amtrust 
has acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. As Im not satisfied, that it has Im 
directing it to pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. Once this 
has been done, if Mr D and Ms R arent happy with how much Amtrust pays, or the work 
completed, that would need to be raised separately. This is the same for the increase in 
home insurance premiums Mr D and Ms R said they have had to pay due to the floods. 
While I do empathise with them having to pay increased home insurance costs, I cant see 
that it is something the policy covers. However once Amtrust has paid the claim, if it's 
something Mr D and Ms R think should be covered, they would need to raise that with 
Amtrust first.  My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust International Underwriters DAC to:
1. pay Mr D and Ms Rs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions, subject to 
any policy limits 
2. pay them £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman