DRN-4076615
The complaint
Ms B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on a 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle with a diesel 
engine and made in about 2008.
Ms B had the SUV insured on a comprehensive policy with Advantage for the year from late 
April 2021. She was the policyholder. The policy also covered another family member as a 
named driver.
Unfortunately, in mid- April 2022, Ms B reported to Advantage that a third party had 
damaged the vehicle. 
The policy renewed for a year from late April 2022.
Advantage said the vehicle was a total loss and its pre-accident value had been £5,019.00. 
Ms B asked about keeping the damaged car. 
In mid-May 2022, Advantage reviewed the valuation and increased it to £5,060.00.
Ms B complained to Advantage that it was still under-valuing the vehicle. By a final response 
dated 18 May 2022, Advantage turned down the complaint.
On 20 May 2022, Advantage paid Ms B £5,060.00. Advantage waived the policy excess. 
Ms B kept the damaged SUV.
On about 20 June 2022, Advantage cancelled the policy with effect from 18 June 2022. Ms B 
called to complain, and Advantage reinstated the policy on 20 June 2022.
On about 24 June 2022, Advantage emailed Ms B asking her to pay £1,720.40 to keep the 
damaged vehicle. Ms B brought her complaint to us in late June 2022. 
By a second final response dated 9 August 2022, Advantage said the retention cost was 
non-negotiable. But it said it was sending £130.00 as an apology.
Ms B paid Advantage £1,720.40.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Advantage had acted fairly.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Advantage put her and the named driver at great risk by allowing them to be unaware 
that the insurance had expired and put them in the position of driving without 
insurance.
Advantage should accept responsibility for their poor conduct in this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pre-accident market value of the SUV
We expect an insurer to value a used vehicle by reference to the retail figures in certain 
trade guides. We find those guides persuasive as they are based on extensive research of 
likely selling prices.
We usually find advertisements less persuasive as they contain asking prices that may be 
negotiated downwards.
Ive noted the make, model, age, mileage and condition of the vehicle.
Advantage has shown us that  for a vehicle like that at the time of the accident - it obtained 
retail figures from the trade guides as follows:
Autotrader £2,650.00
CAP £5,024.00
Glasses £5,060.00
In addition, our investigator obtained a retail figure from a trade guide as follows:
Cazoo £5,759.00
I consider that the CAP and Glasses figures are in line with each other. The Autotrader 
figure is about half as much, so I disregard that as being out of line.
The Cazoo figure is higher, but I dont disregard it as being out of line with the CAP and 
Glasses figures.
Advantages final figure of £5,060.00 was the same as the Glasses figure. Overall, I consider 
that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable.
Retention of the damaged car
Advantages policy terms included the following:
As soon as a Total Loss settlement is agreed and paid by your Insurer, your Insurer 
is entitled to take possession and ownership of your Car and any salvage shall 
become your Insurers property.
So if the insurer considered that the vehicle was a total loss, but the policyholder considered 
it worth keeping, then the policyholder would have to make a payment or suffer a deduction 
for the salvage value of the damaged vehicle.I cant say that Advantage did anything wrong by assessing the car without a physical 
inspection.
From a recording of a call in May 2022, I accept that Ms B asked about the cost of keeping 
the car. And Advantages call-handler mentioned a cost  in the hundreds. But she said only 
the engineers would  know. In my view, that wasnt helpful in setting Ms Bs expectations.  
I accept Ms Bs statement that she paid for some repairs to the vehicle.
But I dont find that it wasnt fair and reasonable for Advantage to ask for £1,720.40.
Advantage has shown us confidential evidence that it has a contract with a vehicle salvage 
company under which it wouldve received £1,720.40 for the damaged vehicle. So I dont 
find it unfair or unreasonable that Advantage asked Ms B for that amount to keep the 
vehicle.
Cancellation
By an email dated 20 May 2022, Advantage told Ms B the following:
If you don't add a new car to your policy by 19th June 2022, your insurance will end. 
You won't need to pay a cancellation fee and we'll be in touch to confirm you're no 
longer insured by us.
That overlooked the fact that Ms B had said she wished to keep the damaged vehicle.
And on 20 June 2022, Advantage told Ms B it had cancelled the policy with effect from 18 
June 2022. That caused Ms B some concern about what mightve happened if police had 
stopped her. 
But Im satisfied that on 18 and 19 June 2022, the relevant database wouldve showed that 
Ms B was still insured. She had to contact Advantage urgently on 20 June 2022. But 
Advantage reinstated the policy later the same day. So I dont conclude that the cancellation 
and reinstatement caused Ms B inconvenience and distress at a level that calls for financial 
compensation.
Conclusion
Ive noted some shortcomings in the way Advantage communicated with Ms B, particularly 
about her wish to keep the damaged car. I dont under-estimate the impact of those 
shortcomings on Ms B. Advantage caused her uncertainty and worry about keeping the 
vehicle.
But Im satisfied that Advantages payment of £130.00 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Advantages shortcomings caused Ms B at 
an already difficult time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.  
Christopher GilbertOmbudsman