DRN-3045014
The complaint
Mr S has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) continued to charge 
the full monthly fee for his Black account during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr S holds a Black account with NatWest. The account attracts a monthly fee. In return it 
offers a range of benefits such as car breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, worldwide 
travel insurance and access to airport lounge passes. 
Mr S says NatWest should have reduced the monthly account fee for his Black account as 
he has not been able to use the benefits due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr S complained to NatWest in June 2021. NatWest responded to this complaint saying that 
it was not going to reduce or refund the accounts fees for the Black account and if Mr S 
wanted to he could downgrade his account.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr S referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators investigated it, but concluded that NatWest hadnt acted unfairly. So, she didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr S didnt accept this outcome and he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that NatWest needs to do anything. Let me explain why. 
The account that Mr S has complained about contains benefits that are sold as a package. 
Because of this, people are unable to pick and choose what benefits it comes with. And that 
also means it comes at a fixed price. Therefore, if account holders dont feel that the 
combination of benefits that they receive from the package continues to provide good value 
for money, it is up to them to cancel it. 
In this case, Mr S mayve felt (quite understandably) that the account was poor value for 
money during the pandemic. And that he should get a refund as he was unable to use some 
of the benefits. But the account does not operate like a typical insurance policy does. Rather 
than offering to provide cover for 12 months, it provides cover (and some non-insurance 
benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. Therefore, because Mr S was not tied into keeping the 
account, he was free to cancel it as soon as he felt it was no longer good value for money
The decision by NatWest not to reduce or refund the packaged account fees for all 
customers was a commercial decision that it was entitled to make and is not something I can 
comment on. It did though need to explain this clearly to Mr S and set out his options going 
forward. I can see in the final response from NatWest that it was set out that it was up to Mr 
S to decide whether to continue to pay for the account, or cancel it if he preferred to do so. It 
also highlighted that the account could be cancelled. 
Therefore, it was for Mr S to downgrade his account if he wished to do so and I havent seen 
anything that suggests that he did. I understand that this may have been inconvenient for Mr 
S and I can understand how frustrating that it must have been to not be able to use services 
that he was paying for. But ultimately, whilst he may think that it is unfair that NatWest 
continued to charge him the full price for his account, the onus was on him to cancel the 
account if he no longer wished to pay for it. There is no obligation for NatWest to proactively 
check with each consumer if they are able to use the benefits of the account whilst they hold 
it. All NatWest needs to do is highlight what benefits the account comes with, the limitations 
of these benefits and how an account can be cancelled. So, in this instance, while I can 
completely understand why Mr S feels he has not received value for money from his account 
during recent times, I cant ask NatWest to refund any of his account fees.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman