DRN-2710007
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches when Mrs L was applying for a mortgage. The policy provided 
Mrs L with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It cost £15.57 a month and 
would have covered Mrs Ls mortgage payments and provided some additional money each 
month if shed made a successful claim.
In 2003 Mrs L applied to borrow some more money, and Lloyds sold her some additional 
PPI, which increased the monthly payment to £18.07 and the benefits in line with the 
additional monthly repayments.
 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case. 
 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs L has told us that, in several phone calls with Lloyds, she was told her complaint would 
be upheld  but also that because of a particular date  2005  she wouldnt get any money 
back. Mrs L thinks Lloyds should honour what it said in the phone calls and pay her 
compensation.
I havent listened to the phone calls as they havent been provided. But I dont think that 
means I cant reach a fair decision on this complaint. For clarification, it may be worth 
explaining that some banks have been refunding part of the commission they might have 
received as part of the premiums paid on PPI policies. But they only have to do that if the 
mortgage was running between certain dates and the commission was over a certain 
percentage of the premium. Mrs Ls mortgage was repaid in 2005  which means it doesnt 
fall into the relevant date period for refunds like this. So Lloyds wouldnt have to refund any 
commission. Its possible this is what Lloyds was talking about in the phone calls with Mrs L, 
and it might not have explained that clearly enough.
Even if Lloyds made mistakes when talking to Mrs L, then the way it should put things right is 
to put Mrs L in the position shed have been in if it hadnt made that mistake. And the only 
way for Lloyds to do that is for it to assess whether it mis-sold the PPI to Mrs L in both 2001 
and 2003. Lloyds has done that and says it didnt mis-sell either policy so it neednt do 
anything more.
Ive looked at the evidence sent in by Lloyds and considered what Mrs L has said about the 
sale of the PPI. And, although I know this isnt what Mrs L wants, I havent seen any 
evidence that persuades me the policy(ies) was mis-sold.
Mrs L suggests she wasnt given a choice about taking out the PPI on either occasion. I cant 
be sure what was discussed between her and the bank, but I see the 2001 mortgage 
application form asked Mrs L to say yes or no to PPI by ticking the relevant box. The 
yes box is ticked. Theres also a separate application form for the PPI for both 2001 and 
2003  and Mrs L has signed a direct debit mandate each time to authorise payment of the 
premium. Finally theres no mention of the PPI in either of the offer letters  and if the PPI 
was compulsory, it would have been included in these. I cant see that Mrs L thought she 
had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage in 2001 or to borrow more in 2003. 
Overall, despite what Mrs L remembers, I think the bank made her aware that PPI was 
optional and she chose to take it out.
The bank has accepted that it advised Mrs L to take out the policy each time, which means it 
had to check it was suitable for and her particular circumstances. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions for the policy at each of the sale dates, and they are very similar. And from 
the information Mrs L provided, her circumstances were broadly the same in both 2001 and 
2003. So from now on Ill only refer to one policy to make the reading of this decision easier, 
as my findings are the same for both 2001 and 2003.  
I dont think the PPI was unsuitable for Mrs L based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time. 
I say this because:
- Mrs L was eligible for the policy at both sales. 
- Mrs L says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work due 
to a sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place 
would mean Mrs L could use her work-related benefits and savings to pay for other 
expenses. This would probably have been all the more important when the policy was 
sold given that Mrs L was solely responsible for repaying the mortgage and had two 
children to care for. So I think Mrs L would have had some use for the policy despite her 
existing arrangements.
- Mrs L wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mrs L 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- The PPI application set out what the policy would cost each month if a successful claim 
was made. So I think Mrs L would have been aware how much she would be paying for the insurance. Mrs L says she was out of pocket  but Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
cover was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient to meet her monthly mortgage 
repayments.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think Mrs L chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. As Ive already said Mrs L wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mrs L would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would 
still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman