DRN-3387499
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) handled his 
claim for a refund for flight tickets he paid for using his Creation credit card.  
What happened
Mr H bought return flight tickets for him and his wife in January 2020 from an Airline I 
shall call G. He was due to fly on 29 April 2020 and return on 3 May 2020. The cost 
of the tickets was £812.68. 
Mr H redeemed a credit voucher hed received from G to the value of £304 to pay for 
part of the cost of the tickets, leaving him with the remaining sum of £508.68 to pay 
which he did using his Creation credit card. 
G cancelled all of the flights before Mr and Mrs H were due to depart.
Mr H said at the time the flights were cancelled, Gs website explained it would offer 
vouchers instead of cash refunds. He said this wasnt suitable, so he asked Creation 
to consider its liability under section 75 Consumer Credit Act (section 75). 
Creation recovered the money Mr H paid using his Creation credit card via the 
chargeback process. But it said it could not refund the value of the voucher Mr H 
redeemed to pay for the flights. It said the cancellation of the flights was not a breach 
of contract because travel was not guaranteed in the contract. So, it said it wasnt 
liable to Mr H for the amount of the voucher under section 75.
Creation offered to pay Mr H compensation of £15 for what it said was a failure to 
keep Mr H updated about his claim while it looked at it. 
Our investigator thought Creation should have met Mr Hs claim under section 75. 
She said G had failed to provide the service Mr H paid for so he should receive a 
refund of the full value of the ticket he paid for. 
Creation disagreed with the investigator. It said the voucher Mr H used to pay for the 
flights was not redeemable for cash, so it wasnt liable to him for the value of it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant chargeback card scheme rules, Creation couldnt claim back 
sums Mr H didnt pay for with his Creation credit card. So, it couldnt have claimed 
the value of the voucher from G via chargeback. 
Mr Hs contract for carriage with G was a general promise to fly him to the agreed 
destinations. Indeed, Article 11.2 of the contract set out that subject to changes for 
reasons beyond the control of the carrier, flight schedules printed on a ticket formed 
an integral part of the contract of carriage. 
Mr H received tickets from G which included flight schedules. And Ive not seen 
evidence the flights were cancelled for reasons beyond the control of G (for example, 
its not clear whether it was impossible because of Covid-19 restrictions for the flights 
to take off or whether G simply made a commercial decision not to operate them). 
So, Gs failure to operate to those schedules by cancelling the flights was most likely 
a breach of an integral part of the contract. And in any event, it was a breach of the 
general promise to fly Mr H and his partner to the agreed destination. 
Mr H therefore looks to have had a valid claim for breach of contract, which he could 
hold Creation liable for under section 75. I take this into account when considering if 
Creation treated Mr H fairly. 
From what Ive been provided and asked to consider, Mr Hs loss as a result of this 
breach of contract was the cash price of the tickets  consisting of the payments he 
made using his Creation credit card and the voucher he is no longer able to benefit 
from. 
The voucher contained a term that it couldnt be bartered or sold. But I dont read 
this mean it had no cash value. The term appeared in a section relating to 
transferability of the voucher and I think this description was used in the context that 
the voucher cant be transferred to anyone else, whether by gift or by sale  or it 
becomes invalid. Its also clear from what Ive seen that the voucher was provided 
because G cancelled a previous flight that Mr H had bought from it.
Im satisfied Mr H has made reasonable attempts to claim the remaining sums not 
recovered via chargeback from G, but without success. He has shown us evidence of 
his attempts to claim via Gs website and calls hes tried to make to it. So, Im 
satisfied on balance Mr H has not had a refund from G for the value of the voucher. 
Overall, I find that Creation treated Mr H unfairly by refusing to meet the remaining 
value of his claim.
G appears unwilling to refund Mr H or provide a new voucher to the value of £304 
and Creation is of course not able to issue a new voucher to him. In the 
circumstances (and taking Creations liability to Mr H under section 75 into account), 
a fair alternative to put things right here is that Creation should pay the value of the 
voucher to him to compensate for his loss.  
Creation should add interest to this amount of 8% simple per year from the date it 
declined to meet his claim. 
Creation offered to pay Mr H compensation of £15 for what it considered to be its 
service failings. Creation did take a while to look at Mr Hs claim and didnt keep him 
updated about it. Taking everything into account however, including the operational 
challenges no doubt faced by Creation during what were unprecedented times, and 
the fact it was G that caused the problem in the first place by failing to refund Mr H, I think this is fair compensation in this case for any distress or inconvenience that 
might have been caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. To put things right Creation Financial 
Services Limited must:
Pay Mr H £304 plus interest at 8% simple per year from 26 August 2020 until the 
date of settlement.* 
Pay Mr H compensation of £15 for distress and inconvenience (if it hasnt done this  
already) 
* If Creation Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman