DRN-2937525
The complaint
Miss V complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim made on her 
husband, Mr Ls, motor insurance policy. Miss V is a named driver on the policy and is 
representing Mr L in this complaint.
 
What happened
Mr Ls car was damaged, and AXA arranged for it to be taken to its approved repairer. There 
were severe delays in making the repairs due to waits for parts and then the lockdown due 
to the pandemic. But whilst the car was at the garage its roof rails were cut and specialist 
roof racks and bike stands were stolen. The garage made repairs to the roof, but Miss V was 
unhappy with their quality and provided an independent report to support this. Also, the 
racks and stands werent replaced. Miss V was unhappy with this and that this had spoilt two 
family holidays. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AXA 
should pay for the rectification work to the roof and replacement of the roof racks and bike 
stands. And she thought AXA should pay Miss V £250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused her. 
Miss V reluctantly agreed to this, though she thought the level of compensation should be 
higher. AXA didnt respond to the investigators view. So the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there were considerable delays in AXAs approved repairer making the 
accident-related repairs and then the repairs following the theft. I think this was due to 
difficulties in sourcing the needed parts and the pandemic-related shut-down. This was 
unfortunate. But I cant say that AXA was responsible for these delays as they were outside 
its control. Miss V was provided with a replacement car for most of this time, so I think she 
was kept mobile. 
But Miss V has provided a report showing that further repairs are needed to the roof 
following the theft-related damage. This followed AXA declining her request for an 
independent assessment of the repairs. I think AXA is responsible for this damage as the car 
was in its care at the time. And so I think it should put this right. Miss Vs report contains 
details of other work to be done, but I think AXA is only responsible for that related to the 
accident or the theft. Miss V has already provided AXAs repairs agent with a breakdown of 
the costs of repairs to the roof. 
I can see that Miss V is reluctant to return to AXAs approved repairer as the relationship 
seems to have broken down. I think AXA should reasonably take this into consideration 
when arranging for the rectification work. 
AXAs repairer provided Miss V with a quote for replacement roof racks and bike stands. I 
can see that the quote has expired and so a new one should be obtained. And I cant see 
that this quote provides for the cost of installation. I think AXA should restore Miss Vs 
position by either reimbursing her for the cost of these parts (based on an updated quote) 
and their installation, or it should have a repairer obtain the parts and install them. 
I think Miss V has received a poor level of service from AXA. Her car was returned to her not 
at the standard it should have been and with the roof racks and bike stands missing. Miss V 
was put to considerable trouble in raising her concerns and trying to get them put right. She 
was without the enjoyment of her car and wasnt able to take her bikes on family holidays. 
She was caused frustration and stress by AXAs handling of her claim.
The garage offered to refund Miss Vs £350 excess charge, but this had already been 
waived by AXA as it was a non-fault claim and the other insurer accepted liability. The 
garage also filled Miss Vs cars petrol tank. I think this goes some way towards restoring 
Miss Vs position. 
Our investigator recommended that AXA should pay Miss V £250 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused her. I can understand that Miss V feels that this isnt adequate for 
what shes experienced. But I think this is in keeping with the level Id award in similar 
circumstances. And so I think this is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
1. Arrange for the rectification of accident-related and theft-related damage to the car as 
identified in the independent report. 
2. Pay for the replacement and installation of the missing roof racks and bike stands.
3. Pay Miss V £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman