DRN-1120019
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Miss R says 
Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Santander had to make it clear to Miss R that she had a choice about 
it. But Miss R says it wasnt made clear to her that the policy was optional.
Santander hasnt been able to send us any paperwork from the sale of Miss Rs mortgage or 
PPI policy. But it has sent us a sample of the PPI application form it says wouldve been 
completed. And this shows the customers details and the benefit selected wouldve been 
filled in and the customer wouldve signed to say they wanted to apply for the PPI.
Based on the evidence I have, I think its likely Santander did make it clear to Miss R that 
she had a choice about the PPI. And that Miss R chose to take it, knowing she didnt have 
to.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Miss R, so it had to check that it was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Miss R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The 
policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled 
to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on any savings she had to 
make her mortgage repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Santander had to give Miss R clear information 
about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Miss Rs property couldve been at 
risk if shed failed to make her repayments. So I think she couldve found the protection the 
policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like 
the PPI would have been useful for Miss R if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Miss R off taking 
it out.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman