DRN-3935262
The complaint
Miss K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave her two 
credit card accounts that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 7 March 2019, the first credit card account that Miss K is complaining about was 
opened by Capital One with an initial credit limit of £200. This credit limit was increased on 
28 June 2019 to £450. 
On 10 July 2019, the second credit card account that Miss K has complained about was 
opened by Capital One with an initial credit limit of £200. This credit limit was never 
increased. 
In 2022, Miss K complained to Capital One to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened because they werent affordable and that Capital One ought to have made a better 
effort to understand her financial circumstances before opening the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss K didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ks complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss K provided at the time of 
each application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Miss 
Ks name to assess Miss Ks level of debt at each time and to understand how she had 
been managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Capital 
One decided to agree to the credit limits of £200 for each card initially and the credit limit 
increase to £450 on the first card. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the 
time of the lending decisions. And from the information that Capital One had or were given I 
dont think they were put on notice to make more searching enquiries into Miss Ks financial 
position. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest for each credit card account and the 
maximum monthly payments for that credit were also relatively modest. And the Capital One 
checks showed that Miss K was managing her other credit well at the time of the lending 
decisions. 
And at the time of the second account Capital One had Miss Ks management of her 
existing account to consider in its lending decision. I have seen nothing in Miss Ks 
management of that account that would have put Capital One off providing the next credit 
card account with such a modest credit limit.
I have to look at the information that was available to Capital One at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that Capital One had acquired or had presented to it at the time of the 
lending decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were 
offering needed more searching checks or that it was unreasonable at the times it was 
provided. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Capital One provided to Miss K was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman