DRN-2437505
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited handled a claim she made 
on her mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H holds a mobile insurance policy with Assurant. Mrs H noticed an issue with the audio 
and the lock button of her phone and took it to the manufacturer. Mrs H said she was told by 
the manufacturer that her phone couldnt be repaired and needed to be replaced. Following 
this advice, Mrs H made a claim to Assurant and paid the £100 excess set out in her policy.
Assurant accepted Mrs Hs claim and opted to repair it rather than replace it. Mrs H 
requested a copy of the engineers report to show why her phone was repaired and not 
replaced but this was never sent.
Approximately a month after Mrs H received her phone back after the repair, she noticed the 
lock button was having issues again. So she contacted Assurant to see what could be done.
Assurant agreed to look at Mrs Hs phone again to see if it needed a further repair or 
whether it needed to be replaced. It said it would do this under the warranty it provided on 
her first repair. Mrs H agreed to this and arranged to send her phone back to Assurant for it 
investigate and hopefully fix the issue with her phones lock button.
There was a delay in Mrs H sending her phone back to Assurant due to her needing to 
arrange a time around work and also due to Mrs H being in hospital.  But eventually - around 
four months after Mrs H first reported the issue with the lock screen after the first repair - she 
sent her phone to Assurant for it to assess.
When the phone arrived at Assurant, the screen was cracked. Assurant said this voided the 
warranty on the previous repair it carried out and that if Mrs H wanted Assurant to replace 
her phone, shed need to make another claim and pay another £100 excess. Mrs H paid the 
additional £100 and Assurant sent her a replacement phone.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to Assurant. She said she never 
received the report detailing that her phone could have been repaired. She wasnt happy 
Assurant first repaired her phone after the manufacturer said it needed to be replaced and 
thought this repair hadnt worked so didnt think it was fair she pay two excesses.
Assurant acknowledged it didnt send Mrs H the report when it should have done but 
maintained it was acting in line with her policy by repairing the phone the first time around. 
And it said as the phone arrived damaged the second time, it couldnt see whether the first 
repair was the cause of the problems and that the warranty on that repair was voided.
Mrs H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended Mrs Hs complaint be upheld. She thought Assurant was 
acting in line with the policy by repairing her phone and not replacing it. But she didnt think 
Assurant had shown that the damage to the screen meant Mrs H needed to pay a second 
excess. She recommended to put things right that Assurant refund Mrs H the second £100 
excess shed paid it.
Assurant disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It maintained that the warranty 
on the first repair was void because it received the phone with a damaged screen and so 
couldnt investigate the first repair properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
Assurant will be hoping for. Ill explain my reasons below.
Mrs Hs policy with Assurant covers her phone for damage or breakdown. The policy sets 
out that Assurant will repair Mrs Hs phone if possible and replace it where a repair isnt 
possible. This means Assurant was entitled to attempt repair. Ive seen the report carried out 
after the repair and it seemed at that point that the repair had been a success.
Mrs H isnt happy she wasnt sent this report, and I can understand why after she was told 
by the manufacturer that it couldnt be repaired. Assurant have acknowledged it should have 
sent Mrs H this report. And Im satisfied that acknowledgment is enough.
However shortly after Mrs H received her phone back from being repaired, she noticed one 
of the issues shed reported, the lock button, was still not functioning correctly. From what 
Ive seen, Mrs H notified Assurant of this right away. I understand Assurant didnt receive 
Mrs Hs phone for another four months, but Im not sure that matters here. Theres clear 
evidence to point to Mrs Hs phone experiencing a problem shortly after it was repaired.
When Assurant finally did receive Mrs Hs phone it arrived with a damaged screen. Mrs H 
has said this was most likely caused at the Post Office when she sent her phone to Assurant 
as the assistant dropped her phone by mistake. I understand Assurant have said that 
because the screen was damaged, thered be no way of telling whether the dropping of the 
phone caused more issues, whether the first repair was unsuccessful or whether there was 
another cause for Mrs Hs phones lock button not working. It also said to carry out the 
investigation the screen would need to be removed and then further damage could have 
been caused.
I appreciate Assurants position here. But I dont think it leads to a fair outcome in this case. I 
think Mrs H had a reasonable expectation that Assurants repair would be long lasting and 
effective. Mrs H reported an issue with her phone very shortly after the first repair. This was 
the same issue she reported during her first claim, so its likely that the first repair wasnt of 
lasting quality. And so I think its possible, likely even, that Assurant would have needed to 
replace Mrs Hs phone when it received it the second time.
Assurant has said it likely took the decision to replace the phone to avoid further delays. And 
I think this was in an attempt to help Mrs H. But had Assurant assessed the phone, or 
attempted repair and in doing so caused further damage due to the cracked screen, I think it 
would be reasonable to treat this as another claim and charge another excess. Equally had it 
taken the screen off and found the fault to be caused by something other than Assurants 
first repair then again, it would be fair to treat the replacement as another claim and charge 
an additional excess. But its not shown this. I appreciate its said it may have carried out a 
second report, but its not been able to evidence it did. And so I dont find it reasonable to 
charge Mrs H another excess for something that Assurant hasnt been able to evidence it wouldnt likely have needed to do anyway, whether the screen was damaged or not.
I understand Assurant has pointed out that Mrs H isnt covered for damage to her phone 
while in the care of the Post Office, and this is clear in the policy. But as mentioned above, 
Im not satisfied Assurant has shown that it wouldnt have needed to replace Mrs Hs phone 
anyway, regardless of the cracked screen.
In light of the above I dont think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is to charge 
Mrs H two excesses. So to put things right, Assurant should refund the second £100 excess 
Mrs H paid it.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. To put things right I require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mrs H the second £100 excess
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman