DRN-3899392
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about QIC Europe Ltds decisions to decline a claim she made for 
damage to the floor of her home.
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat 
them again in full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mrs W made a claim when she 
noticed bulging of her living room floor.
QIC advised Mrs W to obtain her own report on the cause of damage, and to refer that report 
to QIC for consideration.
Mrs Ws report concluded that the damage had been caused by a sulphate attack. QIC also 
appointed its own field surveyor to inspect the damage. This surveyor agreed with the 
conclusions of Mrs Ws surveyor. 
QIC declined to cover Mrs Ws claim on the basis that a sulphate attack is not an insured 
event, and that the damage would have happened gradually, over time, which is specifically 
excluded. QIC also said the claim couldve been considered under the accidental damage 
extension of cover, but Mrs W didnt have this.
Mrs W is unhappy with the decision to decline her claim. Shes also unhappy that she was 
advised to appoint her own surveyor, at significant cost, when QIC later sent its own 
surveyor in any event. She wants QIC to reimburse her costs.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said QIC was correct to advise Mrs W to obtain her own report and that its decision to 
decline the claim was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs W didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has brought her claim and complaint through a representative. But for ease of 
reading, Ill only refer to Mrs W by name in this decision, even when referring to evidence or 
arguments put forward by her representative.
Having carefully considered the evidence and arguments, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
QICs claims advice
Mrs Ws policy covers damage caused by specified insured events (perils). These include 
flood, storm, fire, theft and others. In order for a claim to be covered, it needs to be one of 
these insured events, and damage must have happened while the policy was in force.
When making a claim, it is for the policyholder to show that their property has, most likely, 
suffered damage from an insured event. Once a policyholder has shown this, it is for the 
insurer to show whether or not an exclusion applies.
Mrs Ws policy document explains the claims procedure and conditions on page 14. These 
include the following:
At your own expense, we may ask you to provide us with all the information, 
evidence and help we need to investigate the claim, including written estimates, 
reports and proof of ownership and value, which may include original receipts, 
invoices, bank or credit card statements.
Based on the above, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that QIC were wrong to 
ask Mrs W to obtain her own report on the cause of damage, in the first instance. I say this 
because a bulge beneath the floor of the home isnt necessarily indicative of an insured 
event having taken place.
I do appreciate Mrs W has incurred significant costs for the report. But as I think QICs 
advice to obtain the report was reasonable, and in line with the terms of the policy, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to direct QIC to cover these costs  regardless of the fact that it later 
decided to send its own surveyor.
QICs claim decision
The expert evidence in this case isnt in dispute. The cause of damage has been identified 
as a sulphate attack. This is a chemical reaction between the sulphates (salts) within the 
make-up of the ground and water, resulting in expansion, deformation and possible cracking. 
The expert evidence suggests that in 2013/14, construction works on a nearby development 
resulted in a prolonged overland flow of water, during heavy rainfall, which cascaded over 
Mrs Ws garden. It is suggested that this is how the water got into the ground and began to 
react with the sulphates, causing damage to occur slowly over time.
Ive considered whether this overland flow of water could be considered as an insured event 
(flood). But this overland flow of water didnt cause any damage at the time and, crucially, 
happened many years before Mrs Ws policy with QIC began.
As explained above, in order for a claim to be covered under Mrs Ws policy, damage 
mustve been caused by an insured event which took place while the policy was in force. But 
a sulphate attack is not an insured event, and the catalyst of the sulphate attack (the 
overland flow of water) happened well before QIC were Mrs Ws insurer. So, I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to expect QIC to cover Mrs Ws claim in these circumstances.
In addition to the above, Mrs Ws policy specifically excludes damage which happens 
gradually. And it isnt in dispute that the damage in this case happened over a period of 
several years, most likely since 2013/14.Where gradual damage is happening out of sight, and the policyholder acts quickly once the 
damage materialises, our service sometimes considers it unfair for insurers to refuse claims 
on the basis of a gradual damage exclusion. But this would only be the case where the 
gradual damage had been caused by an insured event. So, as a sulphate attack isnt an 
insured event, I dont think Mrs Ws claim should succeed on this basis either.
Taking everything into account, I think QICs decision to decline Mrs Ws claim is in line with 
the terms and conditions of her policy and is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman