DRN-1096185
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) authorised 
charges over his credit limit and applied non-sterling transaction fees.
What happened
Mr L had an AMEX credit card with an £11,000 credit limit. Whilst Mr L was on a cruise, 
AMEX approved a charge of £11,166.38 in February 2019 to the card. A further charge of 
£16,190.02 was approved in March 2019, taking Mr L considerably over his credit limit. Mr L 
says the third-party holiday provider (the merchant) charged the second transaction to the 
AMEX card in error; it should have been applied to a different credit card. 
Mr L also thought that the merchant transactions would be billed in pounds, but was 
disappointed to discover that they were billed in US dollars, resulting in foreign currency 
transaction fees also being charged to the card.
Mr L says AMEX should not have approved charges over this limit, he would like the interest 
and foreign currency transaction fees refunded.
AMEX say they did nothing wrong. The charges were billed to the card in US dollars by the 
merchant and there was nothing to show that an error had been made. Mr L met their 
internal credit scoring and so the transactions were permitted as a gesture of goodwill to Mr 
L. No additional fees were charged for spending over the limit.
Our investigator considered the complaint, she thought there was nothing within the terms 
and conditions to say that AMEX would refuse transactions over a credit limit. Mr L hadnt 
been approved for a limit increase to £20,000 in February because it was the second 
request within three months, not because it was unaffordable for him. AMEX had considered 
whether the transactions were genuine and whether Mr L could repay them. Theyd taken 
into account their internal lending criteria and wished to minimise embarrassment to their 
customer. There was nothing to show that Mr L would struggle with repayment, Mr L 
accepted the transactions were his and he brought the account back within the limit quite 
quickly. 
Mr L disagrees with the view. He thinks AMEX shouldnt have authorised the charge and if 
that had happened he wouldnt have been charged interest and the foreign currency 
transaction fees. Our investigator further explained that no over the limit fees had been 
charged and she invited Mr L to send in statements from the alternative card he had 
intended to use.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What I've decided - any why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It isnt disputed by Mr L that he spent the sums charged to his card and neither is it 
suggested that spending these sums placed him in financial difficulty. Rather, he says hed 
asked the merchant to charge the expenses hed incurred to a different card and had that 
happened he wouldnt have paid such high interest or been charged foreign currency 
transaction fees.
I havent anything to show that the merchant made an error in charging the sums spent to 
the AMEX card. Mr L had given the AMEX card details to the merchant. I appreciate Mr L 
says he thought a different card would be charged on the second transaction, but theres 
nothing to support this. Despite reasonable requests from our investigator, Mr L hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that he had another credit card at the time or that the 
merchant had failed to follow his instructions.
It isnt disputed that the sums billed to the card took Mr L significantly over his credit limit. 
The terms and conditions for the card explain that the credit limit is the maximum amount 
that a customer can borrow on their account. And whilst customers are advised to keep 
within their credit limit, if a transaction does take a customer over their limit a charge might 
be applied and AMEX might ask for enough to be paid back into the account to bring the 
balance within the limit. 
AMEX say its a matter within their discretion whether or not to approve a transaction over 
the limit and they took into account convenience to their customer. Ive considered if AMEX 
undertook any checks. In this case, AMEX took into account that the transactions were from 
the same merchant, they considered Mr Ls previous management of his account and say Mr 
L met their internal lending criteria for this amount. AMEX didnt charge Mr L extra for going 
over the credit limit. Ive seen that Mr L was told by AMEX (in a Live Chat) that the charge 
was approved as a gesture of goodwill and because he had a good credit history. 
Mr L says AMEX declined an application to extend his credit limit to £20,000 in February 
2019. But this was refused as it was the second extension request in less than three months, 
not on affordability grounds. When the larger transaction was applied to the card, Im 
satisfied that proportionate checks were made and Ive taken into account that Mr L did 
repay that balance.
Mr L has also said that the merchant should have charged the card in pounds. I appreciate 
he was disappointed to find that both transactions were billed in US dollars. But I cant fairly 
say that was down to AMEX, they processed the transaction as it was applied by the 
merchant. Mr L hasnt provided anything to show that the merchant made an error here. In 
line with the terms and conditions for the card, a non-sterling transaction fee was applied, at 
2.99% on the amount after the transaction had been converted to pounds sterling. Ive seen 
that information about this fee was also set out on the monthly statements for the card.
So overall, I dont think AMEX did anything wrong in charging interest and the transaction 
fees.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but for the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
 Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman