DRN-3878551
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Experian Limited recorded someone elses information on his 
credit file.
What happened
In late 2022, a county court judgement (CCJ) was added to Mr Ks credit file. The CCJ had 
been registered against someone with the same name and same address as Mr K, and the 
court had not included the date of birth in the information they reported. So it ended up on 
Mr Ks credit file in error.
Mr K reported this to Experian and provided identity documents to show he was not the 
person the CCJ was against. Experian explained what had gone wrong and removed the 
CCJ. They offered Mr K £150 compensation.
However, in the meantime, Mr Ks credit card provider reduced his credit limit from about 
£17,000 to £150. Mr K explained this was because of the CCJ.
Mr K expressed his shock and anxiety at finding the CCJ. He felt that hed lost his entire 
financial reputation. He asked for £17,000 compensation, an apology, for Experian to 
change their processes, for his former credit limit to be reinstated, and for a guarantee that 
Experian would never make such a mistake again.
Our investigator looked into things independently and recommended that Experian pay Mr K 
£250 compensation in total. Mr K didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr K found it distressing to discover someone elses CCJ on his credit file, 
and I can certainly appreciate why he might be anxious to make sure this has been resolved.
Ive looked at Mr Ks full credit file, and I can assure him the CCJ has indeed been removed.
Ive also thought carefully about what Experian are responsible for and what they should do 
to put things right.
First, I should explain that the issue stemmed from the court not adding the date of birth to 
the CCJ. Then the name and address were an exact match for Mr K, and at that point there 
was no data which indicated it wasnt Mr Ks CCJ. So I can see how it ended up being added 
to Mr Ks file. Of course, this was an error. But the point is that I dont think this was solely 
caused by Experian mishandling things.
Next, Ive taken into account that Experian acted quickly to get the information they needed 
from Mr K and remove the CCJ. So it wasnt on his file very long.
While I can completely understand Mr Ks anxiety about the situation, I hope I can reassure 
him that the CCJ is gone from his credit file. So his credit score has not been ruined, nor has 
his financial reputation been destroyed.
Im sorry to hear about what happened with Mr Ks credit card and its credit limit. I do need 
to explain, though, that this does not appear to have been caused by Experian. From what 
I can see, Mr Ks credit card provider didnt actually look at his Experian credit file before 
reducing his limit. They only looked at his Experian file on 10 October 2022  after theyd 
already reduced his limit. They may have reduced his credit limit because of information 
from one of the other credit reference agencies  Equifax or TransUnion. Mr K may wish to 
check his Equifax and TransUnion credit files, to make sure they didnt make a similar 
mistake with the CCJ, and to check if theres any other negative data on those files.
With that said, even if I accept that Experian caused Mr Ks credit limit to get reduced, 
I should also explain that Experian cannot make the credit card company put the old limit 
back. It was the credit card companys decision to change the limit, not Experians. And 
since this complaint is about Experian, not the credit card company, I cannot tell the credit 
card company to change any limit in this decision. What I will do is ask Experian to give Mr K 
a letter explaining that the CCJ was not his, that it was added in error, and that any lending 
decisions based on it may need to be reviewed. Mr K can then provide this to his credit card 
company, and ask if theyll review his limit  hopefully this will help. But if the credit card 
company still refuse to change Mr Ks credit limit, then he may wish to make a separate 
complaint to the credit card company and then bring that to us as a separate case if needed, 
and then well be in a better position to help with that.
I also cannot make Experian change their processes or change the way they work across 
the board. Were here to resolve individual cases informally  were not the regulator. Thats 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And I cannot guarantee that Experian will never 
make a similar mistake with anyone else ever again. Companies are staffed by people, and 
people do sometimes make mistakes. The main thing is that when a business gets things 
wrong, we expect them to put it right. 
In terms of putting things right, I do understand why Mr K would like an apology. The 
problem is that if I were to make Experian apologise, it would seem forced rather than 
genuine  theyd be saying sorry because I told them to. Further, I can see that Experian 
have already apologised multiple times, and this clearly hasnt repaired their relationship with 
Mr K. So I dont think another apology is likely to help.
Instead of apologies, we often tell businesses to pay compensation, to recognise what they 
got wrong and the impact it had. When it comes to the amounts, its worth bearing in mind 
that were not the FCA and arent here to issue fines or to punish businesses.Here, I understand that this was distressing for Mr K, that it caused him some real worry, and 
that hes had to put effort into sorting this out. Ive also taken into account how much of this 
Experian are responsible for in particular, and the speed in which they fixed the problem. We 
have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent 
with those. Taking everything into account, I think £250 compensation is fair to put right what 
Experian got wrong.
Putting things right
I direct Experian Limited to:
Provide Mr K with a letter stating that this CCJ was not Mr Ks, that it was on his 
Experian credit file for a time in error, and that any lending decisions made during 
that time may have been based on inaccurate information.
Pay Mr K £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part, and direct Experian Limited 
to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman