DRN-2444449
The complaint
Mrs F complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to transfer the correct 
amount of her Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another provider. 
What happened
Mrs F held an ISA with Nationwide and gave instructions for the balance of the ISA to be 
sent to another provider. Mrs F was then informed by the new ISA provider that the whole of 
the balance hadnt been received. Mrs F was told by Nationwide they had sent the amount 
requested by the new ISA provider but following further investigation by Mrs F she produced 
evidence to Nationwide that the error in the amount sent was made by them and not the new 
ISA provider. Mrs F says it was only after she had provided the evidence to Nationwide, they 
accepted their mistake and increased their compensation to a total of £200, plus £10 
expenses and an interest adjustment payment. Mrs F doesnt feel the offer of compensation 
fairly reflects the stress and inconvenience caused. 
Nationwide say they accept they misinterpreted the instructions given to them by the new 
ISA provider and provided poor customer service to Mrs F when informing her originally the 
error was not of their making. Nationwide say they have apologised to Mrs F and they feel 
the offer of compensation awarded is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs F wasnt happy with Nationwides response and offer of compensation and referred the 
matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information provided but didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
The investigator acknowledged that Nationwide had made a mistake, but they had 
apologised for this and put her back into a position she would have been in before the 
mistake occurred. She felt the compensation offered was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs F wasnt happy with the investigators response and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it must have been frustrating and stressful for Mrs F to be told the error in 
not transferring the full amount of her ISA was a mistake made by the new ISA provider, 
when in fact later, through her own efforts, she discovered Nationwide had made the mistake 
all along. 
When looking at this complaint, I have considered if Nationwide adequately compensated 
Mrs F for the trouble and upset, she has experienced.
What happened here is Mrs F made arrangements for her ISA balance to be transferred to a 
new ISA provider. From the information I have seen, Nationwide misinterpreted the 
instructions received from the new ISA provider and didnt transfer the full balance of the 
account, resulting in £15,200 not being sent to the new ISA provider. I have also seen 
correspondence between Nationwide and Mrs F initially suggesting they were not at fault 
and the error lay with the new ISA provider. Mrs F then carried out her own investigations by 
contacting the new ISA provider who produced evidence to support they gave instructions to 
Nationwide to transfer the full balance to be sent. 
Nationwide then accepted the error was in fact theirs and apologised and increased their 
compensation offer to a total of £200, plus minor expenses and an interest adjustment for 
the time it took to transfer the remaining balance. There is no dispute that Nationwide made 
mistakes here and added to this when they told Mrs F the error in the ISA transfer was not 
theirs, adding further frustration and stress for Mrs F. 
It is worth mentioning that Mrs F felt Nationwide had been untruthful in their dealings with 
her and this in part is why she felt the compensation offered is insufficient. I understand the 
point Mrs F makes, but from my investigation I am satisfied, Nationwide genuinely thought 
they had acted on the instructions given to them by the new ISA provider but unfortunately 
misinterpreted the instructions they received. I can see no evidence to support there was 
any intention on Nationwides part to be deliberately dishonest or untruthful here. Thats not 
to say they havent made mistakes or caused trouble and upset to Mrs F.
My role is to ensure that when mistakes are made, they are corrected in a way that puts 
customers back into a position they would have been, prior to the event in question  I am 
satisfied this is what happened here. It is not my role to penalise or fine a business, like 
Nationwide, but to ensure an adequate amount of compensation is made when mistakes like 
this occur. On balance, I am satisfied the offer made by Nationwide is fair and reasonable 
and at a level I would expect to see given the circumstances here.
While Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision, I will not be asking any more of 
Nationwide.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman