DRN-3210305
The complaint
Mrs K complains an engineer supplied by British Gas Services Limited, broke her boiler 
during an annual service visit and left her tenants at risk in a rental property by not turning 
the boiler off. She also complains about the overall service received from British Gas. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs K has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive 
read and considered carefully everything shes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mrs K, and by British Gas, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It wouldnt have been foreseeable to the engineer that the bolt would sheer during 
the process of it being tightened. I think its more likely than not this action simply 
served to highlight there were existing issues with the boiler casing. Having reviewed 
the photos supplied in the engineers report, Im satisfied it shows there was some 
corrosion in this area.
Im satisfied it is more likely than not the photos were taken at Mrs Ks rental property 
It would be very coincidental for an engineer from the same company to be visiting 
the property next door (identified by the GPS tracker) and taking photos of a boiler at 
exactly the same time.
It isnt my role to determine if the engineers breached industry regulations. British 
Gas has correctly let Mrs K know of the correct organisation to raise her concerns 
with, in that respect. Ive considered if the engineers followed the usual process 
where issues are raised meaning a boiler shouldnt be used and I think they did. 
While I appreciate Mrs K thinks her tenants shouldnt have been given the option of 
the having the boiler being left on, in some instances British Gas does have to seek 
the permission of the occupants of the property to turn the boiler off. 
The casing of the boiler breaking, and the boiler overheating were a result of two 
separate issues. 
Given the casing part couldnt be replaced, the boiler itself had to be changed. The 
policy wouldnt have provided for a replacement boiler in this instance as the original 
was over seven years old. Im not able to consider how long it may have taken British 
Gas, as a business, to supply and fit a new boiler as this isnt an activity regulated by 
this service. 
Complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity however I do recognise this would 
have added to Mrs Ks dissatisfaction with how matters were being handled. 
British Gas has offered Mrs K £100 compensation to reflect the fact there were 
failings in its service, such as the engineer not returning to the property when agreed 
and other matters. Having reviewed everything, I think this adequately reflects the 
trouble and upset that was caused to Mrs K by the poor service. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint against British Gas Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman