DRN-3398065
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave them incorrect 
information when they took out a new interest rate deal on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs B held a mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage offer issued to them in 2009 
outlined that the term of the mortgage was 22 years and the borrowing at that time was on 
an interest only basis. They took some additional borrowing in 2010, over a term of 20 years. 
This additional borrowing was on a capital repayment basis.
In 2017, Mr R spoke to Halifax about a new fixed interest rate for their whole mortgage. He 
says the option of extending the mortgage term was discussed. While he didnt apply at that 
time, he says he was told this would still be an option after any newly agreed interest rate 
deal expired. Mr R and Mrs B subsequently took a five-year fixed interest rate, which was 
due to run until October 2022. If the mortgage was repaid in full before that date, an early 
repayment charge (ERC) would be payable.
In 2020, Mr R enquired about taking additional borrowing. Halifax said it couldnt agree to 
provide a further advance. It has said this was because it understood Mr R and Mrs B didnt 
have an appropriate plan for repaying the interest only borrowing  so it wouldnt agree to 
increase the amount they owed. And it noted the term of any additional borrowing would be 
limited to one year anyway, due to Mrs Bs age taking her over the maximum age it was 
willing to lend to, which would make the borrowing unaffordable and outside of its current 
lending criteria. It also noted, that due to Mrs Bs age, the term of the existing borrowing 
couldnt be extended.
Mr R and Mrs B took a mortgage with another lender that could provide the additional 
borrowing. In doing so they repaid their Halifax mortgage and incurred and ERC.
Mr R and Mrs B also complained to Halifax. They said theyd been told in 2017 that they 
would be able to extend the term of the mortgage. And they said theyd only taken a new 
fixed interest rate deal because they were told this. So, they felt Halifax should refund the 
ERC, the interest theyd paid since that time and pay them compensation for the distress 
caused.
Halifax initially said it couldnt find any evidence it gave incorrect information. A recording of 
the conversation between Mr R and Halifax in 2017 was subsequently recovered. After 
listening to this call Halifax agreed that its adviser had incorrectly said that the term could be 
extended  without accounting for Mrs Bs age and its lending policy. So, it offered Mr R and 
Mrs B a total of £750 for the upset caused by being given this incorrect information and it 
initially declining their complaint. It didnt though agree to refund the ERC or any other costs. 
It said, while incorrect information had been given, based on the contents of the call it didnt 
agree that this was the only reason that Mr R and Mrs B had taken the fixed rate in 2017. 
And even though the term couldnt be extended, at the time of the complaint the mortgage 
still had over ten years remaining on its term. And Mr R and Mrs B could still have applied for 
new interest rate deals within the existing term. So, Halifax didnt think it had forced them to 
take a mortgage elsewhere.
Mr R and Mrs B asked our service to consider their complaint. They said theyd only taken 
the new fixed rate in 2017 as theyd been told extending the term was a potential option. 
They said their plan had been to extend the term, switch the mortgage to a repayment basis 
at the next renewal and take additional borrowing. And so, they felt the ERC should be 
refunded.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Halifax needed to do any 
more. He agreed Halifax had given Mr R and Mrs B incorrect information in 2017. But he 
didnt think this was the only factor that had led to them taking the new fixed rate. And when 
the mortgage was redeemed there was still a number of years left on the term. He didnt 
think Halifax had forced Mr R and Mrs B to redeem the mortgage, so he didnt think the ERC 
needed to be refunded.
Mr R and Mrs B did not agree. They reiterated that the only reason they took a new fixed 
interest rate was because of the incorrect information given by Halifax. They said, when they 
found out this was incorrect, theyd felt trapped on a mortgage that wasnt right for them and 
had been forced to find an alternative. And they also said they didnt feel they should have 
had to put their plans, including taking additional borrowing, on hold because of the incorrect 
information Halifax had provided. Mr R and Mrs B said theyd seen examples of cases that 
they believed were similar to theirs where our service had said an ERC needed to be 
refunded. And they didnt think the Investigator had fully considered the relevant 
requirements of Halifax set by the regulator.
As Mr R and Mrs B didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I should start by reiterating our services role. We are not a regulator and it isnt our 
role to police businesses. Nor are our awards intended to fine or punish a business. We are 
an informal dispute resolution service that looks at the circumstances of a complaint and, if 
we believe an error has been made, looks at what we think the fair and reasonable way to 
put that right is. While Mr R and Mrs B have referenced a decision that was published on our 
website that they believe means we should recommend a refund of their ERC and other 
costs, I have looked at the individual circumstances of their complaint when making my 
decision.Halifax has acknowledged that it has made an error here. It accepts that it gave incorrect 
information to Mr R and Mrs B during a phone call in 2017, shortly before they took a new 
fixed rate interest deal on their mortgage. So, what is left for me to decide is what the fair 
way to put that right is.
Mr R and Mrs B have said that without this incorrect information they wouldnt have taken 
the new interest rate. Theyve talked about their plan always being to extend their mortgage 
term and convert it to a capital repayment basis. And theyve said they always intended to 
take additional borrowing  as this was their family plan. And if Halifax hadnt said the term 
extension would still be possible in the future, they wouldnt have taken the rate.
Ive listened to the call Mr R had with the advisor in 2017 when they reviewed their mortgage 
arrangements. This call seems to have been prompted because their existing fixed interest 
rate deal was coming to an end.
The term of the mortgage was discussed at two points during the call. When discussing 
requirements the advisor asked whether it was Mr R and Mrs Bs intention to keep the term 
the same (at the time of the call there were over 13 years left on the mortgage term), to 
reduce it so that the mortgage was paid off sooner, or to extend it. The advisor shouldve 
been aware that extending the term was not an option. But Mr R answered by saying he and 
Mrs B did not want to extend the term at that time.
Towards the end of the call Mr R asked the advisor about term extensions  whether that 
would potentially be an option at his next review, when the new fixed rate deal he was 
putting in place ended. And the advisor incorrectly again said that it would. But Mr R also 
indicated at that point that extending the term was not his intention. And he said he wanted 
to know this information just in case he and Mrs B were to want or need this as an option.
Ive taken on board what Mr R and Mrs B have said that they only took the fixed rate 
because of this incorrect information. But Ive also taken into account that this is their 
recollection now, of what their intentions were in 2017. And this might not fully reflect their 
intentions at the time and may have been influenced by things that have happened since.
Having listened to the call, Mr R was clear that he was interested in a fixed rate, for the 
security that would bring as a result of payments being stable. And this is reiterated as the 
motivation for wanting a new interest rate deal, several times.
Im also conscious that the contents of the recording dont reflect the longer-term plan that 
Mr R has said he and Mrs B had at the time. Mr R said he preferred the mortgage to remain 
on an interest only basis as this meant the payments he was required to make were lower 
and manageable while also giving him the flexibility to make overpayments to reduce the 
capital as he chose. And the only change he was hoping to make was the fixed rate  for 
stability. The option of converting the mortgage to a repayment basis was explored  but 
Halifax felt it was not affordable. Mr R accepted this and in fact indicated he didnt want to 
switch to repayment at that time. Nor did he indicate he and Mrs B intended to revisit this 
later or that they needed this to happen  as he was clear they had other plans for repaying 
the mortgage.
Mr R also said he had no intention to make any other changes to the mortgage in the period 
of the fixed rate. And when the advisor asked questions about the property, he indicated it 
had been recently extended and renovated  indicating he didnt anticipate any need for any 
additional borrowing. And there was no suggestion he was intending to seek additional 
borrowing for any other purpose. The call recording is evidence of what happened at the time and what was discussed. And 
given the contents of the call, on balance I dont think a potential future term extension was 
the driving factor in Mr R and Mrs B taking a new fixed rate. So, although Halifax did provide 
incorrect information, I dont agree that this caused Mr R and Mrs B to do something they 
wouldnt otherwise have done.
Mr R and Mrs B have said that Halifax should refund all of the interest that was charged from 
the point the new deal was agreed as, if incorrect information hadnt been given, they 
couldve taken a repayment mortgage elsewhere. But as Ive explained the option of 
switching to repayment was explored. Halifax said it didnt think this was affordable and Mr R 
indicated it wasnt in fact what he wanted. And Mr R and Mrs B benefited from the fixed 
interest rate for the period the mortgage was held. So, given that, and the fact that I dont 
agree that the incorrect information is what led them to take the fixed interest rate deal, I 
dont agree that Halifax should have to refund the interest charged since 2017.
Mr R and Mrs B have also said the ERC should be waved as they entered into the mortgage 
deal because of the incorrect information given. And when they found out about this 
incorrect information, they felt trapped and needed to move their mortgage elsewhere to 
meet their needs. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont agree the incorrect information is 
why they entered into the contract.
Im also conscious that, what they applied for in 2020, which Halifax didnt agree to, was 
actually further borrowing. Theyve said they always intended to seek further borrowing, but 
it was never guaranteed that Halifax would agree to lend additional money. This would 
always have been subject to the application meeting Halifaxs lending criteria. So, if it was 
always their intention to borrow more, there was always the possibility theyd have to move 
their mortgage to another lender to achieve this.
And although I can understand Mr R and Mrs B were frustrated to find in 2020 that they 
couldnt take additional borrowing and a term extension would not be possible when the 
mortgage was next renewed, they still had roughly ten years left on their mortgage term at 
that time. Halifax was not demanding the mortgage be repaid in full. And I dont think they 
were forced to redeem their mortgage.
Mr R and Mrs B have said it wouldve been unfair for them to be required to put their plans 
on hold because of incorrect information given by Halifax. But I dont see that the information 
provided in 2017 was forcing this. The plans that they couldnt carry out in 2020 were to 
borrow additional money. Which as Ive said, was never guaranteed. Mr R and Mrs Bs 
explanation of their complaint indicates that switching to repayment or extending the term 
were always going to wait for the next renewal. So, I dont agree that Halifax forced them to 
redeem their mortgage.
The mortgage offer was clear that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was repaid 
within the term of the interest rate deal. And Im satisfied that Mr R and Mrs B were aware of 
this when they decided to redeem their mortgage. And redeeming their mortgage was 
ultimately their choice. Halifax has applied the ERC in line with the terms of the agreement it 
made with Mr R and Mrs B. So, taking everything Ive explained into account, I dont think it 
needs to waive this. Halifax offered Mr R and Mrs B £750 for the distress caused by the incorrect information 
provided. But they didnt feel this went far enough. I dont doubt it was upsetting for Mr R and 
Mrs B to find out in 2020, that the information theyd been given in 2017 wasnt correct. But 
Im conscious this didnt cause ongoing distress between 2017 and 2020. It was something 
they became aware of in 2020. Ive taken on board what theyve said about feeling 
compelled to move their mortgage and the inconvenience they were caused by this. But as 
Ive said, I dont think they were forced into this action. And so, while I accept it was 
upsetting to learn of the error made, I think Halifaxs offer is fair.
I understand that £500 was sent to Mr R and Mrs B by cheque in December 2020 with a 
further £250 paid by bank transfer in January 2021. So, on the basis the payment has been 
made, I dont require Halifax to do anymore here. But, in the event Mr R and Mrs B did not 
receive payment, and Halifax is given proof of that, Id expect it to honour the offer it 
previously made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman