DRN-3410238
The complaint
Ms H and Mr S have complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
unreasonably deducted varying sums from their claim for treatment of their dog under their 
pet policy. Theyve also complained that it increased their premium due to the breed of their 
dog. 
Given Mr S has been involved with us throughout for ease of reference I shall just refer to 
him. 
What happened
Mr S young dog became ill with vomiting and diarrhoea and required in patient case from his 
vet. When Mr S vet presented the claim to Casualty, it removed the following from the costs: 
£106.41 for fluid therapy
£37.03 for hospitalization
£92.06 related to supplements
£189.67 in additional premium 
Casualty explained in its final response letter that these costs were removed in accordance 
with the policy terms. It however, agreed that it was wrong to have charged Mr S an 
increased premium and it said it would refund that. Mr S by the time he brought his 
complaint to us this premium refund hadnt happened. 
As Mr S didnt agree with Casualtys reasons for the deductions which he explained at some 
length, he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that Casualty were not reasonable or fair in deducting the 
amounts for fluid therapy and hospitalisation. She thought the deduction for the supplements 
was in line with the policy terms. And obviously since Casualty had already agreed to refund 
the premium increase, she considered that was fair. 
Mr S agreed with the investigators view, but Casualty didnt. So, Mr S complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im uphold this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill now 
explain why. 
First, I want to thank Mr S for the level of detail he provided in his complaint, which I have 
found very useful and clear.
Secondly, I agree that the probiotic supplement prescribed for Mr S dog is covered by the 
policy wording as being excluded from any claim. And I consider the policy is clear that costs 
for food, vitamins or supplements are just not covered. This is because the policy says the 
following:
What is not insured?...
Any costs for food, vitamins or supplements, whether or not prescribed by Your Vet;
Turning now to fluid therapy costs. The policy says the following: 
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: -
Reasonable; and Essential for Your pets health and well-being. We may limit any 
payment to a maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary Treatment, medication and 
dispensing fees.
Casualty explained in its final response letter that these reasonable costs were set at £100 
per 24 hours for fluid therapy and £100 per 24 hours for hospitalisation. And these amounts 
were set by the insurer who did statistical research of what a reasonable fee was. Given vet 
fees change regularly putting definitive amounts of costs in the policy terms couldnt be 
done. 
However, I dont consider this is adequate for several reasons, vet fees do change regularly, 
and not all vets charge the same for the same things either. Some vets in parts of the 
country would have higher outlay on premises for example than in other parts of the country. 
Reasonable is also a wholly subjective term, so given the above what may be reasonable in 
one part of the country might not be reasonable in another. Insurers are required by the 
Financial Conduct Authority to treat all their customers fairly which means treating them all 
the same in similar circumstances and not singling out any individual customer or set of 
customers from others. Casualtys approach here isnt my view ensuring this coherently. 
Casualty also hasnt disclosed its research so it can be analysed coherently. 
So, it hasnt shown me the figure of £100 per 24 hours for fluid is reasonable. The term also 
provides little clarity for the consumer either, given the variation of vet fees and what might 
be charged when like, for Mr S, his dog was very seriously ill for a time. When terms in a 
policy arent clear or indeed reasonable the law requires, they are interpreted in favour of the 
consumer as of course the consumer hasnt drafted the term or required it in the policy.  So 
therefore, I dont consider it was reasonable for Casualty to deduct £106.41 for fluid therapy 
and it should now refund this to Mr S with interest.
Much of the above is also relevant to the hospitalisation costs, too. Additionally, 
hospitalisation isnt defined in the policy either. Here Casualty also referred to the following 
in support of its deductions:
What is not insured  As with all insurance policies, there are exclusions and
conditions that apply to Your coverage. We have listed below the exclusions that 
apply to this section of coverage
Any claim where the cost of a referral consultation exceeds £200 and where
hospitalisation costs exceed £100 per day.
It also explained how it made the deductions from Mr S claim as follows: Hospitalisation over £100 (per 24hrs)  note that we do not cover any claim where
hospitalisation costs exceed £100 per day. As per the broken down invoice we have
received from your vet, these are the items that this relates to and the date that they
were invoiced:
09/09/2021  hospitalisation and nursing - £72.66 & inpatient examination - 
£45.99; total invoiced £118.65 (exceeds cap by £18.65 so we have covered 
£100 only)
10/09/2021 - hospitalisation and nursing - £72.66 & inpatient examination - 
£45.99; total invoiced £118.65 (exceeds cap by £18.65 so we have covered 
£100 only).
 Without any definition of what constitutes hospitalisation, which isnt mention in the definition 
for treatment, the issue becomes even less clear. The policy obviously covers the cost of 
vet fees providing treatment to the ill or injured pet insured. Treatment and vet fees are 
defined as follows:
Treatment  Means any consultation, examination, advice, tests, x-rays, slides,
ultrasound, MRI scans, medication, surgery or nursing care that has taken place and
been recommended and provided by a Vet
Vet Fees Means the fees charged by Your Vet for the medical Treatment of an 
Illness or Accidental Injury.
And under section 1 (Veterinary fees) the terms of policy say:
What is insured?... This section of Your Policy covers Treatment carried out by a Vet 
for treating an Illness or Accidental Injury suffered by Your pet whilst insured with Us.
Like the investigator, I consider this means that treatment includes consultation and 
examination, so there is little reason why the examination costs should be classed as the 
undefined hospitalisation costs and therefore deducted by Casualty. 
Indeed, I consider it is very unclear and confusing, which means it must be construed in the 
consumers favour, so it should refund Mr S the sum of £37.03 also with interest. 
Lastly as it agreed it wrongly increased Mr S premium, if it hasnt done so already, it should 
refund the increase with interest.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to the following:
Refund Ms H and Mr S the sum of £106.41 for fluid therapy and £37.03 for 
hospitalization. Adding interest of 8% simple from the date Ms H and Mr S paid their 
vets for these costs to date of its refund.
If it hasnt already done refund Ms H and Mr S the premium increase of £189.67. 
Also adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date Ms H and Mr S paid the 
increased premium to the date of its refund. 
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Ms H and Mr S for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman