DRN-4001303
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Zopa Bank Ltd is pursuing him for a loan applied for in his name as part of 
a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here. 
In May 2022 Mr W was unfortunately caught up in a crypto investment scam. As part of the 
scam, Mr W provided the broker (the scammer) with personal information to facilitate the 
opening of a crypto exchange account (which Ill refer to here as N). Mr W says the 
scammer then used this information to apply for three loans in his name, one of which was 
with Zopa.
On 20 May 2022 Mr W says the scammer told him £25,000 would be credited into his bank 
account from their profit account, and that this needed to be transferred back to that 
account, via Mr Ws account with N. On the same day, a loan for £25,000 from Zopa was 
paid into Mr Ws bank account. Mr W then transferred all the funds from the loan to N on 
23 May 2022 in three instalments of £5,000, £10,000 and £10,000. Before being processed, 
all three payments flagged with Mr Ws bank as suspicious, and he had several 
conservations with the bank before the payments were released.
On 23 May 2022 a loan was applied for in Mr Ws name from a lender (which Ill refer to here 
as B) for £12,000. The funds were deposited into Mr Ws bank account on the same day 
before he transferred the money, in seven instalments between 24 and 25 May 2022, to his 
account with N. 
On 27 May 2022 the third loan (from a lender Ill refer to here as S) was paid into Mr Ws 
bank account. The loan was for £15,000. That money was then all transferred to N on 
30 May 2022. 
The funds from all three loans are no longer in Mr Ws account with N and has unfortunately 
been lost as part of the scam.
Realising hed been the victim of a scam, Mr W contacted Zopa on 28 May 2022.
Zopa conducted a fraud investigation. In summary, it said Mr W had willingly provided his 
personal details to a third party to facilitate the loan application without carrying out sufficient 
checks. Zopa said the information provided as part of the loan application gave no reason for 
it to believe the application had not been made by Mr W. And that he met all their credit and 
affordability requirements, as well as providing selfie and ID information as part of the 
application security process. Zopa concluded that Mr W was responsible for the loan  
together with the applicable interest, fees and charges. 
Mr W complained to Zopa. He said he shouldnt be responsible for a loan taken out 
fraudulently. He also pointed out that the email used on the loan application was fake and 
his name had been misspelt. 
Zopa didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that as an online company  all its checks are 
done electronically and those checks had all been met in Mr Ws case, including verification 
of the bank account the loan was to be paid into. It added that Mr W was aware the funds 
came from Zopa (showing as a payment on his bank statement from Zopa Ltd and as part of 
the ID checks where the Zopa logo was present) and yet he transferred those funds to a 
third party without carrying out any checks into who Zopa was. Whilst sympathetic to Mr Ws 
situation, Zopa maintained it had done nothing wrong and so he was responsible for 
repaying the loan.  
Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said hed never heard of Zopa 
and if hed known this was a loan, he wouldnt have transferred the funds. Mr W said he had 
no contact from Zopa during the application process nor had he agreed to the terms of the 
loan as he hadnt received the loan agreement. Mr W said he hadnt benefited from the 
money and was now suffering extreme distress and worry at the thought of having to repay 
it. 
On reviewing the case  Zopa agreed to waive the interest, fees and charges on the loan 
because Mr W had been the victim of a scam  but as hed distributed the funds, it still 
required Mr W to repay the principal sum. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and partly upheld it. She was satisfied that he 
didnt apply for the loan (as this was done by the scammer)  and so he shouldnt be liable 
for the interest, fees and charges  nor should the loan be reported on Mr Ws credit file. 
But our Investigator found Mr W shouldve reasonably been aware the funds were from a 
loan  having discussed this with his bank as part of its security checks prior to the funds 
being sent to N. And so, she concluded it was fair for Zopa to pursue Mr W for the principal 
sum. 
Mr W disagreed with our Investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision. He said no one, including his bank, spoke to him about the loan. Mr W said he only 
became aware of the loans from Zopa and B around 28 May 2022  after hed transferred 
all the funds to N. Mr W added that if hed known the funds from Zopa were a loan  the 
loans with B and S wouldnt have happened. 
Zopa also didnt agree with our Investigators opinion that it shouldnt report the loan to 
Mr Ws credit file. It said as it considered him to be responsible for the loan  it would be 
reporting it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partly upholding this complaint. But I agree with our Investigator - and 
for largely the same reasons  that its fair and reasonable for Zopa to pursue Mr W for the 
principal sum of £25,000 if it chooses to do so. I realise this will be very disappointing for 
Mr W and Id like to assure him I havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence  including contact notes and 
phone recordings from Mr Ws bank. Id like to assure Mr W that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I 
believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it 
is here), I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
Mr W has complained to us about the actions of all three lenders (Zopa, B and S). Whilst 
the information relating to B and S form part of the wider surrounding circumstances to 
Mr Ws complaint, to clarify, Im only making findings on the actions of Zopa in this final 
decision. 
Mr W has also mentioned the affordability of the loan. Where a lender is found to have 
irresponsibly lent, this doesnt mean that the borrower automatically has the loan written off. 
Wed usually say that the lender shouldnt profit from their mistake by adding interest, fees or 
charges. But wed normally still say that its fair for the lender to pursue the principal loan 
amount. In this case, Zopa has said it will only pursue the principal amount. So, Im not going 
to consider the affordability of the loan in detail, as Mr W is already in the position he would 
be in, were I to find in his favour for that aspect of his complaint. 
I dont doubt that Mr W has been the victim of a cruel and sophisticated crypto investment 
scam. And Im pleased to see Zopa has now decided not to hold him liable for the interest, 
fees and charges applicable to the loan. But it is saying it will report the loan to Mr Ws credit 
file. 
I agree with our Investigator here that the evidence shows Mr W didnt apply for the loan. 
Mr W had shared his personal details as part of the scam which explains how the scammer 
had those. But the email address used at the time of application wasnt Mr Ws and his name 
was misspelt. So, on balance, I dont think he entered into the loan agreement.
Zopa have already agreed not to add any interest or charges to the loan. But I also dont 
think it is fair for them to report a loan agreement (that Mr W didnt enter into) to the credit 
reference agencies. Zopa should also remove the record of any searches conducted during 
the application process. 
It isnt in dispute that Zopa paid £25,000 into Mr Ws account. And as it isnt seeking to add 
interest, charges or fees to that amount, and Im going to direct it not to report it against 
Mr Ws credit file, all that remains to be decided is whether it is fair for Zopa to pursue that 
amount, should it choose to do so. 
Mr Ws main point is that he says he didnt know the £25,000 was a loan, and if hed known, 
he wouldnt have transferred it to the scammer. 
However, Ive considered the wider circumstances including events after the Zopa loan 
arrived in (and was paid away from) Mr Ws account. And based on this, I think Mr W ought 
to have known, and most likely did know, that the funds from Zopa were a loan, prior to 
paying them away. 
I dont dispute Mr Ws account that the scammer told him the £25,000 was from their profit 
account. I can also accept that seeing Zopa Ltd on his bank statement  with no reference to 
a loan - wouldnt automatically have alerted Mr W to the fact this was a loan. But I can also 
see that the scammer told Mr W to tell the bank, if asked, he knew the funds came from a 
loan that hed taken out. And that the scammer told him the loans would be repaid as part of 
the investment. I think this really ought to have put Mr W on notice that something wasnt 
right. He was being instructed to lie to his bank, and I think this ought to have been a red flag 
to him. There were also numerous interactions between Mr W and his bank prior to the funds being 
paid away. The bank clearly treated the matter seriously and even insisted on Mr W 
attending a branch to answer questions about his outgoing payments. Ive listened to calls 
and read contact notes in relation to these interactions. Whilst the Zopa loan wasnt 
specifically discussed in the calls Ive listened to, the bank notes do refer to it, and I think the 
level of concern expressed by the bank ought to have been a further cause for concern. 
Mr W was also not truthful when his bank was trying to protect him. He said there was no 
broker involved, that hed set up the trading account himself, that hed not provided any 
personal details and that hed researched the investment for a couple months. All of which 
we know to be untrue. So, in these circumstances, I cant fairly say Mr W has acted entirely 
in good faith.
Further to this, Mr Ws main point is that if hed known the Zopa funds were a loan  he 
wouldnt have transferred them. But when S called Mr W prior to putting the loan into his 
account, he told it he had applied for the loan and that it was for home improvements. He 
then subsequently transferred the funds to N. I appreciate that Mr W says he was 
pressured by the scammer into agreeing to the loan with S. But I cant ignore that the action 
he took in relation to this loan completely undermines Mr Ws position that he wouldnt have 
transferred the Zopa funds if hed known they were from a loan.  
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to prevent Zopa from pursuing Mr W for the principal loan amount. 
Putting things right
Given the evidence supports Mr Ws position that he didnt apply for the loan and didnt 
agree to its terms and conditions, Zopa shouldnt apply interest, fees are charges, nor should 
it report the loan to Mr Ws credit file. It also shouldnt pursue him for more than the loan 
amount of £25,000.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld in part. Zopa Bank Ltd should:
 Not pursue Mr W for more than the £25,000 principal loan amount.
 Remove any record of the £25,000 loan from Mr Ws credit file.
 If Mr W has already made repayments towards the loan, the proportion of those 
repayments made up of interest, charges or fees on the loan should be returned to 
Mr W. And for any such refunds, 8% simple interest (yearly) should be added between 
the date Mr W made each payment and the date of reimbursement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman