DRN-1237759
The complaint
Mr C complains about how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) has settled a claim made on his car insurance policy following an accident in February 
2019. Hes unhappy that NFU has agreed to settle the claim on a 50/50 liability basis.
All references to NFU include its agents.
What happened
Mr C was in a car accident in February 2019. He says that the third party was parked in 
between cars. As he was approaching, the third party pulled out and hit his car on the side. 
He says the third party driver is to blame and, if he was in the wrong, he wouldve hit the 
third partys vehicle from the side.
Mr C made a claim to NFU. When considering the claim, NFU received a statement 
supporting Mr Cs version of what happened. It also received an independent statement from 
a witness which supported the third party drivers claim that Mr C was at fault. 
NFU had technicians consider the damage caused but didnt find this to be conclusive 
evidence of either party being at fault. So NFU was left with contradictory statements about 
events with the only independent statement supporting the third party. It didnt think this was 
sufficient to pursue matters in court and so agreed a 50/50 settlement. 
Mr C complained to NFU as he was unhappy with this outcome and felt NFU were choosing 
to side with the third partys version of events. NFU didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint so he 
came to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and explained Mr Cs policy stated it was entitled to 
settle the claim as it saw fit. And that it wasnt our services role to make a decision on 
liability. Instead, it was our role to consider whether NFU had fairly considered everything in 
reaching the decision it had. He thought it had so he didnt uphold his complaint. He did also 
explain that NFU had allowed Mr C to keep his no claims discount and waived his policy 
excess in this matter.
Mr C disagrees. He says the evidence he sent the insurer - a diagram of what happened - 
supports his version of events that it was the third party who was to blame. He also says that 
the third party didnt have a front bumper so it wouldnt have been possible for him to hit it. 
And he says there are problems with the independent statement, such as a difference in the 
colour of the car. This matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
I know that Mr C has very strong views about what happened in the incident and says the 
third party was to blame. Hes also given evidence and submissions which he says support 
his view. But its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only 
a court can consider. What Im deciding here is whether NFU has acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and dealt with the claim fairly when making its own 
decision on liability.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr C that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions which sets out the agreement between 
NFU and Mr C. These allow NFU to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also doesnt 
need Mr Cs approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a payment to a 
third party. NFU also isnt obliged to take a case to court even if its mentioned the possibility 
of doing this or the policy holder wants it to. Its also allowed to consider the potential costs 
and risks of proceeding to court. That might mean it makes a decision the policy holder 
disagrees with, as has happened here.
Taking everything into account, I think NFU investigated matters reasonably. NFU will have 
experience of how courts view such matters, and the likelihood of success in pursuing a 
legal case. It considered the vehicles damage and what each party said. The only 
independent witness supported the third party and their version of events. There wasnt any 
CCTV. And, in the absence of any independent evidence of the actual accident supporting 
Mr Cs version of events, Im not persuaded it was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it 
decided to settle on a 50/50 basis.
I understand Mr C feels very strongly about this and I know he believes the third party to be 
totally at fault for what happened. But, as Ive explained, itd be for a court of law to decide 
liability. What Ive looked at is whether NFU has complied with the policy terms and 
exercised its discretion fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle the case as it has done 
here. And Im satisfied it has. So I wont be asking NFU to do anything further in relation to 
this matter.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. And I know hes mentioned taking the 
matter to court. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute 
with NFU  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman