DRN-4211386
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Target Servicing Limited caused unnecessary delays when they 
wanted to redeem their help to buy loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a flat in September 2017 with the assistance of the help to buy 
scheme. 
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Mr and Mrs Bs property is in England, and they took the loan out with Homes 
England, which was formally known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an 
executive agency and non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for 
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property 
purchase price to the borrower to enable them to buy a home. 
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term which is generally 25 years. But if the property is 
sold before then, it must be repaid on the sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to 
repay the loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold. 
What the borrower must pay back is calculated by reference to the value of the property at 
the time they want to sell it or otherwise repay the shared equity loan. So depending on how 
property prices have changed in the meantime, the borrower may have to pay back more or 
less than the amount they originally borrowed. 
Mr and Mrs B wanted to redeem their help to buy loan and they needed to inform Target of 
their intention to do so  which they did. Mr B said he contacted Target before arranging the 
valuation to find out what was required to redeem the loan. He said that Target told him he 
needed to provide the valuation, a declaration completed by the surveyor and an EWS1 
form. Dr B said he explained to Target that an EWS1 form wasnt required, and he would 
send them a letter from the building developer to confirm this  which he did. 
Mr and Mrs B provided Target with a valuation which was carried out on 21 January 2022 
and the valuation was £360,000. Target noted that there had been a 10% drop in the value 
of the property. They referred this to Homes England on 2 February 2022. Mr and Mrs B had 
three months to redeem the loan before the valuation expired. 
Mr and Mrs B have told us they repeatedly had to chase Target to find out what was going 
on and that on multiple occasions, they found out that documentation hadnt been looked at 
or correctly considered. They said that Target have caused considerable delays which 
meant it took them around 10 months to eventually get agreement to redeem their loan.
Mr and Mrs B have explained theyve incurred additional costs because they werent allowed 
to redeem their loan, so they had to move out and rent another property which was closer to 
their work.  
Mr and Mrs B brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator upheld the complaint and concluded 
that Target did cause some delays and should have let Mr and Mrs B redeem their loan in 
January 2022. But he didnt have enough evidence to say that Mr and Mrs B had the funds 
readily available at the time  in the form of a mortgage offer  which could have meant the 
loan would have been paid off.  The investigator said that without evidence that Mr and Mrs 
B had the funds available, he couldnt say that the delay by Target in accepting the valuation 
caused them financial loss. Thats because even if Target had allowed the redemption to go 
ahead at that time, Mr and Mrs B hadnt shown they had the funds in place to actually repay.
Mr and Mrs B said they had an agreement in principle which showed they would have been 
eligible for more than the full amount of the mortgage and said they couldnt proceed any 
further until they knew the exact amount needed to redeem the loan. They have since 
provided confirmation that they have a mortgage offer from December 2022 which is for the 
full amount they needed to redeem the loan.  
The investigator said that as the mortgage offer was only produced in December 2022, he 
couldnt say that an offer would have been issued in January 2022 when Mr and Mrs B 
wanted to redeem the loan. He explained that this is because the surveyor who had valued 
the property at the time made the following comment:
We have been made aware by the applicants that the property has been on the market for 
some months at £450,000 with no offers and few viewings received. It appears doubts 
regarding the cladding to the block and the fact it faces a busy dual carriageway are factors 
deterring most purchasers. Our current market value reflects recent sales locally and the 
potential for cladding issues. It should be noted numerous flats in this development are being 
marketed and no recent sales in the development available.
The investigator explained that it was reasonable to think that lenders would have the same 
concerns surrounding the property at the time, so he couldnt say that Mr and Mrs B would 
have been offered a mortgage. He also said that he understood the property to have had a 
rating of A3 or B2 which meant lenders might be reluctant to lend and asked Mr and Mrs B if 
any remedial action had been taken on the property within the last year  but Dr B said this 
information was irrelevant and didnt provide it. 
Mr and Mrs B strongly believe that they would have been granted a mortgage offer had 
Target allowed them to redeem the loan from January 2022. And because Target caused 
delays, the mortgage interest rate they are now on is much higher than it would have been 
otherwise. As they disagreed with the investigator, they asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2023. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated entity in administering the loan on behalf of the lender, Target is 
carrying out the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and 
exercising the lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as 
collecting payments the lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must 
do what the lender is required to do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, 
while acting on the lenders behalf. And as a regulated firm it has wider obligations to 
act fairly. 
Although the lender is Homes England, it has appointed Target to act on their behalf 
as  using the description in the loan agreement - its nominated agent. Mr and Mrs B were told to deal with Target at all times and Target was presented as being 
responsible for the management and administration of the loan agreement.
Im satisfied that these are matters I can take into account when deciding whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator 
and as a regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in their own right, Target is 
the appropriate firm to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a 
regulated activity, they have an obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing 
the lenders duties. 
Under the loan terms and conditions, Mr and Mrs B are entitled to redeem the loan at 
any time, either by selling the property or repaying in some other way (such as from 
savings, or by taking further borrowing on the main mortgage). 
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to 
Target as the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a 
qualified surveyor by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in 
settling the redemption figure, and the loan should be repaid within three months 
(extendable to four on application) of the valuation. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs B followed the appropriate process for redeeming their loan 
in January 2022, by notifying Target and then  at Targets request  obtaining an 
independent valuation of their property. 
Mr and Mrs B provided Target with a valuation which was carried out on 21 January 
2022 and the valuation was £360,000. Target noted that there had been a 10% drop 
in the value of the property. They referred this to Homes England on 2 February 
2022. Mr and Mrs B had three months to redeem the loan before the valuation 
expired. 
Target have said that the delays were not caused by them as they had to wait to hear 
back from Homes England and they are not responsible for the delays which meant 
that Mr and Mrs B were unable to redeem their loan when they wanted to. 
Ive already explained above that, in administering Mr and Mrs Bs shared equity loan 
on the lenders behalf, Target is carrying out the regulated activity of debt 
administration. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I take into account 
relevant law, regulation, guidance and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time  as required by our rules. 
I think that Mr and Mrs B did everything necessary to comply with their contractual 
obligations regarding the redemption of the loan. Target told them to appoint their 
own surveyor and they did so. That meant that surveyors valuation was final and 
binding. Target raised concerns because there had been a drop in the value of the 
property, so they referred this to Homes England. But there is nothing in the terms 
and conditions that states this had to happen. The surveyor did make comments 
surrounding the property based on its location, but this didnt mean that Target 
shouldnt have accepted it. 
The surveyor said:
We have been made aware by the applicants that the property has been on the 
market for some months at £450,000 with no offers and few viewings received. It 
appears doubts regarding the cladding to the block and the fact it faces a busy dual 
carriageway are factors deterring most purchasers. Our current market value reflects 
recent sales locally and the potential for cladding issues. It should be noted 
numerous flats in this development are being marketed and no recent sales in the 
development available.Mr and Mrs B were aware of these issues, but they also considered remortgaging in 
order to pay the help to buy loan off  so it wasnt a factor that the property may not 
be able to be sold. 
The surveyor also said: 
We understand from the applicants that there are some suspicions that ACM 
cladding is present and our valuation assumes that when an EWS1 form is gained 
that no significant fire risk exists to the property, that no significant expenditure by the 
leaseholders is required to upgrade fire precautions within the block and that all 
cladding is found to be safe and fitted to current building regulation standards.
An EWS1 form wasnt required in the end as Mr and Mrs B provided Target with a 
letter from the developer which confirms the building has been approved and built 
according with building control and NHBC regulation and has no ACM or MCM 
cladding. Target eventually accepted this letter but were still waiting for Homes 
England to approve the valuation. Mr and Mrs B had to wait a number of months for 
an answer from Target and I have seen several instances where they have been 
chasing Target to find out what was going on. Due to the first valuation expiring, Mr 
and Mrs B were told to pay for another valuation in October 2022  this shouldnt 
have happened as Target should have accepted the first one they were given. 
Having thought about everything thats happened, I dont think Target have treated 
Mr and Mrs B fairly. Mr and Mrs B wanted to redeem their loan and started the 
process in early 2022. Target delayed this process and didnt accept the valuation 
that they submitted in January 2022  in line with their terms and conditions. 
Im satisfied in this case that the valuer was properly appointed in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the loan agreement and the information pack and the 
valuation from January 2022 should have been accepted without the delays that 
were caused. 
Mr and Mrs B have told us that they had spoken to their existing lender and a 
different lender about getting a remortgage or further borrowing to repay the help to 
buy loan. They told us that they had a decision in principle agreed but they didnt 
proceed to obtain a mortgage offer because they were not given a redemption quote 
by Target to enable them to know exactly how much they needed to borrow. 
Before I can find that Mr and Mrs B would have been able to repay in early 2022, I 
have to be satisfied its more likely than not that they would have had the funds 
available to repay the loan either from savings or by borrowing additional money to 
enable them to do so. Mr and Mrs B were relying on borrowing  so a mortgage offer 
would be the best evidence that this was available to them. Mr and Mrs B didnt have 
one  because they didnt want to apply until they knew Target would allow them to 
redeem and how much they would have to pay. In the absence of a mortgage offer, I 
need to think about whether its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B would have been 
able to get a mortgage, and borrow enough, if they had applied. In this case I think 
Mr and Mrs B were more likely than not to have had a mortgage approved. Ill explain 
why.
I have seen evidence that shows that Mr and Mrs B had a decision in principle 
agreed with their existing lender in September 2021  before they approached Target 
to redeem the loan. They have also provided us with evidence of full mortgage 
illustrations for more than the loan itself from a different lender in April 2022. This 
illustration was for a fixed rate of two years at a rate of 2.18%.
Because of the delays, they did not proceed to mortgage offer until Target gave them 
authority to proceed with the redemption  which wasnt until October 2022. Mr and Mrs B have then obtained a mortgage offer for further borrowing with their existing 
lender for the amount of the help to buy loan  but for a higher interest rate. 
Getting a mortgage offer isnt always straightforward. Among other things, a lender 
has to be satisfied that the amount applied for is affordable, and that the property is 
acceptable security for the lending.
Our investigator didnt think it was likely that Mr and Mrs B would have obtained a 
mortgage because of the valuers comments about the property. Ive thought about 
this carefully  and I can see that there are some issues here. The valuer comments 
that there are issues with the property, such as its location, which affect saleability 
and that there had been no successful recent sales in the block. Although its now 
been confirmed that there are no issues with the cladding and an EWS1 isnt 
required, those other issues are still present. Mortgage lenders do take into account 
saleability in considering whether a property is acceptable for mortgage purposes  
since if anything goes wrong, they are dependent on selling the property to recover 
the debt. So I agree with our investigator that a mortgage lender might have 
concerns about lending on this basis.
However, Ive also noted that Mr and Mrs B were in fact able to obtain mortgages 
secured over this property  both when they bought the property, and again in 
December 2022 when they borrowed more money to repay the help to buy loan.
So while I can see that the issues with the property might have made it more difficult 
to obtain a mortgage, given that they actually did so on two other occasions Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have been unlikely to find one in January 2022.
Ive also thought about whether they would have been able to pass an affordability 
assessment at that time. Over the course of the year mortgage interest rates have 
increased significantly and I havent seen anything to suggest that there would have 
been any issues with Mr and Mrs B affording the mortgage at the start of the year  
when rates were much lower. The fact they have managed to obtain a mortgage offer 
in December 2022  when rates are much higher but their circumstances were the 
same  persuades me that they were more likely than not able to get a mortgage 
approved from January 2022 had Target accepted the valuation and agreed for them 
to redeem the loan. 
Im therefore satisfied that if Target had allowed them to redeem in January 2022, its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B would have been able to have raised the 
funds needed to repay through further mortgage borrowing, and would have repaid 
the loan at that time.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs B have told me what they would like in order for Target to put things right 
for them and I have considered what they have said very carefully. 
I think the second valuation fee of £95 should be refunded but I dont agree that the 
first valuation fee or the administration fee should be refunded as these were always 
fees that Mr and Mrs B had to pay for the redemption. But if Target had allowed them 
to redeem based on the first valuation, they wouldnt have needed to pay for the 
second.
I also dont agree that their rental costs should be reimbursed. I understand that they 
had to rent elsewhere due to their jobs. But they werent selling the property in 
January 2022 either. Had things gone right, they would have still had this property  
but with a larger mortgage rather than a smaller mortgage and a help to buy loan  
and would still have been living elsewhere, paying rent. So the rental costs are not 
something thats arisen because of Targets failings. Theyre something Mr and Mrs 
B would always have had to pay anyway. When they first brought their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs B also said they would like 
a 12-month extension of time to secure a mortgage and redeem their loan. But I can 
now see that they have a mortgage offer in place so this is no longer necessary. A 
mortgage has been approved and Target will now allow Mr and Mrs B to redeem the 
loan. 
If the redemption proceeded from the valuation in January 2022, the redemption of 
the loan shouldnt have happened later than April 2022. So in my view its not fair that 
Mr and Mrs B should pay any interest or management fees since then. So Target 
should refund all interest and any management and administration fees paid from 
May 2022 until the date the loan is redeemed. In the event the current redemption 
doesnt go through and the loan remains outstanding, interest and fees will be 
chargeable, and it wouldnt be fair to expect Target to waive them indefinitely. I 
understand redemption is in progress and will happen shortly. Target should refund 
past charges and waive future interest until the end of September 2023 (if the loan is 
not redeemed before then)  whichever comes first.  
I think that Target should cover the difference in the mortgage interest rates that Mr 
and Mrs B are paying. As Ive explained, I think its likely than not that they would 
have been approved for the mortgage in April 2022 (the date of the illustrations) on a 
rate of 2.18%. Mr and Mrs B have told us they are now paying 6.59% instead of the 
2.18% they could have obtained previously. So Target should pay them the 
difference between those two rates for a period of two years from April 2022, as the 
mortgage would have been on a two-year fixed period for the whole mortgage which 
was going to be on the new rate. 
The delay in not being able to redeem the loan and the impact of Target not allowing 
Mr and Mrs B to redeem the loan when they should have, has caused significant 
upset and distress for them over a long period of time. This caused a lot of worry for 
both Mr and Mrs B when this situation didnt have to be so stressful for them. Target 
already agreed to pay £40 for the distress and inconvenience caused and the 
investigator thought that Target should pay an additional £300. I think this amount is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Developments
Mr and Mrs B responded to my provisional decision and accepted what I said. 
Target responded and asked us to forward a copy of the mortgage offer showing that Mr and 
Mrs B are paying 6.59% on their new mortgage so that they can calculate the difference in 
the mortgage payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Target are requesting a copy of the mortgage offer, our investigator contacted Mr and 
Mrs B and asked them to provide it so that we can send it to Target for them to carry out 
their calculations.
Target havent provided any further comments to say that they disagree with my proposed 
outcome. Therefore I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Target Servicing Limited to:Refund the valuation fee of £95 adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from 
the date the fee was paid to the date the payment is made.
Calculate the difference in interest payable on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage of 6.59% 
against the mortgage that Mr and Mrs B would have obtained at 2.18% in April 2022 
until 30 April 2024.  Target should then pay the difference in total interest over that 
period to Mr and Mrs B. This should be calculated for both the help to buy loan and 
the rest of the borrowing that Mr and Mrs B were going to take out in April 2022. 
Although Mr and Mrs B have paid some of this interest already, I do not require 
Target to add simple interest of 8% to this financial loss, since Mr and Mrs B will also 
benefit from having future losses paid up front.
Target should refund all interest and management fees paid by Mr and Mrs B from 1 
May 2022 to date of refund, adding simple annual interest of 8%*running from the 
date each payment was made to the date it is refunded. 
Target should not collect from Mr and Mrs B, or add to the loan balance, further 
interest or management fees until the loan is redeemed or 30 September 2023, 
whichever comes first.
Target should pay Mr and Mrs B £300 (in addition to the £40 they offered) 
compensation. 
Payment of all the above sums should be made within 28 days of the date we notify Target 
that Mr and Mrs B accept the decision if, they do. If payment is not made within 28 days, 
Target should add simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date of this decision to 
date of payment. 
*Target may deduct income tax from the 8% interest elements of my award, as required 
by HMRC. But they should tell Mr and Mrs B what it has deducted so they can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if they are entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman