DRN-3030880
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Mrs B has said the PPI policy was included as part of the store card package, but I 
think AXA made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Bs store card application and 
credit agreement which she applied for 2000. And I can see from the form that Mrs B 
declined the PPI at the time. 
The PPI was added to her store card account in 2002 during a phone call. And from 
what we know about AXAs sales processes and call scripts from around the time of 
the sale, I think it most likely that Mrs B was made aware the policy was optional and 
she chose to take it. And Mrs B had already had use of the store card for just under 
two years by this time, so I dont agree that it was included as part of the package. I 
think Mrs B knew she had a choice about taking it and decided to add it to the store 
card account after being offered it at a later date. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B  so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs B enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B  for 
example she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. 
Mrs B has told us she had two jobs at the time. One of those jobs was for more than 
16 hours per week and the other was for less than 16 hours per work. That means 
that under the policy terms, the second job was unlikely to meet the definition of 
work so had Mrs B lost her main job, shed still be able to make a claim for 
unemployment. And Ive borne in mind that shed in any even still be able to make a 
successful accident or sickness claim if she was unable to work as its likely she 
wouldnt be able to work in either job. 
Mrs B has told us she had excellent employee benefits of 12 months or more pay. 
We did ask Mrs B for more information about this but didnt receive any response and 
in my experience  and without evidence to show otherwise  I think its unlikely she 
would have received the level of sick pay shes told us she was entitled to. 
The policy wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from 
the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs B would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman