DRN-3529377
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the advice she received from Fairstone Financial Management 
Limited (Fairstone) which led to her transferring the benefits from her Defined Benefit 
(DB) pension scheme to a Qualified Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS). 
Mrs M says the advice was unsuitable  for her, which has led to a significant financial loss.
What happened
Mrs M was introduced to Fairstone by an unregulated third-party introducer to discuss her 
pension and retirement needs.
Its not clear whether Fairstone produced a fact-find document to gather information about 
Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives  but it produced a recommendation letter on 
22 June 2015, which amongst other things set out Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives. It 
also recorded Mrs Ms attitude to risk as lowest medium  a score of 4 on a scale of 1 to 10.
The letter went on to advise Mrs M not to transfer her pension benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement. In summary Fairstone said the reasons for this were:
The critical yield or growth rate was too high to justify a transfer to a personal 
pension environment  the fund would be unlikely to achieve enough growth to match 
the benefits provided by Mrs Ms DB scheme
The DB scheme provided a guaranteed benefit and wasnt subject to investment risk, 
whereas a personal pension arrangement would be subject to investment risk - if the 
invested assets fell in value the pension fund and ultimate retirement income would 
reduce.
The death benefits from a personal pension would be based on the fund value and 
dependent on fund performance.
Around the same time as Fairstone advised Mrs M, paperwork provided by Mrs Ms 
representative shows that she received limited advice from a different business  a non-UK 
regulated entity  to invest her pension monies in a range of offshore investments within a 
QROPS. 
Mrs Ms DB scheme benefits were subsequently transferred to a QROPS.
In March 2021 Mrs M complained to Fairstone, via a representative about the advice she 
received. In summary Mrs M said:
Fairstone facilitated the pension transfer  it wouldnt have happened if Fairstone 
hadnt completed a financial advice declaration for the DB scheme trustees.
Fairstone didnt tell Mrs M about the benefits provided by her DB scheme.
Fairstone were paid a fee for the advice by a third party who had an interest in the 
investment of Mrs Ms monies.
Fairstone failed to explain the associated risks of transferring.
Fairstone failed to provide sufficient information to allow Mrs M to make an informed 
decision.
As a result of the above failings, Mrs M has suffered a significant financial loss.
Fairstone didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. In summary it said it recommended Mrs M should 
not transfer her pension  so it did not advise her on the suitability of the receiving product or 
the investment she made. It said its recommendation was suitable because, putting aside 
Mrs Ms other personal and financial circumstances, the critical yield alone was too high 
given Mrs Ms attitude to risk. It said its not disputed that it signed the financial advice 
declaration form, which is a statutory requirement of occupational pension schemes to show 
a consumer has received advice. But it said Fairstones completion of the form does not 
make it responsible for any loss Mrs M might have suffered as a result of advice she might 
have received from another business or if she made her own decision to transfer. It said it 
did not facilitate the transfer.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they said that Fairstone advised Mrs M not to transfer the benefits from her DB 
pension to a personal pension arrangement, which they considered was suitable. They said 
Fairstone was obliged to sign the advice declaration for the DB scheme trustees because it 
did provide Mrs M with advice whether that advice was to transfer or not. They said there 
was no evidence that Fairstone had transacted the business on an insistent client basis and 
no other evidence that it had facilitated the transfer. They said it appeared Mrs M had 
decided to go against Fairstones advice after speaking to another business.
Mr M, through her representative disagreed. In summary she said the advice declaration 
was a key piece of evidence - she says its wording makes it clear a transfer has been 
proposed; she feels that had a transfer not been proposed there was no need to provide the 
declaration to the trustees; and without the consent of Fairstone the transfer could not have 
proceeded. Mrs M says Fairstones advice was based on a cash equivalent transfer value 
which expired on 31 July 2015  yet it signed the advice declaration on 5 November 2015 
knowing the figures would have changed. She says it failed in its duty by not providing up to 
date advice. 
Mrs M says Fairstones records of its advice process are limited  there is no fact find and no 
attitude to risk questionnaire, so it hasnt met the regulators obligations. Mrs M says that she 
did not receive Fairstones suitability letter of June 2015. Despite that she says there are 
many issues with the report  it contains references to esoteric assets and unquoted stocks 
and refers to sophisticated high net worth investors, which Mrs M was clearly not  she was 
unemployed with an income of under £7,000 a year. She says other personal details were 
also missing such as her assets, liabilities and her state of health.
Mrs M went on to suggest that Fairstone effectively agreed to her transferring on an insistent 
client basis because they sanctioned the transfer five months after the advice by signing the 
advice declaration. Overall Mrs M says Fairstone facilitated the transfer, which was not in 
her best interests.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mrs Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as our investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulators position
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that 
its unsuitable. So, Fairstone should only have considered recommending a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Fairstones recommendation
I accept I havent seen all of the advice paperwork I would typically expect to see in this kind 
of scenario  for example I havent seen a fact-find document produced by Fairstone that 
captures Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, which it should have used to determine its 
advice. So I accept things might not have happened entirely as they should have. But it is 
not my role to punish Fairstone for any failings it might have made in its dealings with Mrs M 
 thats the role of the regulator. My role is to determine whether Mrs M has lost out as a 
result of any failings and if so, tell Fairstone how to put things right. 
What I have seen is a copy of Fairstones recommendation letter to Mrs M of 22 June 2015 
in which it set out its advice. Looking at this I can see that Fairstone has recorded some of 
Mrs Ms key circumstances, her objectives and her attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
lowest medium. And importantly under the heading of Recommendation I can see its 
advice was that Mrs M should not transfer from her DB pension scheme to a personal 
arrangement. The primary reason given by Fairstone for reaching this conclusion was 
because the annual growth rate required to match Mrs Ms DB scheme benefits wasnt likely 
achievable given her attitude to investment risk. Fairstone also noted that Mrs Ms DB 
pension provided a guaranteed benefit, which wasnt subject to investment risk.
In my view, the conclusion reached by Fairstone that transferring Mrs Ms DB scheme 
benefits was likely not in her best interests, was reasonable. Mrs Ms DB scheme provided a 
guaranteed escalating pension from age 63. And the information Fairstone recorded at the 
time and relied on, supports the view that it was highly unlikely Mrs M would be better off 
financially in retirement as a result of transferring.
I think Mrs M wouldve reasonably understood Fairstones recommendation and the reasons 
why it had reached its conclusion that she should not transfer away from her DB scheme if 
shed received and read Fairstones recommendation letter. 
I can see that Mrs M says she didnt receive it. But the letter is correctly addressed and in 
my view the majority of correctly addressed mail is delivered safely. So taking everything into 
account, on balance I think its likely that Fairstones recommendation letter was sent and 
received by Mrs M safely.Despite Fairstones recommendation not to transfer, Mrs M ultimately transferred her 
scheme benefits to a QROPS. And I can see that Mrs Ms representative has said that 
Fairstone facilitated the transfer and so it is ultimately responsible for the financial loss 
Mrs M says she has incurred as a result of transferring. In doing so theyve placed great 
weight on the advice declaration Fairstone signed in November 2015. They say Fairstone 
has no records of why it has been signed; they question why it was signed when the advice 
was not to transfer; and they say without it the transfer wouldnt have proceeded. 
I think its important to clarify things here. Since pension freedoms were introduced from 
April 2015, the trustees of any DB scheme with a transfer value of over £30,000 have been 
required under S.48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 to ensure that the member  in this 
case Mrs M - takes independent financial advice. This means the adviser must sign an 
Appropriate Advice Declaration to confirm they gave this advice. And crucially, it doesnt 
matter whether the advice was to transfer or not to transfer, as long as it was given.
So this means that Fairstone was under an obligation to sign the advice declaration in this 
case. Its not disputed that it provided Mrs M with advice about transferring her DB scheme 
benefits. And just because that advice was not to transfer, this doesnt mean it could ignore 
this obligation. I disagree with Mrs Ms representative that the wording of the declaration 
suggests positive advice to transfer was given  this is a standard worded form. I also 
disagree that Fairstone was under a duty to renew its advice because it was being asked to 
sign the declaration five months after giving its advice and knowing that the transfer value 
would have likely changed. As I said above, the declaration was simply a declaration to 
confirm that advice had been given  Fairstone was under no obligation to renew or re-
consider that advice.
So Im satisfied that for these reasons this document in and of itself does not mean Fairstone 
facilitated the transfer of Mrs Ms DB scheme benefits. And Ive seen no other evidence to 
persuade me that it did.
Mrs M and her representative have said that Fairstone transacted the business on an 
insistent client basis. But despite what Mrs M says, the advice declaration referred to above 
is not evidence of this. And Ive seen no other evidence to persuade me things happened on 
an insistent client basis.
Conclusion
Overall Im satisfied Fairstones recommendation to Mrs M was that she should not transfer 
from her DB scheme. I also think its likely Mrs M received that advice in its letter of 
June 2015. By signing the advice declaration for Mrs Ms DB scheme trustees Fairstone was 
simply meeting its obligations to confirm that it had provided Mrs M with advice  it was not 
confirming that it given positive advice to transfer or that this means it facilitated the transfer. 
Ive seen no other evidence to support Fairstones involvement in the transfer of Mrs Ms 
pension, so I dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
In closing - it appears from the evidence Mrs M and her representative have provided that 
another business based outside of the UK might have played a role in the process of Mrs M 
transferring her pension to a QROPS. If Mrs M has concerns about any advice she might 
have received from this business or the information she received, then she should direct 
these concerns to it in the first instance. My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman