DRN-2934993
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled and settled a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged in a collision with another car. Mr C was passed to an accident 
management company, but it assessed his car as a total loss and so it passed the claim 
back to Advantage. Mr C thought his car had been undervalued and so Advantage instructed 
an approved repairer to assess it for repairs. 
The repairer found poorly repaired damage in the same area as the damage from the 
collision. This was confirmed by an independent assessor. And so Advantage decided to 
settle the claim as cash in lieu of repairs. 
Mr C was unhappy with delays in the claim, and that he felt pressured into accepting 
Advantages £1,474.23 cash offer. He thought this wasnt enough to repair his car. He 
wanted Advantage to increase this to the first repair value made, £4,500, and provide him 
with a courtesy car whilst repairs were made. 
Mr C also wanted compensation for the delays, the time hed spent chasing the claim, the 
parts hed already bought, and his stress. Advantage offered Mr C £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by its level of service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantage had justified its decision not to repair the new damage as this would mean 
repairing the old damage as well, and this would be betterment. He thought Advantage was 
only responsible for the new damage and its cash offer was fair and reasonable. He also 
thought Advantages offer of compensation was fair and reasonable for the delays and 
distress caused. 
Mr C replied that he thought he should have been provided with a courtesy car and that the 
assessor had left pen marks on his car. But our investigator explained that a courtesy car 
wasnt provided by the policy terms and conditions unless the repairs were made at 
Advantages approved repairer. And he thought there wasnt evidence that the pen marks 
wouldnt wipe off. 
Mr C remained unhappy that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car. He asked for an 
ombudsmans review and so his complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a frustrating and stressful experience for Mr C. He was 
firstly unhappy with the valuation of his car. Advantage reviewed this and agreed to make 
repairs. But it then decided to offer cash in lieu of repairs due to the previous damage. I can 
see that Mr C was unaware of this earlier damage. And I can see that he was unhappy with 
Advantages final settlement offer which was only for the repairs to his car caused by the 
claim-related collision.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
And I think on this occasion Advantage has justified its decision. This is because it relied on 
the expert engineering evidence provided by its own approved repairer and the independent 
assessor to decide that the recent damage couldnt be repaired without also repairing the 
previous damage. And, as our investigator explained, Advantage is only responsible for the 
claim-related damage. 
If Advantage made the repairs, I think this would lead to betterment as Mr Cs car would then 
be in a better condition than it was before the collision. I can see that Advantage is entitled 
by the policy terms and conditions on page 13 of the policy booklet not to pay for betterment:
Repairs or replacements unrelated to your claim that Improve the condition of your Car
Also, I think it was fair and reasonable for Advantage to rely on the independent assessors 
estimate for repairing the claim-related damage. I cant see any other evidence that it should 
have considered. And so I think its settlement offer to Mr C was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C thought he should have been provided with a courtesy car whilst his repairs were 
made. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
The policys terms and conditions state on page 4:
About the courtesy car service
 You wont be eligible for a courtesy car if your Car is stolen or considered to be a Total
Loss/write-off
 The courtesy car service is only available if you use your Insurers Nominated Repairer
 The courtesy car will be provided by your Insurers Nominated Repairer
 The service is only available while your Car is being repaired
 The courtesy car will usually be a group A vehicle, such as a Ford Ka
Mr Cs car was taken for assessment, but repairs werent made by Advantage. And Mr C 
repaired his car himself, so he didnt use Advantages repairer. I can understand that Mr C 
felt this was unfair as he would have used Advantages repairer, but Advantage provided him 
with cash instead. But I think Advantage wasnt obliged to provide him with a courtesy car as 
this isnt provided by the policy terms and conditions. So I dont require Advantage to 
compensate Mr C for this. 
Mr C was unhappy that the assessor left pen marks on his car and he told Advantage that he 
couldnt wipe them off. But I havent seen that he provided Advantage evidence to show this. 
So I cant say that it acted unfairly by not compensating Mr C for this. 
Advantage did agree that it caused delays in the claim, and I can see that there were two 
weeks of avoidable delays. And Advantage agreed that its level of service could have been 
better. It offered Mr C £150 compensation for this. I think thats in keeping with what Id 
require in similar circumstances. So I think thats fair and reasonable and I dont require 
Advantage to increase this.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman