DRN-2738231
The complaint
Mr O complains about Aberdeen Standard Capitals (ASC) role in the delay in transferring 
his self invested personal pension (SIPP) to a new platform. He says the delay meant his 
fund dropped by over £100,000 for which he would like to be reimbursed.  
What happened
Because Mr O has made complaints about the main three parties involved here, Ive decided 
to refer to them all by name at various points in each complaint to better explain the 
sequence of events, although the outcome of this decision relates to ASCs involvement 
only. 
Mr O had held an existing SIPP with Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) since 
2015, although hed held a personal pension with it since 1984. Mr O had become 
disappointed with the SIPPs performance and so in early 2020 he met with Magus to 
discuss his retirement planning options  which were summarised in a report Magus issued 
to him on 31 January 2020. Magus recommended a transfer of Mr Os existing SIPP to a 
new pension platform and to invest in its own model portfolio containing 60% equities and 
40% fixed interest investments  which Mr O accepted. 
So on 5 February 2020 Magus submitted Mr Os transfer request to the new platform. An 
accompanying covering letter said It is my wish to transfer my pension fund held within the 
above numbered SIPP to (the new platform). Please could you therefore authorise Aberdeen 
Standard Capital to sell down all of the conventional return portfolio to cash to be returned to 
yourselves in anticipation of the transfer. Please can all of the target return portfolio also be 
sold down, wherever possible, and the cash retuned to yourselves. The letter also 
requested that a suspended fund within the SIPP be re-registered to the new platform and 
that any queries should be directed to Magus.
On 10 February a transfer request pack was sent to Standard Life by the new platform and 
this was acknowledged as being received on 13 February 2020. At this time the SIPP was 
valued at £913,440.
Standard Life says the new platform wanted the SEDOL codes of each fund to be included 
in a valuation which was to be returned to the platform. On 28 February 2020 Standard Life 
requested the information from ASC which was provided on 2 March 2020. 
Because Mr O had now discovered that the transfer hadnt taken place he asked Magus to 
chase up matters and, following a progress update request, ASC confirmed that the funds 
could now be sold  but required further confirmation from Magus that the transfer should 
proceed, as the value of the SIPP had fallen to £843,574.55. Magus wasnt prepared to 
provide that confirmation.
But by 23 March 2020 Magus said its position remained unchanged from the time of its 
original request and it was agreed that the SIPP funds would be sold. By 1 April 2020 the 
funds had mainly been realised to a total of £789,492.43. Further cash from sales was 
received during the following week. An application was then made to purchase the new 
funds which completed on 15 April 2020 when the in-specie part of the transfer began. This 
completed on 29 April 2020 and by 21 May 2020 the remaining funds were transferred, and 
the SIPP was closed with a final transfer value of £803,264.75. 
But Mr O had expected the transfer to complete by the original proposed date of 
13 February 2020  when his plan was valued at £913,440. He calculated that hed lost over 
£100,000 and complained to his adviser who then complained to the other two parties 
involved.  
ASC didnt uphold the complaint against it, explaining that it had only received instructions to 
sell the funds from Standard Life on 10 March 2020 and had then been advised by Magus 
not to sell. So it didnt think it was responsible for any delays that might have occurred. 
Mr O believed he had lost out financially because of the delay through no fault of his own so 
he brought complaints about all the parties involved to us.
 
One of our investigators looked into the matter relating to ASC and said this wasnt a 
complaint we should uphold. She said shed listened to a telephone conversation in which 
Magus had asked ASC not to encash the portfolios without its confirmation. She said ASC 
had also chased up Magus for confirmation that it could sell the funds and when this was 
given ASC did in fact sell the portfolios at the earliest opportunity. So she didnt feel that 
ASC had caused any unnecessary delays to the process. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said he couldnt agree that he hadnt suffered a financial loss, and this 
was caused by the delays and misunderstanding between all the parties involved. So, 
although hed been provided with a calculation from Magus that showed he hadnt suffered a 
loss, he remained of the view that the amount of funds transferred was over £110,000 less 
than should have been transferred. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator here, so Ill explain my reasons.
ASC is a discretionary fund manager (DFM) who was responsible for the day to day 
investment strategy of Mr Os SIPP when it was held with Standard Life.  Because of its role 
ASC held all the necessary information and authorisation to make amendments and 
changes to the portfolio that Mr O was invested in. This was why Standard Life requested 
information about the funds from ASC when it wanted to answer the new platform enquiries 
about SEDOL codes and valuations.
  
But having considered the timeline involved, Im not persuaded that ASC caused any delay 
in providing that information. Im satisfied that it provided it just a few days after it was 
requested by Standard Life. Whether or not Standard Life requested the information in an 
appropriately timely manner is the subject of a separate complaint against that business.
But another of ASCs roles was to buy and sell funds as requested. So when, on 10 March 2020 it was asked directly by Magus about the delays to the encashment of the 
saleable assets from Mr Os SIPP  and being unaware of any previous delays, it agreed 
that it would sell the two portfolios before beginning the transfer of the SIPP. 
However, in a telephone conversation with Magus, ASC was told not to sell the assets at 
that time. My understanding is that this was because Magus was concerned with the fall in 
the value of Mr Os SIPP since its original request, and wanted to confirm the position with 
Mr O. Again, this particular point is dealt with in the complaint against that business.
This was confirmed in an email of the same date from ASC to Magus which said, Just to 
confirm, although we have received an instruction from the SIPP Provider to sell down the 
portfolios, we will not sell down these portfolios now, instead we will wait for your instruction 
owing to the recent difficult market conditions. 
So I dont think I can hold ASC responsible for any delays that occurred at this point as its 
role was simply to carry out the instructions it was given  which were to hold fire  until the 
adviser, who was responsible for the overall management of the sale and transfer, had 
confirmed the position with Mr O.  After all, ASC had confirmed the value of the SIPP at this 
time was £866,313.64  which was an overall drop of over 5% of the total plan value 
compared to the value when the original request was made.
I can see that ASC chased up Magus for an instruction to sell on 16 March 2020, although at 
this point the matter had been complicated by Magus registering a complaint on Mr Os 
behalf to all the other parties involved. But by 23 March 2020 ASC confirmed that, although it 
could investigate its part in any complaint, it wouldnt be able to carry out a calculation to 
determine the extent of any loss caused by a delay as Mr O hadnt crystallised his position. 
So Magus confirmed that ASC should continue as per its original request of 
13 February 2020 and the request to sell the assets was made.
I cant see that ASC was responsible for any delay here and Im satisfied that it tried to 
mitigate the position by chasing up the instruction it had been given by Standard Life. And 
Im not persuaded that ASC could have acted differently other than to try to carry out the 
instruction it was given to sell the two portfolios within the SIPP  which Im satisfied it 
ultimately did.
Ive looked carefully at the timeline of events from 23 and 24 March 2020  when the 
portfolios were sold, until the end of May 2020. I havent seen any evidence of a delay to the 
transfer during this time and I think the funds were sold in a timely manner after ASC 
received a final instruction from Magus. And theres no evidence to suggest the in-specie 
part of the transfer was delayed either. I note there hasnt been a suggestion from Mr O that 
he was dissatisfied with the time taken to complete the transfer after it was eventually 
instructed and Im satisfied that it completed in a reasonable timeframe  within what Id 
expect to see in such circumstances. 
The issue that remains is Mr Os concern that his initial instruction to sell the portfolios 
wasnt given until five weeks or so after the request was made to Standard Life  during 
which time the value of the portfolios fell by around 5%. But I havent seen anything to 
support the claim that ASC was responsible for any of this delay. 
I think it acted upon the instructions it was given as the SIPP manager and subsequently 
carried out the transactions within what I believe was a reasonable time span.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Aberdeen Standard Capital.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman