DRN-1845585
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Unum Ltd has declined a claim she made on her employers group 
income protection policy.
What happened
Mrs H is the beneficiary of her employers group income protection policy. In September 
2018 Mrs H became absent from work because she was experiencing symptoms of anxiety 
and depression. After the deferred period on the income protection policy had passed, Mrs H 
claimed on her employers policy. 
Unum assessed the claim to consider whether Mrs H satisfied the policy definition of 
incapacity. This meant they decided whether she had the ability to perform the material and 
substantial duties of her insured occupation. Unum concluded that Mrs H was experiencing 
personal and family stressors but that she wasnt suffering any significant functional 
impairment. Mrs H disagreed and made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Hs complaint. She thought 
the medical evidence was very limited in its commentary on whether Mrs H could do her job, 
including the impact of her condition and medication on this. She said Unum had focused on 
whether Mrs H was experiencing anxiety and depression rather than her ability to do her 
own occupation. So, she recommended Unum obtained further information about Mrs Hs 
capacity to work and reassess the claim. 
Mrs H accepted the investigators findings. Unum didnt agree because they said it was for 
Mrs H to demonstrate that she had a valid claim. They didnt think there was any particular 
reason why the burden of proof should shift to them and said it was for the insurer to decide 
whether the medical evidence supports incapacity. And they said that any evidence gathered 
now would be retrospective rather than contemporaneous. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant FCA regulations include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
The policy terms say that a member is incapacitated if Unum are satisfied they are: 
Unable by reason of their illness or injury to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are not performing any occupation. 
Insured occupation means:
the trade, profession or general role that the member was actively undertaking for 
you immediately prior to incapacity. 
Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint because: 
I think that Mrs H has presented a lot of medical evidence in support of her claim 
including letters from a consultant which support that she was suffering from anxiety 
and/or depression. She was put onto medication and referred to counselling. Her GP 
signed her off with depression. He has subsequently confirmed to Unum that she 
was experiencing depression linked to her life events 
Mrs Hs consultant psychiatrist described her as experiencing a major depressive 
episode in December 2018
Both the consultant and Mrs Hs GP have provided more detail at Unums request 
which confirm their diagnoses of depression. In the circumstances of this case I place 
more weight on this evidence than I do on that of Unums medical officer. I say that 
because Mrs Hs consultant and GP met with her on a number of occasions and 
were both very involved in her care. I think the fact that they introduced, and adapted, 
various medications further supports that they were managing an ongoing condition
I dont think that Unum considered the wider picture in relation to Mrs Hs 
circumstances when handling her claim. Mrs H was dealing with a series of 
extremely stressful circumstances in her personal and family life. So, I can 
understand why Unum wanted to establish the medical diagnoses. But, taking that 
available information together with the medical evidence, I think it would have been 
reasonable to accept that depression and/or anxiety was likely in the circumstances 
and that there was an illness which was likely to satisfy that aspect of the policy 
terms
In such circumstances Id have expected Unum to look to understand how this 
impacted on Mrs Hs ability to do her job. She first became absent in 2018 and her 
ability to do her job wasnt explored with the medical experts at all
As I outlined at the beginning of my decision Unum does have a responsibility to 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and they shouldnt 
reject it unreasonably. I think, in the circumstances of this case Unum didnt look into 
Mrs Hs functionality and it would have been reasonable to explore in more detail 
how her symptoms impacted on her ability to work either with her medical 
professionals, or with an independent medical examinationIve taken into account Unums comments about assessing functionality 
retrospectively. But I think thats the fairest thing to do in the circumstances of this 
case. I say that because, at this stage, I cant come to a conclusion about whether 
Mrs Hs symptoms would mean she couldnt perform the material and substantial 
duties of her insured occupation. So I dont think it is fair to direct Unum to pay the 
claim and I think this is the fairest way forward for both Unum and Mrs H. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Unum to put things right by obtaining further information 
about Mrs Hs capacity to work during the relevant time period and reassess the claim once 
that has been considered.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint and directing Unum Limited to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman