DRN-2245785
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to settle a claim on a shared 
liability basis. Shes also unhappy with AXAs handling of the claim.
What happened
Mrs Ls partner, a named driver, was involved in an incident with another car in February 
2019. Mrs L believed the other driver was at fault. AXA arranged for Mrs Ls car to be 
repaired. Mrs L said that after June 2019 she didnt get any further update from AXA. 
In February 2020 Mrs L said her car insurance was due for renewal and so she shopped 
around for the best price. She was told by another insurer that AXA had recorded a fault 
claim against her. Mrs L said she was surprised to learn this and contacted AXA. 
AXA accepted that it had failed to update Mrs L about the claim since June 2019. For this 
failing, AXA apologised and paid Mrs L £200 compensation. But it said its decision to settle 
the claim on a shared fault basis was correct. 
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with AXAs reply. She said shed asked specific questions which 
hadnt been answered. In March 2020 Mrs L discussed her complaint with an agent at AXA 
and while she felt many of her question had been answered, a couple of days later she 
asked AXA to confirm what had been discussed in writing. AXA said it had replied to Mrs Ls 
complaint and she could ask us to look at matters if she remained unhappy. 
Our investigator thought AXA had reached its decision reasonably and fairly compensated 
Mrs L for its poor service. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She said the crux of her complaint is they want to know why AXA forgot 
about them and didnt inform them of the outcome. And she wanted AXA to explain why the 
information an agent gave them about the third party changed and what led AXA to reach its 
decision. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the incident described by both parties are similar, but each party 
blames the other for the impact. In summary Mrs Ls partner says he was correctly 
proceeding slowly in traffic when the other driver turned into the road in the opposite 
direction, misjudged the turning and came over to Mrs Ls partners side of the road, causing 
the collision.
The other driver said they correctly turned into the road, but that Mrs Ls partner was on his 
side of the road due to a bend in the road, which led to the collision. The location of the 
incident was the same from both parties. 
Mrs L is unhappy that her questions which are important to her havent been answered in 
writing by AXA. 
AXAs file notes show an agent sent Mrs L an email to update her about her claim. This 
email says that the other drivers insurer has made an offer to settle the claim on a 50/50 
shared liability basis. AXA intended to continue to dispute this, but the agent wrote that it 
may settle the claim on this basis if they cant agree. Either way AXA would let Mrs L know. 
Mrs L has focused on the fact that she had a conversation with the same agent in June 2019 
in which she said the other driver had given a different location for the incident. And she 
wants to understand AXAs thoughts and oversight on the mismatch between what was said 
on the phone and later provided in the third partys written statement. 
However, since that conversation, AXA received the other drivers statement and the 
location matched Mrs Ls partners location. The circumstances of the incident also matched 
 other than the fact that each party said the other party caused the collision. So if the other 
driver gave a different location before providing his written statement, I dont think it made a 
material difference to the outcome when AXA considered the claim. The written statement 
would carry more evidential weight than a discussion about the location beforehand. How 
long a party took to provide their statement can vary widely when dealing with disputed 
liability claims. The other driver made no claim for damage to their car, and so this could well 
be a reason why their statement wasnt forthcoming. I appreciate that Mrs L says the delay 
could have been to avoid blame. But AXAs investigation into the claim would reasonably 
focus on the evidence available and what it can likely prove in court. Theres nothing to show 
that AXA formed a view about the discrepancy in the other drivers information. I dont think it 
had any impact on AXAs decision to settle the claim as it did.
Our role is to look at whether an insurer has acted reasonably and if it hasnt, whether its 
done enough to put things right. Email exchanges between the agent and the third party 
insurer show AXA looked to settle the claim as a non fault claim. But as the other drivers 
insurer offered to settle the claim on a shared liability basis, the remaining decision was for 
AXA to pursue the matter in court or settle it on the best terms possible. AXA decided to do 
the latter.
Mrs Ls policy with AXA has a very common term which says it can take over the defence 
and settlement of a claim as it sees fit. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided 
an insurer can show it treated a customer fairly when applying it. 
The term in the policy means that AXA might make a decision that Mrs L doesnt agree with. 
But the policy allows AXA to do this. As there were no independent witnesses to the incident, 
the available evidence was the accounts given by both parties. From what Ive seen, AXA 
reached its decision reasonably based on the available evidence and its right to settle the 
claim on the best terms possible. An insurer can decide its better to settle a claim than risk 
significant costs of going to court if the outcome, in their opinion, is likely to be the same. 
However, AXA should have updated Mrs L when it made a decision about how it was going 
to settle the claim. When Mrs L contacted AXA in February 2020, it promptly apologised for 
its poor service and paid her £200 compensation. 
Mrs L says she didnt seek compensation. She says she wants a coherent explanation of 
how the claim evolved from June 2019. I can understand why Mrs L lost faith in AXA as it 
failed to update her on the claim as it should have and she felt forgotten by AXA. When things go wrong, we look at what the consequences were and what an insurer did to put 
things right. Where distress and inconvenience has been caused, we may recommend an 
award of compensation.
Sometimes a business makes mistakes. AXAs notes show that it identified its failing in the 
handling of the claim by failing to update Mrs L since June 2019. It accepted responsibility 
for this when Mrs L contacted it in February 2020. So Ive looked at what AXA did and I think 
is apology and compensation is fair and reasonable. This is in line with what I would have 
recommended to resolve Mrs Ls complaint.
However, I think it correctly recorded the claim. The industry uses a central database where 
insurers record claims. They use the term fault for claims where the costs of the claim 
couldnt be recovered from a third party. In this case, as the claim was settled on a partial 
fault basis, the claim has correctly been recorded as fault claim in line with industry practice. 
AXA has recently contacted Mrs L to deal with providing a refund for 50% of the excess she 
paid. Mrs L is unhappy with the length of time AXA has taken to deal with this and says this 
supports her concerns about the poor handling of her claim. 
Mrs L is entitled to raise these new concerns with AXA. And if she is unhappy with their 
response, she can bring her concerns to us. As things stand, I cannot make a decision about 
this issue as AXA needs to be given the opportunity to respond to Mrs L if she wishes to 
make a new complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman