DRN-4285967
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (Novuna), following the return of a car under a hire 
agreement.
What happened
On 17 December 2018 Mr S was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with 
Novuna. He paid an advance rental of £3,880.08 and the agreement was for 36 months; with 
monthly rental payments of £646.68. The car was first registered on 26 November 2018, so 
was a few weeks old when it was supplied to Mr S.
Novuna contacted Mr S on 8 November 2021 to let him know the agreement was coming to 
an end on 16 December 2021, and what he needed to do to return the car. He was told that, 
no later than seven to ten days before the end of the agreement, he would need to make 
arrangements for the end of contract inspection to take place, and that collection of the car 
would be three working days after the inspection. Mr S was also advised that collection could 
only take place Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays, and that the inspection and 
collection of the car couldnt take place between 23 December 2021 and 2 January 2022.
Mr S contacted Novuna about returning the car on 23 December 2021. And he was told that, 
as the car was now more than three years old, it couldnt be returned without a valid MOT 
certificate. Mr S had an MOT done on 30 December 2021, at which point the car had done 
10,570 miles, less than the 24,000 allowable under the agreement.
Given the availability for the inspection and collection to take place, and that Mr S was out of 
the country during some of January 2022, the car wasnt collected until 1 February 2022.
Novuna invoiced Mr S for damage to the car that fell outside normal wear and tear, and for 
additional rental for the period 16 December 2021 to 1 February 2022. Mr S disputed the 
damage charges, as he thought the damage to the car was minor; and he thought his liability 
for additional rental should only run until 24 December 2021, as he didnt think it was his 
fault that the car couldnt be collected sooner. He was also unhappy that he had to arrange 
for an MOT on the car and said he hadnt been advised he would need to do this before the 
car was returned. Novuna didnt uphold his complaint and, because the invoices werent 
paid, they recorded this as arrears, and then a default, on his credit file.
Mr S wasnt happy with what had happened, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
On 2 June 2023, an ombudsman issued a decision on Mr Ss complaint, explaining that the 
part of his complaint about the MOT wasnt something we were able to consider, as Mr S 
hadnt raised this with us within six months of Novuna issuing their final complaint response 
about this. However, we were able to consider the rest of Mr Ss complaints.
Our investigator said the car had been independently inspected for any damage that fell 
outside of industry fair wear and tear guidelines. And the pictures taken by the inspector 
showed the damage that Mr S was being charged for, and that this was outside of industry 
guidelines. So, he thought Novuna had acted reasonably by charging Mr S for this.
The investigator also said that Novuna had contacted Mr S and advised him what he would 
need to do to arrange for his car to be collected. And he thought this was in line with the 
agreement Mr S signed. So, he didnt think Novuna were responsible for any delay in the car 
being returned, and theyd acted fairly by charging Mr S for the additional period the car was 
in his possession and available for him to use.
Finally, the investigator thought Novuna were expected to report clear and accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies. And, because Mr S hasnt paid valid invoices, 
then Novuna were reasonable to report this information. So, he didnt think Novuna needed 
to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Novuna didnt give him the opportunity to 
deliver the car to them, despite what it said in the agreement, and had he been given this 
option, I would have delivered it on 2 Jan. So, at the very least, he believes hes been 
overcharged by a month.
Mr S also commented on the need for him to MOT the car, and that it was incumbent on 
Novuna to bring this to his attention and not rely on the terms of the agreement. So, he 
thought this maybe a breach of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 
but was certainly unreasonable.
Finally, Mr S said that hed returned the car with considerably less mileage than the 
agreement allowed, which wouldve increased its value. And, had he exceeded the mileage, 
then he wouldve been charged for this. So, he thought Novuna had received a windfall, and 
natural justice should mean this is taken into consideration when looking at things 
holistically. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it. 
However, before I address the complaint, Id like to address Mr Ss comments about the 
MOT. As explained in my colleagues decision dated 2 June 2023, the MOT isnt something 
were able to look into. As such, and while I appreciate Mr Ss feeling about this, I wont be 
addressing his comments about if/how he was advised about the need for an MOT, or 
whether this makes any part of the agreement potentially unfair.
damage to the carIve seen a copy of the agreement Mr S electronically signed on 6 December 2018. And this 
explained Mr Ss obligation to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be 
responsible for any damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through 
fair wear and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Given this, Im satisfied that Mr S was made reasonably aware of his obligations regarding 
keeping the car in good repair, what standards Novuna would apply on its return, and that Mr 
S would be charged for anything that fell outside of these standards.
The car was independently inspected on 1 February 2022, with Mr S present during the 
inspection. And Mr S is being charged for the following damage, which he disputes is outside 
of normal fair wear and tear guidelines:
Front Alloy Wheel L. Scuffed and rim damage 100mm+. £65
Rear Alloy Wheel R. Scuffed and rim damage 100mm+. £65
Rear Bumper. Scuffed 26-100mm. £75
The BVRLA guidelines state scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim 
and on alloy wheels/wheel hubs are acceptable. However, the inspection photographs show 
damage to the rims of two wheels that exceeds 100mm in each case.
Whats more, the BVRLA guidelines state surface scratches of 25mm or less, where the 
primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable, providing they can be polished out. A 
maximum of four surface scratches on any panel is acceptable. And the inspection 
photographs show two scratches on a body panel, one of which is below 25mm, the other of 
which is in excess of 100mm.
Given the inspection report evidence and the BVRLA guidelines, Im satisfied that Novuna 
acted reasonably by charging Mr S for this damage. And I wont be asking them to reduce or 
remove the damage charges.
additional rental charges
The agreement Mr S signed states once the minimum period has expired the hiring of the 
vehicle may continue for a secondary period unless either you or we give not less than 10 
days prior written notice to terminate the hiring of the Vehicle on the last day of the minimum 
period  During any secondary hire period, you will continue to pay rentals and additional 
service payments at the rates and frequency set out in the Agreement.
Ive seen a copy of the email Novuna sent to Mr S on 18 November 2021. This advised him 
that the original agreement ended on 16 December 2021, and asked him to contact them a 
minimum of 7-10 days before your contract ends i.e. by no later than 7 December 2021, to 
arrange for the car to be inspected and collected. Its not disputed that Mr S didnt do this, 
and the agreement therefore entered a secondary hire period after 16 December 2021. And, 
as per the above, Novuna were entitled to charge Mr S for the time the car was in his 
possession during this secondary hire period.
As the car was more than three years old at the end of the agreement, and as the 
agreement clearly stated that Mr S was required to ensure  statutory testing of the Vehicle 
is caried out i.e. there was a valid MOT certificate, it was reasonable for Novuna to ask for 
this to be in place before the car was returned.Novunas email of 18 November 2021 explained that inspection or collection of the car could 
not take place between 23 December 2021 and 2 January 2022. But Mr S didnt contact 
Novuna to arrange collection until 23 December 2021 and didnt have the MOT completed 
until 30 December 2021. 
Im aware that Mr S said hed have returned the car to Novuna on 2 January 2022, if theyd 
told him where he could take this. But the 18 November 2021 email was clear in the returns 
process that needed to be followed, and that the car would be collected within three working 
days of the inspection. And Mr S hadnt booked in the inspection before the MOT had been 
done. Whats more, 2 January 2022 was a Sunday, and was followed by a public holiday, 
both days on which Novuna had made it clear that inspection/collection couldnt take place.
It's not disputed that, due to the availability of both the inspector and Mr S, the earliest the 
car could be collected was 1 February 2022. And, while Mr S has said he didnt use the car 
between the MOT and collection (although the inspection report showed the car had done 
around 100 more miles than the publicly available MOT record shows), the car was available 
for his use, had he wanted to use it. As such, Im satisfied that Novuna werent responsible 
for the car being collected after the initial term of the agreement had ended, and they are 
therefore able to charge Mr S for the secondary hire period. 
Mr S has said that he did substantially less mileage than was allowed under the agreement, 
and that he wouldve been charged if hed exceeded this. None of which I disagree with. 
However, the mileage allowed under the agreement was a maximum mileage, and not 
something Mr S was required to do. Whats more, theres nothing in the agreement that says 
Mr S would receive a rebate if he did below a certain mileage. As such, I dont think that any 
rebate should be applied because Mr S chose to do less than the maximum mileage 
allowable under the agreement. And I wont be asking Novuna to reduce or waive the 
secondary hire period charge.
reporting to credit file
The agreement Mr S signed is clear that once we have entered into an agreement with you, 
that fact and the details of your payment history may be passed by us to one or more [credit 
reference agencies], who will add this information to the records they hold in your name 
[and] missing payments could have severe consequences and may make obtaining credit 
more difficult. Whats more, Id expect any reasonable person taking out credit to 
understand that any missed payments would be reported and show on their credit file.
Theres nothing in the agreement that separates payments due under the initial agreement, 
secondary hire payments, and/or end of contract damage charges, when it comes to whats 
considered as payments due. As such, if any of these payments are not paid, Novuna have 
the right to report this as arrears to the credit reference agencies, and to register a default if 
any arrears remain outstanding and unpaid. Given this, I dont think Novuna have done 
anything wrong by reporting the conduct of Mr Ss account to the credit reference agencies, 
and I wont be asking them to amend this reporting.
Given all the above, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Im 
satisfied that Novuna have acted fairly. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman