DRN-3591096
The complaint
Ms F complains that Freemans Plc (Freemans) irresponsibly gave her a running account 
credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2016, Ms F applied for a credit account with Freemans. The account was approved and 
the credit limit was set at £200. The credit limit never increased. 
In 2021, Ms F complained to Freemans to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Freemans ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms F didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Freemans will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Ms Fs complaint is that Freemans made credit available that was unaffordable. Freemans 
has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending and that it had regard for 
how the account was being used. Its possible that Freemans failed to make adequate 
checks before providing Ms F with increased credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Freemans to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because the credit limit was very modest. And the payments on it would have 
been very modest. And from the evidence submitted, I have seen insufficient evidence 
that Ms Fs other borrowings would have dissuaded Freemans from offering such a very 
modest amount of credit. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms F to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Freemans to think that the credit it 
provided Ms F was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Freemans could 
see of her management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently 
than it did. 
I know that Ms F will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Ms F to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman