DRN-1911926
 
The complaint
Mr F is complaining about Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Ltd (Cigna) because the 
terms of his life insurance cover were amended in 2007 and he says he wasnt told about 
these changes at the time. If he had been, Mr F says he wouldnt have continued with the 
policy and he wants the premiums hes paid since to be refunded.
What happened
In 1997, Mr F took out a life insurance policy through his credit card provider, which was 
underwritten by Cigna, to pay out on his death. It provided cover of £27,000 for 10 years at a 
monthly cost of £5. This cover was extended in 2007 for a further 10 years at a monthly cost 
of £12 without Mr F needing to provide medical evidence. At this time, the terms of the cover 
were changed, most significantly to exclude claims relating to HIV/AIDS. From 2017, the 
cover was automatically extended each year until Mr F cancelled it in 2019.
Cigna didnt uphold the complaint, saying it sent full details of the amended policy terms to 
Mr F in 2007 so he should have been aware of the changes when cover was extended.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In short, he was satisfied Cigna 
was entitled to change the terms of the cover when it did and that the information it says it 
issued to explain this was sufficiently clear. 
Mr F didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for his case to be reviewed. In 
particular, he says he never agreed to extending his cover or to the changes to the terms in 
2007 and Cigna has no records to prove otherwise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent necessarily tried to address every point Mr F has raised in his correspondence with 
us. Ive instead concentrated on the key issues that I think are central to the outcome of his 
complaint.
The policy was set up for a period of ten years and during that time (up to 2007) it remained 
subject to the original terms. There was an option to extend the policy after ten years and the 
amended terms, with the additional exclusion, applied from this point.
Cigna says it wrote to Mr F in 2007 to tell him the cover was ending and to offer the 
opportunity to extend it for a further ten years without medical evidence and its provided a 
copy of a letter dated 5 March 2007. The letter is correctly addressed, and I think the fact a 
copy has been provided is compelling evidence it was sent, and that Cigna was entitled to 
believe Mr F would receive it. 
The letter says Mr F would need to contact Cigna by telephone to extend his cover. Its not 
clear exactly what happened next. Cigna doesnt have any record of a call from Mr F, but 
thats not necessarily surprising given the length of time thats passed. I note Mr F says he 
didnt call Cigna, but I must consider its possible he may have forgotten doing so as these 
events took place a long time ago. Either way, it seems clear he was aware cover had 
continued beyond the original ten-year term and was happy for it to do so. I think this is 
evidenced by the fact he sent us a copy of a credit card statement from 2009 showing the 
premium being paid.
Rather than the fact that the cover was extended at all, I think the issue at the centre of this 
complaint is the changes that were made to the terms on which it was provided, particularly 
the addition of an exclusion covering claims relating to HIV/AIDS. Ive read what Mr F has 
said about this issue carefully and I understand why its a concern to him. But its ultimately 
for an insurer to decide what it will cover policyholders for and Cigna was entitled to issue 
further cover on the terms it did.
Ive reviewed the policy terms that applied when the policy was extended in 2007 and Im 
satisfied the relevant exclusions were clearly worded under the heading What is not 
covered under this policy?. Cigna says it would have sent a copy of this document to Mr F 
with its March 2007 letter in line with its normal procedure. Its impossible for me to know 
that for certain, but, on balance, I think its more likely than not that it was sent. Its clearly 
unfortunate if Mr F either didnt then receive this information or didnt fully appreciate the 
changes that had been made, but that alone is not enough for me to conclude Cigna did 
something wrong.
Another change to the policy terms that applied from 2007 was that after the next ten-year 
period ended in 2017, cover would automatically be extended each year without Mr F 
needing to confirm his agreement. Cigna has said the terms of cover havent changed since 
2007 and thats why they werent sent to Mr F again in 2017 and 2018.
I understand the reasons why Mr F believes his premiums from 2007 should be refunded, 
but its important to recognise he has been covered since then and Cigna would have been 
expected to pay out on death due to other causes. So, while the cover hes been paying for 
wasnt as comprehensive as he thought, its not true to say hes been paying premiums 
when he wasnt covered at all.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr F and isnt what he was hoping 
to hear. But ultimately, Im satisfied Cigna was entitled to alter the terms of his cover in the 
way it did when it was extended in 2007 and that it appears to have taken appropriate steps 
to make sure he was aware of the changes. I hope the explanation Ive provided helps Mr F 
to at least understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
James Biles
Ombudsman