DRN-2435441
The complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC approved a payment despite not providing up to date 
debit card details to the merchant.
 
What happened
On 13 August 2019 Ms W noticed £110.04 had been debited from her bank account to pay 
for annual breakdown cover. Ms W has explained that the merchant didnt hold up to date 
debit card details so she contacted Lloyds to find out how the payment had been approved. 
Lloyds advised that the debit card details were updated as part of the Visa Account Updater 
(VAU) process. VAU updates expired Visa debit card details when an existing card expires 
where theres a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) in place. 
Ms W complained and asked for details of other CPA arrangements in place. Ms W also 
asked for a replacement debit card and assurances that her details wouldnt be shared again 
as part of the VAU process. Lloyds responded on 24 August 2019 but didnt uphold Ms Ws 
complaint. Lloyds said it couldnt confirm whether there were any other CPAs set up to debit 
Ms Ws current account. Lloyds advised it had acted in line with the account terms and 
explained that the VAU process allows Visa to forward updated debit card details to a 
merchant where a CPA agreement is in place. 
Ms W referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt find anything to show Lloyds had made an error and didnt uphold Ms Ws 
complaint. Ms W asked to appeal and said she felt the VAU process meant she wasnt able 
to control her funds. Ms W said she hadnt given Lloyds permission to update third parties 
with her new card details and that the terms and conditions for her current account didnt 
include information about the VAU process. As Ms W asked to appeal, her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how concerned Ms W is that her new card details were passed to the merchant so 
it could claim the annual fee via a CPA. Ms W has told our investigator that she trusted 
Lloyds to keep her money safe and hadnt given permission for her new card details to be 
shared. I understand Ms Ws concerns, but I havent found that Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
that it has placed her money at risk. Ultimately, Lloyds paid Ms Ws annual fee for the 
recovery service as requested by the merchant as part of a CPA agreement she made. 
When Lloyds responded to Ms Ws complaint it said the VAU process was covered in 
section 8.3 D of its terms. Like Ms W, I wasnt able to find any reference to the CPA or VAU 
processes in the current terms and conditions. I asked Lloyds to explain and it has confirmed 
the VAU process isnt included in its terms as it is a service operated by Visa. 
As the VAU process isnt specifically noted and Ms W has asked on what basis her new card 
details were shared, Ive looked at the account terms to see what provisions are made for 
sharing information. Section O of the terms and conditions talks about how Lloyds processes 
and shares personal information. It says: 
We will use your personal information to provide products and services, manage your 
relationship with us and comply with any laws or regulations we are subject to 
Under Who we share your personal information with it says: 
Your personal information will be shared within Lloyds Banking Group and other companies 
that provide services to you or us, so that we and any other companies in our Group can 
look after your relationship with us. By sharing this information it enables us to better 
understand our customers needs, run accounts and policies, and provide products and 
services efficiently. 
So, whilst I understand Ms W didnt specifically confirm she was happy for her new debit 
card details to be shared with Visa as part of the VAU process, Im satisfied that the account 
terms do allow Lloyds to share private information with other companies (like Visa) in order 
to run the account and provide services. That being said, I agree with Ms W that Lloyds 
reference to what appears to be out of date terms in its final response was confusing. 
Ms W asked Lloyds to confirm whether she has any other CPAs set up to debit her account. 
I also asked Lloyds to confirm whether this information can be provided. Lloyds has told me 
it doesnt have details of CPAs Ms W may have agreed with other businesses so cant say 
whether there are others in place. CPAs are recorded with the merchant or business theyre 
agreed with by a customer, not with Lloyds. I understand Ms W is concerned that other 
CPAs could be impacted by the VAU process, but as Lloyds doesnt hold the information she 
has asked for Im not persuaded its acted unfairly. I havent found that Lloyds request that 
Ms W contact other companies she may have agreed a CPA with was unreasonable.
I also asked Lloyds to confirm whether there is a VAU opt out form or arrangement Ms W 
can use. Lloyds has confirmed that there is no option to withdraw from the VAU process for 
its customers. I understand Ms W has serious concerns about the VAU process and note 
Lloyds has confirmed that if a payment is incorrectly collected a dispute can be raised with 
Visa. Lloyds has also pointed out that if Ms W is concerned about CPAs being claimed, she 
would need to withdraw from any existing arrangements she has in place. 
Lloyds refunded the overdraft charges Ms W incurred as its clear she wasnt expecting the 
subscription payment to debit her account. I understand Ms W feels this shows Lloyds was 
in the wrong, but Im not persuaded thats the case. I think Lloyds refund was a gesture of 
goodwill, intended to help resolve Ms Ws complaint. I also think its reasonable to note 
Ms W says the merchant notified her of its intention to collect its fee around a month before 
the payment went through. Ms W also asked Lloyds not to refund the payment in question so 
there hasnt been a financial loss in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W but I havent found anything to show Lloyds has made an error 
or treated her unfairly. Ms Ws debit card details were correctly updated with Visa using the 
VAU process and the merchant went on to collect an annual fee via the CPA. 
Whilst I understand the process was a shock to Ms W, it worked correctly to ensure her CPA 
was paid. As I havent found Lloyds has made an error and Im satisfied it dealt with Ms Ws 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman