DRN-3943976
The complaint
M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money it lost when it was the victim of a 
scam.
What happened
M is a limited company and, in late 2022, it was looking for additional investment. It received 
a message through a social media platform from someone based in the US who said they 
could offer M a loan. M spoke with this lender and agreed the terms on a loan. The lender 
then told M the loan would need to be insured with a bond and, as M didnt know anyone 
who could supply a bond, they recommended an insurance company they had dealt with 
before.
M then spoke with the insurance company and was told the bond could be arranged, but it 
would need to pay $10,000 up front first. M then made a payment of $10,000 to the bank 
details the insurance company gave it, using its online banking. Unfortunately, we now know 
the lender and the insurance company were scammers.
After M made the payment, it was sent details of the bond by the insurance company and 
forwarded these on to the lender. The lender then said the terms of the loan they could offer 
had changed, so they could only offer a larger loan which would also need a larger bond. M 
spoke with the insurance company again and was told it would need to pay a further $15,000 
for the new bond. M then became suspicious and contacted US authorities, who said the 
insurance company was under investigation or fraud. M then contacted Santander and 
asked that it refund the money it had lost.
Santander investigated but said it had carried out the $10,000 payment in line with Ms 
instructions, and that the correct level of security was used to complete the payment. So it 
didnt agree to refund the money M had lost. M wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, 
so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think the payment M had made 
would have looked particularly unusual or suspicious to Santander, so they didnt think 
Santander had to ask more questions about the payment before making it. They also 
thought Santander had done what it could to recover the money from the bank it was sent to. 
So they didnt think Santander should have to refund the money M lost. M didnt agree with 
our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Santander to refund the money M 
lost. Ill explain why below.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And M 
accepts it made the payment itself using its online banking, albeit with the help of a 
Santander advisor on the phone at the time. So while I recognise that it didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers, M did authorise the payment. And so the starting position in law 
is that it is liable for the payment and Santander doesnt have to refund it.
However, where a customer made a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Santander should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Santander should have identified that M was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of the payment it made.
From looking at the statements for Ms account, this payment was larger than any other 
payment made out of the account in the previous twelve months. But there are a number of 
payments out of the account during this time that I consider to be of similar amounts to this 
payment. There are also a number of times where a large amount is paid into the account 
before a similar amount is paid out, which is what happened here. And there are other 
payments out of the account in foreign currencies. So I dont think this payment will have 
looked particularly unusual or suspicious to Santander, based on Ms previous account 
activity.
The payment was also made out of a business account. And business accounts are often 
used in a different way to personal accounts, with businesses being more likely to make 
occasional large payments out. Banks potential liabilities for failing to follow a customers 
instructions can also be significantly higher for business customers too.
So, taking this all into account, I think its reasonable Santander didnt identify that M was 
potentially at risk of fraud as a result of this payment. And so I think its reasonable that 
Santander didnt ask any further questions or carry out any further checks before making the 
payment.
Ms director, Mr S, has mentioned that he contacted Santander about a potential scam 
earlier in 2022 and said he thinks Santander should have been more alert to M possibly 
falling victim to a scam as a result. But no money was sent or lost as a result of this previous 
scam, so I dont think it means M was more likely to fall victim to a scam or that Santander 
should have carried out further checks here.Ive also considered whether Santander did enough to help M recover the money it had lost, 
once it was made aware of the scam. But Santanders records show it contacted the bank 
the money was sent to on the same day it was told about the scam. And that bank replied 
that there was no money left to return. So Santander has done all wed expect it to do to try 
to recover the money.
I appreciate that M has been the victim of a cruel scam, and the impact this has had on its 
financial situation. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Santander has acted 
unreasonably or that anything we would reasonably expect it to have done would have 
prevented M losing the money. And so I dont think it would be fair to require Santander to 
refund the money M lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman