DRN-3338716
The complaint
Mr M has complained because the documentation issued by Business Insurance Solutions 
Limited (BISL) when he took out a commercial motor insurance policy was incorrect. This 
meant a claim he submitted was declined. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. Weve dealt separately with a 
complaint against the underwriter about the claim, so I wont be making a finding against the 
underwriter in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide if the documentation provided by BISL was clear enough for Mr M to 
know whether he was covered to drive his van on 19 June 2021. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the case should be upheld. I do so for 
the following reasons:
Im satisfied having read everything both parties have submitted that Mr M had no 
reason to believe he wasnt covered to drive on 19 June 2021. The reason I think Mr 
M thought he was on cover on this date, was because the statement of insurance 
from BISL says he was. 
I appreciate that on the policy documentation from the underwriter it says cover will 
end at 23:59 on 18 June 2021. And Ive considered BISLs interpretation of what it 
says on its own documentation and the renewal when it says, the policy will lapse on 
19/06/2021, but would be at 00.01am. 
But this certainly is not clear. Neither the initial documentation nor the renewal from 
BISL specifically stipulates 00:01am. It just says 19th June 2021. Its not Mr Ms 
role to interpret the specifics of this date, or what BISL meant when it set this date. 
And even though the correct time and date is set out later in the initial 
documentation, from the underwriter, Mr M wouldnt have had any reason to go and 
check this or to reconcile the dates throughout the documentation. Mr M took the 
period of cover set out by BISL at face value, and as such he had no reason to 
believe he had no cover to drive on this day.
As this is an error made by BISL it will need to financially compensate Mr M for its 
error as he has lost out due to the underwriter not meeting the claim.
Im also recommending BISL pays compensation for the inconvenience and distress 
Mr M has suffered, including having to pay for repairs himself, and having to worry 
about an impending claim, with no cover and the possible complications associated 
with driving with no insurance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct Business Insurance Solutions 
Limited to:
deal with the claim in full as it wouldve been dealt with by the underwriter as per the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy.  Business Insurance Solutions Limited also 
needs to pay any vouched out of pocket expenses Mr M has had because of its error. 
Business Insurance Solutions Limited should add 8% simple interest to any 
settlement amount from the date of the claim to date of settlement. Im not 
recommending that BISL pay for Mr Ms road tax or insurance as these are costs he 
wouldve had to pay in normal circumstances.
pay £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman