DRN-2070805
The complaint
Mr A complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc has turned down a claim he made on his
home insurance policy.
Mr As represented by his wife, Mrs S.
What happened
Mr A made a claim for a leaking shower. St Andrews turned down the claim because it
thought it was down to failed grouting or sealant, which isnt covered by the policy terms. Mrs
S asked a plumber to inspect the damage. The plumber thought the damage was down to
the shower not being fitted correctly by St Andrews contractor when it was dealing with a
claim back in 2012.
St Andrews asked its contractor to inspect the damage. The contractor didnt agree the leak
was down to poor workmanship on its part. He said it was down to Mr A not applying new
sealant properly. The contractor also said that given the extent of the damage, it couldnt
have been going on since 2012, as the floor wouldve given way. So St Andrews maintained
its decision.
Mr A and Mrs S appointed an independent chartered surveyor to inspect the damage. His
report found the damage was due to faulty workmanship of the part of the contractor. He
found the shower had been installed before the perimeter of the shower tray had been
sealed. He also said there were gaps in the mastic.
Mrs S asked us to look into Mr As complaint. Our investigator sent St Andrews a copy of
the surveyors report for its comments, which was passed on to the contractor. The
contractor disputed the surveyors findings. He said the surveyor hadnt had a chance to look
at the actual shower enclosure because itd been removed prior to their visit. He said none of
the plumbers would fit an enclosure before the shower tray was sealed. He told St Andrews
Mr A and Mrs S had left it too long to maintain the sealant and theyd done it poorly. He also
questioned the independence of the surveyor.
Based on the contractors response, St Andrews still maintained its decision to turn down
the claim.
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint should be upheld. The surveyor had stood by his
expert opinion and the investigator found it persuasive. While he felt St Andrews contractor
had looked at the claim in good faith, he found his opinion less persuasive. So he thought St
Andrews should now pay Mr As claim, meet the cost of the surveyors report and also pay
Mr A £300 compensation for the loss of use of his shower for several months.
St Andrews disagreed. It reiterated that the surveyor hadnt seen the shower in place, so
had simply made assumptions. It said if the shower had been incorrectly installed, it
wouldve failed much sooner. It doubted the veracity of the report. And it said if the
contractor had identified that the original workmanship had been faulty, it wouldve rectified
it.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 July 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought St Andrews had treated Mr A fairly. I said:
Like the investigator, Im not a plumbing or buildings specialist. My role is weigh up the
evidence thats been provided to me by both parties to a dispute and decide what I think the
fair and reasonable outcome should be. Where theres a conflict between the evidence thats
been presented to me, as in this case, I have to decide which piece of evidence I find most
persuasive.
Ive first considered the findings of the independent surveyor. He thought the damage was
down to faulty workmanship on the part of St Andrews. Ive considered his detailed report
carefully. He noted that:
The shower enclosure appears to have been installed before the perimeter of the shower
tray has been sealedPerimeters of shower trays should be sealed in entirely before the
enclosure is installed otherwise leaks will occur at gaps.
The surveyors report also said: Both the outer and inner faces of the shower enclosure
have been sealed with mastic as evidence by residue on the tiles. Only the outer face of the
enclosure should be sealed on tiled wallsSealing the inside can result in trapping of
stagnant water, leaks would be further exacerbated by missing mastic.
He ultimately concluded that he didnt think the leak was down to failed mastic or grout but
was due to the installation of the shower enclosure before the tray was sealed and mastic
being applied to the inner face of the shower.
I appreciate St Andrews doesnt feel the report was entirely independent. Ive seen nothing
to make me think thats the case though or that the surveyor didnt give his professional
opinion based on what he saw. The surveyor had the opportunity to review the contractors
findings and stood by his initial report.
On the other hand, St Andrews contractor felt the damage was down to the failure to
correctly maintain the silicone seals around the water tray and cubicle. He found Mr A and
Mrs S had tried to do this themselves but hadnt done it very well. He also said that if the
damage had been ongoing since the works were done in 2012, it wouldve failed far sooner.
And the moisture readings werent very high. He didnt agree that the damage was down to
faulty workmanship.
Following our investigators assessment, St Andrews sent us further information. It said the
moisture readings were around 30cm from the shower tray. This showed the damage
couldnt have been ongoing for seven years. If the shower tray and enclosure had been
incorrectly installed in 2012, it wouldve failed far sooner (two years after the fitting at most).
It said the floor wouldve likely collapsed and thered have been far more extensive damage
to the lounge wall  including mould. It said that with four people living in the house, each
likely showering every day (a rough estimate of 10,000 times over seven years), water
wouldve been leaking each time. So it said the damage wouldve been far more dramatic.
It also asked a personal claims consultant to review all of the evidence, including the
surveyors report. He pointed out that the surveyor hadnt been able to see the shower tray
and the enclosure in place together. So his assessment had been based on assumptions.
He also felt the surveyors report was contradictory, as hed referred to the floor under the
shower being rotten  but also that the tray was still in place and needed to be removed. He
said the photos showed the mastic and grout were clearly defective.The claims consultant added that if the sealant hadnt been applied between the shower tray
and enclosure in 2012, water wouldve leaked rapidly; been visible rapidly and wouldnt
have waited 7 years to manifest on the floor of the bathroom,. He said sealant application
was never permanent. Weight being put on a shower tray can cause a pull on the sealant 
so it needs to be applied around every two years.
He also referred to evidence from the photos Mrs S had supplied which showed poorly
applied sealant.Sealant buttered against grout joints. They show mould in the enclosure
tracks and grout joints. Overall, he concluded that thered been routine sealant issues over
recent years. And they either hadnt been tackled or had been done poorly. He didnt think it
was evidence of poor workmanship by St Andrews contractor.
I have to weigh up which opinion to place more weight on. This is a very finely balanced
case. I do appreciate the extensive experience the surveyor has in dealing with claims and
Id like to reassure Mr A that Ive considered everything very carefully. But currently, Im
more persuaded by the findings of St Andrews contractor and claims consultant.
Thats because it seems to me that given the shower has been in regular use over the past
seven years; it seems more likely that installation issues wouldve shown up much sooner
than they did. The moisture readings the contractor took dont seem to support that water
was leaking consistently over seven years. Id expect them to be very high after such a
length of time. The claims consultant says if there was a gap between the enclosure and
tray, damage wouldve shown up quickly. And that the floorboards wouldve likely collapsed
if water had been leaking for that length of time. The damage noted to the bathroom simply
doesnt seem consistent with the shower leaking for a seven-year period.
The claims consultant also annotated photos of the damage around the shower. He
highlighted where sealant had been crudely applied to the grout joints and an original bead.
While some of the grout does appear mouldy, the highlighted grout appears fresher than
other grout in the picture. This would support that sealant has been applied to the shower
since 2012.
I appreciate that Mr A and his family have also been without the use of their shower for
several months now. Theyve told us their children are too big to use the bath and so theyve
been having to rely on visiting their family for showers. So I understand my provisional
findings will likely be very frustrating for them. But based on what Ive seen so far, Im more
persuaded by the evidence St Andrews has provided. I dont think its most likely that the
damage was down to faulty workmanship by its contractor. I think its more likely down to the
failure of mastic or sealant, over time. And this simply isnt covered by the terms of Mr As
policy.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider.
Mr A sent me a detailed response explaining why he disagreed with my findings. He sent a 
further report from a further plumber. This put the cause of damage down to the failure to 
properly seal the shower screen. Mr A sent me a video showing the shower and explaining 
the damage. And in summary, he said:
- St Andrews contractors inspection of the shower was very short;
- Hed been concerned about a conflict of interest because the contractor had initially   
installed the shower, but St Andrews had refused to send anyone else out;
- The first plumber to inspect the shower had disassembled it and had found there was 
no sealant around the shower tray between attaching brackets;
- The surveyors findings had supported the first plumbers findings;- The water escaping from the shower had been drips, not a fast-flow and the nature of 
the damage was commensurate with this;
- The family didnt use the shower as much as the PCC had suggested;
- The surveyor didnt feel it was appropriate to damp test on top of a tiled floor  the 
readings would be inaccurate;
- They questioned how the PCC could tell the grouting and mastic were defective from 
photos;
- They had applied sealant to maintain their shower  this didnt mean there wasnt a 
good seal;
- Theres significant water and rotting damage, the true extent of which wont be known 
until the shower tray is removed;
- The water damage is adjacent to where the brackets are;
- Hed welcome St Andrews to visit and carry out a further visit, to carry out a more 
detailed inspection.
We sent a copy of Mr As comments, the video and new plumbers report to St Andrews for 
its comments. It maintained its decision to turn down Mr As claim. Briefly, it said:
- The PCC had considered the leak to be a slow, gradual leak which happened each 
time the shower was used. Where sealant was missing in such a location, water 
could freely drip from the cubicle.
- He didnt see how a shower fitted in July 2012 could be considered defective seven 
years later, with the evidence amounting to sealant residue found on the corner of 
the shower tray away from the corner initially reported as leaking.
- The contractor suggested that the right-hand profile for the shower had been 
removed, but when the damage was first reported, it was the left-hand side.
- The contractors plumber (who viewed the video) said often when you seal corner to 
corner and then fit the cubicle profiles, the silicon behind gets pushed out. To combat 
this, they also seal inside the profiles. This appears to be the case here.
- The wall tiles on the left-hand side are not sound, they are bossed  meaning theres 
water damage behind the tiles.
- The contractor questioned what state the sealant was in when Mr A reapplied it. He 
said once it gets into a poor state, it will never be adequately sealed again unless you 
strip it out and start again.
- The guarantee for the work expired five years ago. The contractor argued there 
should more far more damage in the property if the original installation had been 
faulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr As position, I still think it was fair 
for St Andrews to turn down his claim. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Mr A for his detailed submissions and for the further report hes 
obtained from an independent plumber. While Ive summarised his response to my 
provisional decision, Id like to reassure him that Ive considered everything hes sent me. I 
also wont comment on each and every point Mr A has made  Ive focused on what I think 
are the most important issues.
I accept that both plumbers whove inspected Mr As shower have reached the same 
conclusion  that the damage was down to faulty installation. All three found that the sealant 
hadnt been properly applied when the shower was put in in 2012. Ive considered this very 
carefully, given the basic overall agreement of three experts.But in making my decision, I have to also bear in mind how such a faulty installation 
wouldve manifested itself over a seven-year period. The PCC told us that he didnt visualise 
the water leaking from the shower tray in a fast-flow  hed envisaged the leak as being slow 
and gradual. This ties-in with what Mr A has told us. Even taking a slow drip into account, 
both the PCC and St Andrews contractor still feel its unlikely that the shower couldve been 
leaking for seven years without a far greater amount of damage being caused. Theyd 
expect to see far more damage sustained to the bathroom if the installation had been 
defective from the start. And I find this persuasive. Ive noted that Mr As experts havent 
explained how the damage wouldve manifested itself over this period and why it seemed to 
be limited to 30cm away from the shower tray.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said about the familys shower usage. But even if its 
significantly less than the PCC originally estimated, it still seems to me that the shower 
wouldve been used at least a few thousand times during a seven-year period. And this 
would still likely have resulted in more substantive damage during that time than was seen. 
The PCC also thought this damage wouldve been visible far sooner, if it had been going on 
for such a long time. 
Mr A also says that the surveyor didnt think the moisture readings were likely to be accurate 
due to the readings being taken on top of a tiled floor. Ive considered this  but I cant see 
that the surveyor included any moisture readings in his report and I also cant see that Mr As 
recent plumber did so either. So in the absence of any contradictory expert evidence to 
suggest the moisture levels were higher, or extended further than 30cm, I need to base my 
decision on the readings that were taken. These tend to suggest that its unlikely water had 
been leaking for seven years.
Turning to the condition of the grout, the PCC thought it looked to be in a poor state. Mr A 
has questioned how the PCC could know this from photos. Photos can be a useful source of 
evidence when assessing insurance claims and Ive looked at all of the photo evidence Ive 
seen. Mr A acknowledges that he and Mrs S applied new sealant to maintain their shower 
and I think they did so in good faith. But it seems likely, given the contractors findings, that 
the sealant had already deteriorated and that sealing over the top had meant the new seal 
wasnt watertight.
Its also difficult, after seven years, to be able to attribute which of the mastic and grouting 
was part of the original installation and which has later been applied by Mr A and Mrs S 
when they were maintaining it. The photos do show some rotting and rusting though and 
fresher areas of grout can be identified. Taking into account how the contractor has said it 
fits showers and applies an extra seal inside the shower to combat silicon being pushed out, 
Im still persuaded that the damage was most likely down to the failure of grouting or mastic 
over time. This simply isnt covered by the policy terms.
I appreciate Mr A feels theres a conflict of interest in the way the contractor assessed the 
damage to the shower. The evidence Ive seen suggests St Andrews assessed all of the 
information Mr A provided, together with its own experts opinions, before making a decision 
on this claim. Ive seen nothing to suggest it hasnt done so fairly.
Overall, Ive decided it was fair for St Andrews to turn down Mr As claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman