DRN-3373849
The complaint
Mrs L complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited turned down her private medical 
insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L needed rehabilitation after injuring her leg in a fall. After being discharged from an 
NHS hospital, she was admitted to a rehabilitation clinic (that Ill call Clinic A). 
AXA recognises Clinic A, but only as a rehabilitation unit, not a hospital. 
The policy only covers rehabilitation at Clinic A if it follows an acute brain injury. As Mrs L 
didnt have an acute brain injury, that means her rehabilitation stay in Clinic A wasnt 
covered. 
The policy covers in-patient physiotherapy at a hospital on Mrs Ls specific policy hospital 
list. However, as AXA has pointed out, Clinic A isnt recognised by it as a hospital. That 
means that Mrs Ls in-patient stay there wouldnt be covered under this section of the policy 
either. 
Mrs Ls representative was aware that Mrs Ls stay in Clinic A wouldnt be covered. 
However, he wanted AXA to cover the cost of physiotherapy that was part of Mrs Ls 
rehabilitation. 
The policy only covers treatment by a physiotherapist if the therapist is recognised by AXA. 
AXA explained that Mrs L had £1,000 of outpatient cover with a recognised physiotherapist 
or physiotherapy clinic, however it clarified that Clinic A wasnt recognised with it as a 
physiotherapy clinic. I see that AXA established that the individual therapists working at 
Clinic A also werent recognised. I think it was reasonable for AXA to therefore conclude that 
it wouldnt cover the physiotherapy treatment at Clinic A. 
AXA did find some nearby therapists that it did recognise, and gave details of these to 
Mrs Ls representative, which is what Id expect it to do. I appreciate Mrs L didnt want to 
have physiotherapy on an outpatient basis, and instead wanted to receive this whilst being 
an inpatient at Clinic A.  However, this treatment wasnt covered under the policy and so Im 
satisfied AXA turned down the claim in line with its policy terms. 
Mrs Ls representative thinks that AXA were slow in coming up with clear decisions. 
However, I see that AXA informed him from the outset on 8 December 2020 that it wouldnt 
be able to cover Mrs Ls treatment at Clinic A. There were further discussions between the 
parties as Mrs Ls representative wanted AXA to double check this information, but this 
merely confirmed what AXA had already advised. I dont find that AXA caused any delays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman