DRN-4520306
The complaint
Mr C has a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
(Westerby). Mr C transferred monies from existing pension arrangements into the SIPP and 
the transferred monies were then invested in holdings that havent performed as well as 
hoped.
Mr C has complained about his SIPP and says that hes unhappy with Westerby and that it 
should have completed more checks.
What happened
Westerby has been represented by solicitors for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and the solicitors representing Westerby have made submissions on behalf of 
Westerby at various times. For simplicity, Ive referred to Westerby throughout, whether the 
submissions came directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf.
Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) is a financial advisor firm based in Portugal. In 
December 2013, Abana passported into the UK on an Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) 
branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services passport from 
12 March 2013 to 29 December 2015. This means that during those dates, Abana was an  
EEA-authorised firm and permitted to carry out some regulated activities in the UK.
Mr C says that in 2014 he was visited by Mr F2, a former family friend who said he worked 
for Abana. Mr C says Mr F2 said he could achieve a higher return on his pension than he 
was currently getting. After a further meeting, where Mr C agreed he had a medium attitude 
to risk, the Westerby SIPP was introduced to him.
A Westerby SIPP application form was signed on 14 January 2014. Section 9 of the 
application says Do you have a financial advisor?. This was answered yes and the details 
of Mr F of Abana were added, not Mr F2. It was also instructed that an initial fee of 5% of the 
switched value should be paid to Abana. It was noted in the application form that pension 
monies worth around £54,780 were to be transferred in from an existing personal pension 
plan. The investment strategy was described as via AMI.
Mr C also completed an application form on the same day for an investment platform called 
ePortfolio Solutions, distributed in the UK by a business called Asset Management 
International (AMI). Abana and Mr Fs details were also given in the Financial Adviser 
details section of the application form. And the initial dealing instructions were that his funds 
should be invested equally between the Kijani Commodity Fund (the Kijani Fund) and the 
Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF), both of which were based in Mauritius. 
The SIPP was established on 24 January 2014. On 11 April 2014, £55,257.90 was ultimately 
transferred to the SIPP and a total of £51,329.56 was then invested.
Mr C signed a form on 24 May 2014 confirming that he had received advice from Mr F2 of 
Abana in relation to the Kijani and SAMAIF investments and that his SIPP funds should be 
invested equally between them.
On 11 November 2014, Westerby wrote to Mr C about his investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. It explained that the funds would, following a Policy Statement from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in August 2014, be considered to be non-standard 
assets. It explained that the funds might be higher risk than Mr C originally considered. Its 
letter also said the Mauritian Financial Services Commission (MFSC) had issued 
enforcement orders against companies under which both the Kijani and the SAMAIF funds 
were cells. 
It explained that non-standard assets are often speculative and high risk, and that it only 
permitted such assets where full investment advice had been provided by a regulated 
financial advisor or where the investor was a High Net Worth/Sophisticated or Elective 
Professional Investor. It further explained that the investments might be higher risk than 
Mr C originally considered, and it was therefore imperative that Mr C discuss this with his 
financial advisor.
Westerby strongly urged Mr C to contact his regulated financial advisor, and it provided the 
details for Mr F and Mr G of Abana, and asked Mr C to confirm whether he wanted to 
continue to hold the investments or for Westerby to attempt to sell them.
Mr C tells us that on receipt of this letter, he immediately contacted Mr F2 of Abana, airing 
his concerns. Mr C said Mr F2 assured him there was nothing to worry about and that his 
money was invested in the same fund. So, Mr C signed a form on 14 November 2014 to 
confirm that hed sought financial advice from Mr F of Abana and wished to retain his 
investments in the funds. 
On 23 June 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr C providing an update on the Kijani Fund. The letter 
reminded Mr C that the Kijani and SAMAIF funds were now considered non-standard assets 
and explained:
The Kijani fund was being investigated by auditors. The fund managers had taken 
the decision to liquidate all assets and return client investments within 30 to 60 days.
This information had been given to Westerby by AMI, but it hadnt been able to 
ascertain who made the statement originally.
Some investors had made redemption requests over 90 days ago but not received 
any money. 
The advisor dealing with Abana clients (by this point a Mrs B, not Mr F) had become 
directly authorised with the FCA under a new firm  Abana (FS) Ltd. 
Abana customers were in the process of being novated (moved over) to 
Abana (FS) Ltd.
Again it strongly urged Mr C to contact his regulated financial advisor, (referring, 
I assume, to Abana (FS) Ltd). It didnt however ask Mr C to confirm whether he 
wanted to continue to hold the investments on this occasion.
Westerby then wrote to Mr C again on 17 July 2015 and explained that the licence of the 
administrator of the ePortfolio Solutions platform had been suspended by the MFSC. The 
letter also explained to Mr C that other funds held within his SIPP had also been suspended, 
including the SAMAIF. It was explained towards the end of the letter that:
we recommend that you seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser who 
is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Please be aware that as detailed in our 
accompanying letter Abana FS Limited are not deemed to be suitably independent.
In the accompanying letter Westerby explained that Abana customers werent, in fact, being 
novated to Abana (FS) Ltd. Westerby said it understood the reason for this was that Abana didnt consider Abana (FS) Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice on Mr Cs SIPP. 
Westerby urged Mr C to have his SIPP reviewed immediately by an independent financial 
advisor (IFA) with the necessary permissions. It also said if Mr C had any queries about its 
letter, he should address them to a Mr G of Abana and it provided Mr Gs contact details.
On 23 December 2015 Westerby wrote to Mr C again. The letter said: 
we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss Asset Micro 
Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF) and the Kijani Fund
We have been in correspondence with the new managers of the platform and with Asset 
Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale) request. We 
understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed. 
The illiquid funds within your portfolio cannot be sold at present, and will remain within the 
SIPP EPS account for the time being.
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current value of the liquid 
and illiquid elements of the investment are as follows:
Liquid Funds: £28,003.62 (SAMAIF expected to trade again in February)
Illiquid Funds: £28,357.18 (this is not a true value - please see below)
The letter asked Mr C to contact Westerby if he wished to redeem any of the liquid funds. 
The letter also sets out the redemption timescale for what are described as underlying funds, 
including the TCA Global Credit Fund, the Lucent Strategic Land Fund and the Premier 
Socially Responsible Investment Fund.
 
The letter says the following about SAMAIF:
We have been informed that the suspension on this fund has been lifted, however it is not 
yet active, pending final authority from the Mauritius Financial Services Commission. 
EPS have included the value of this fund in the Liquid Funds referred to above. We have 
been advised that this is because the underlying assets and the value of the fund have been 
verified, and that the fund is expected to begin trading again in February 2016.
Mr C says despite the additional letters he received from Westerby about the status of the 
investments, he was again reassured by Mr F2 not to worry.
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a SIPP 
application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). That final decision has 
been published on our website under DRN7770418. And Ive seen an email on that 
complaint dated 15 April 2016, in which Westerby emailed a consumer and explained that 
holdings in the Kijani and SAMAIF fund were illiquid and that:
Due to the liquidity issues with the funds within the portfolio, the Managed Portfolio was split 
into two - Managed Portfolio S representing the Suspended funds (mostly Kijani) and 
Managed Portfolio L representing the Liquid funds (initially approximately 20% TCA Global 
and 80% SAMAIF). ePortfolio Solutions have advised us that SAMAIF was initially included 
in the Liquid portfolio as it was expected to begin trading again imminently, however this has 
not yet happened.Ive also seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains that 
the re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and 
suggests that work to begin trading is still ongoing. And in its 6 June 2016 submissions to us 
on a separate complaint featuring SAMAIF Westerby said: 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are currently in 
communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable redemptions from the fund, 
however there are no definitive timescales as yet.
Westerby has previously sought to clarify that the quoted wording above, which is taken from 
a letter Westerby sent to us on 6 June 2016, was given by Abana.
In 2017 Mr C complained to Abana about the advice he received. And in 2020 Mr C 
complained, via the Financial Ombudsman, about Westerbys role in the transaction. He said 
Westerby had a duty of care to investors and didnt carry out sufficient due diligence on the 
investment proposition or Abana before accepting it into his SIPP.
In response to Mr Cs complaint, amongst other things, Westerby said that:
All advice was provided by Abana and liability for unsuitable advice to make 
investments should rest with Abana.
Westerby acts as SIPP Trustee and Scheme Administrator, it doesnt and cant 
provide advice on SIPPs or underlying investments.
Westerby doesnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions to provide financial 
advice.
As SIPP Trustee and Scheme Administrator, Westerby has a responsibility to assess 
the acceptability of an investment for inclusion in a SIPP.
While issued after the events complained about, it considers the due diligence it 
undertook on Mr Cs investment was in accordance with the standards detailed in the 
FCAs July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
Arrangements under the Westerby SIPP are strictly member-directed.
At the time Mr Cs SIPP investments were made, there was no reason to conclude 
that they didnt satisfy Westerbys requirements.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed it couldnt undertake any investment purchases or 
redemptions without Mr Cs authority to do so.
It carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. And verified 
that Abana was authorised to operate within the UK under an EEA passport.
Abana is authorised and regulated in Portugal by the Autoridade de Supervisao de 
Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes, formely the Instituto de Seguros de Portugal (ISP).
It verified on the ISPs Register that Abana held passported authorisations into the 
UK for both life (insurance) and non-life activities. It also verified that Abana was 
authorised by the FCA.
It established an Intermediary Terms of Business with Abana.
The Terms of Business included a warranty that the introducer holds, and undertakes 
to maintain, the necessary permissions to advise on SIPPs and the underlying 
investments.
Westerbys standard procedure was to check the Financial Services Register every 
time a SIPP was established and every time advisor remuneration was paid, to verify 
that the introducer remained authorised.
The advice provided to Mr C by Abana has been subject to an independent 
compliance review, carried out by Complete Compliance Support Limited (CCS) 
who concluded that the advice was unsuitable.
Abana has accepted that its liable for the losses suffered as a result of its advice and 
CCS carried out redress calculations.Abanas offer of redress should be enforced, rather than Mr C seeking redress from 
Westerby.
Despite clear warnings from Westerby in November 2014 that funds were likely to be 
high risk, Mr C instructed it to retain existing investments.
It understands that Mr F and Abana advised Mr C and other investors that 
Westerbys November 2014 letter was scaremongering.
Redemptions were being made at that time and had Mr C instructed Westerby to 
request a full redemption, he would likely have been able to recover his entire 
pension fund.
No amount of due diligence that Westerby undertook would have enabled it to 
establish that the Kijani Fund was subject to fraud.
It wrote to Mr C again to inform him that it was possible to make redemptions from 
part of his account on 23 December 2015.
As a result of Mr Cs failure to contact it and complete a redemption form, the 
opportunity to recover approximately half of his fund was lost.
Westerby cant be held liable for Mr Cs decision to invest in the funds, his 
subsequent decision to retain the funds or his failure to return a redemption form to it 
to arrange a redemption when the opportunity arose.
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
As I mentioned above, we issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys 
acceptance of a SIPP application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). 
That final decision has been published on our website under DRN7770418. 
That decision relates to Abana and features the same key point  namely the permissions 
held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and 
Westerbys knowledge of this. Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions on 
that case and some of its recent submissions on this case are made with reference to the 
published decision. 
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant FCA DISP Rules 
and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken into 
account when assessing other similar complaints. 
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review (amongst others) outstanding complaints 
involving Abana  including Mr Cs  and if it wasnt prepared to change its position after 
taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why that 
was the case. Westerby didnt change its position.
The Financial Ombudsman Services investigation
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint. He noted that Mr C said he only ever 
dealt with Mr F2, not Mr F. But the Investigator was satisfied that Mr F2 was working for Mr F 
at the time  this was reflected in the application forms Westerby received, which said Mr F 
was Mr Cs financial adviser, not Mr F2. So, the Investigator was satisfied that the advice 
Mr C received ought to be treated as having been given by Mr F of Abana.
The Investigator said that Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up 
permissions to advise on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and 
taken all the steps available to it to independently verify that Abana had the required 
permissions. And that if Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana 
didnt have the permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required 
permissions. In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good 
industry practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana. Our investigator 
concluded that as Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Cs SIPP application from Abana, it 
was fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr C for his financial loss. 
Westerby didnt agree with the investigators view and, amongst other things, it said that:
The Financial Ombudsman Service had created this complaint out of an existing 
complaint against Abana  this is an abuse of power.
Mr C has brought his complaint too late as it was made more than six years after the 
SIPP was established in January 2014 and more than three years after he became 
aware of the loss to his pension fund.
The Investigators view essentially held Westerby liable for Abanas unsuitable 
advice.
Section 20 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) provides that an 
authorised person acting without permission doesnt make the transaction void or 
unenforceable, and it doesnt give rise to any right of action for breach of statutory 
duty (save for in limited circumstances). This is the opposite approach to someone 
acting without authorisation (as per section 27 of the FSMA).
That primary legislation allows for the voiding of contracts where a party is acting 
without authorisation (section 27), but explicitly removes this provision where an 
authorised party acts outside of their permissions (section 20), demonstrates that 
Parliaments intention was that an authorised party shouldnt be held liable for losses 
flowing from another authorised partys breach of their own requirements. 
It was no part of Westerbys contractual obligations and/or legal obligations (as set 
out in section 20 of the FSMA) to Mr C to investigate the permissions of third-party 
advisors.
Its previously requested, amongst other things, disclosure of the details of the 
contact at the FCA with whom this service communicated; records of such 
communications; file notes or attendance notes; details of the FCA contacts role at 
the FCA; whether the FCA contact was dealing with the Register in 2013; and what 
the FCA contacts understanding of the Register in 2013 is based upon. Westerby 
has highlighted in previous submissions to this service that its only been provided 
with the FCAs response thats referred to in the published decision and its not 
received the further disclosure its requested. 
Submissions its made havent been fully addressed.
It took all reasonable steps to verify Abanas permissions.
It disagrees that Abana not holding the relevant permissions would have been a 
matter of public record. The FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not 
what was missing from it. And the FCA cannot provide any more information than 
that which is provided on the Register.
There have been various criticisms of the FCA Register over the years, and it may on 
occasion have contained errors.
Abana had confirmed orally and in writing that it had the necessary permissions and 
it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on this.
It disagrees that the Written Agreement was vague and generic in nature. The term 
permissions encompasses top-up permissions. And its unrealistic to consider that 
any change of wording would have caused Abana to not provide the undertaking. 
During the changeover from the Financial Services Authority (FSA) to the FCA, the 
FSA allowed a further twelve months for firms to alter their paperwork, including 
agreements, letterheads and business cards. The date of the Written Agreement falls 
under this time period. The investigators view downplays the extent and thoroughness of the due diligence 
it performed. It met with Abanas representatives and obtained information from 
them. Abanas representatives had good technical knowledge and confirmed that 
Abana had the correct permissions.
It was reasonable to rely on the information provided by Abana in writing, together 
with Westerbys meetings with Abana and the due diligence performed. 
Before accepting applications, it checked the FCA Register and the permissions 
page, the latter was blank.
It checked the Portuguese Register, this explained that Abana was authorised to 
advise on life and non-life, the latter Westerby understood meant investments and 
pensions.
Much later, independent consultants appointed by the FCA also spoke to the 
Portuguese Regulator and were told that Abana was authorised to advise on pension 
products. If Westerby had contacted the Portuguese regulator, it would have been 
told the same.
If it was impossible to verify the permissions through the FCA Register, and also a 
regulatory requirement to reject the business on these grounds, it would make it 
impossible for an EEA-passported firm to do any business other than the default 
business allowed by their passport regardless of any top-up permissions held. This 
may be construed as favouring local firms by the back door and might possibly be 
unlawful under EU law.
Westerby undertook due diligence before accepting the introductions from Abana in 
accordance with the guidance.
Abana was adamant that it had the correct permissions, presented itself as 
knowledgeable and professional and at no time did it present any reason to doubt its 
credibility.
This service hasnt considered properly the application of COBS 2.4.6R (and COBS 
2.4.8 G).
Westerby provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FSA and later the 
FCA, those organisations were aware through the reports that Abana was introducing 
business to Westerby. And in 2015 Westerby was in contact with the FCA about 
Abana. On these occasions the FCA didnt raise any issues or allegations to 
Westerby about a breach of Westerbys duties and obligations.
Abanas actions were more serious than any alleged failures by Westerby.
Its important that this service doesnt overlook the gravity of Abanas wrongdoing, 
when considering this complaint against Westerby and the issue of apportionment. 
Abana has now ceased to trade and it seems that the insolvency of Abana (and 
possibly the lack of insurance cover) has influenced the conclusion that Westerby 
should compensate Mr C fully for his losses.
In a previous decision, a different ombudsman did deal with the apportionment issue 
where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions. 
The decision made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and the advisor on 
a 50/50 basis. 
It has requested a copy of the details of the outcome of this services investigation of 
Mr Cs complaint against Abana.
Any complaint against Abana ought to be decided first, or at the same time, as the 
complaint against Westerby.
Abanas clients, including Mr C, were offered redress by Abana and Mr C isnt 
entitled to be compensated for his losses twice.
Had it uncovered that Abana didnt have the relevant permissions, it would have 
declined all business from Abana from the outset, and would never have received Mr 
Cs application or have been in a position to highlight Abanas lack of permissions.
It wouldnt have been at liberty to contact investors directly to tell them why their 
application was refused.If it had rejected Mr Cs application, Abana would have re-applied on behalf of Mr C 
to another SIPP provider that Abana was using and that SIPP provider would have 
accepted the application.
This service needs to give true weighting to the fact that Abanas clients trusted its 
advice.
Having been ordered by the FCA to pay full redress to its client, Abana then refused 
to do so. Little/nothing was done to enforce awards made against Abana for redress 
to investors on similar complaints before Abana ceased to trade. Losses caused by 
the apparent failings of other authorities shouldnt rest with Westerby.
Following its November 2014 letter, any investor would have sought independent 
financial advice or made some reasonable enquiries. 
Mr Cs 14 November 2014 instruction to retain his funds, re-confirmed his 
acceptance of the risk of the loss of his funds which has now materialised.
Mr C did not make a redemption request following Westerbys warning in 
November 2014. Had he done so he wouldve been able to recover 100% of his 
pension funds.
Whether or not there was a reference in Westerbys letter in November 2014 to Mr C 
to seek advice from Abana is an irrelevant point and had no bearing on the outcome 
as Mr C would have reverted to his existing advisor, regardless of the reference to 
Abana in Westerbys letter.
The investigators view fails to take proper account of Mr Cs failure to mitigate his 
losses.
By concluding that it wasnt reasonable for Mr C to take some action after its letters, 
this service is effectively deciding that Westerby was always liable for any 
subsequent losses irrespective of the duty on Mr C to mitigate his losses. 
Westerby ought to be provided with a copy of the relevant information that the 
investigator has relied upon in reaching their view.
The application form for the SIPP would have been downloaded by Abana and 
completed by it with Mr C. Only after this was it sent to Westerby and processed in 
January 2014. Westerby had no contact with Mr C.
Originally, Abana put its clients into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds directly.
Later on, Mr F of Abana made arrangements (without Westerbys authority) for the 
funds to be placed into the EPS Managed Fund  a Special Purpose Vehicle 
(SPV) which essentially acted as a fund of funds, comprised of the Kijani, SAMAIF 
and the TCA Global funds.
When ePortfolio Solutions started trading again, they split the funds into two 
portfolios  Managed Portfolio S containing the Kijani Fund, and Managed Portfolio L 
containing SAMAIF and TCA Global funds (S standing for Suspended, and L for 
Liquid)
SAMAIF was included in Portfolio L as it was expected to begin trading again.
Redemptions from this fund were made by the managers selling TCA Global  hence 
they were able to make redemptions initially, but TCA Global was ultimately depleted 
(it had effectively been used to subsidise the early redemption requests in the 
expectation that SAMAIF would begin trading again  a decision by the SPV 
managers that Westerby had no control over).
Westerby does not accept that the proposed investments were an unusual 
proposition. The AMI investments were trading on a recognised exchange, were 
redeemable within 30 days and were regulated by the Mauritius Financial Services 
Register. They qualified as standard investments according to FCA definitions.
Other submissions from WesterbyIve carefully considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this 
complaint. This includes further submissions its made following on from the published 
decision. Amongst other things, Westerby has said: 
A number of points raised havent been addressed by this service.
The published decision confirms we contacted the FCA about whether top-up 
permissions appear on the FCA Register and that the FCA confirmed that top up 
permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in 2013.
Theres been no disclosure of: the details of the contact at the FCA with whom this 
service communicated; records of such communications; file notes or attendance 
notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA contact was 
dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA contacts understanding of the 
Register in 2013 is based upon. This service should provide full disclosure of this 
information. Not to do so is procedurally unfair.
An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 isnt proof of what was 
actually on the Register at the relevant time. 
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the Terms of Business agreement 
that Abana had the necessary permissions. Further, it doesnt accept that it ought to 
have been reasonably aware of cause to have questioned the accuracy of the 
statement in the Agreement. 
The published decision concedes that information which wasnt available on the 
Register wouldnt have been provided to Westerby by the FCA if it wasnt already on 
the Register. But the published decision also says that if Westerby had contacted the 
FCA directly the FCA would have been able to confirm Abanas permissions. No 
information has been provided about this and the FCAs position generally. 
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. And, in response, the 
FCA confirmed that in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad 
permissions held under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance 
mediation or reinsurance mediation and that there was no requirement under the IMD 
to display more detailed activities. Any further information not displayed on the 
Register would have been considered confidential information under Section 348 of 
the FSMA which prohibits disclosure of this information. 
In the published decision the ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was offering an 
advisory service. Its unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacts on the 
scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It was no part of Westerbys 
contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of third-party advisors. 
In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides: Where a complainant makes a complaint against more than one 
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine 
that the respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that 
the Ombudsman considers appropriate.
The ombudsman failed to assess apportionment and causation. 
Despite a related complaint about the actions of Abana, in the published decision the 
ombudsman decided that Westerby should compensate the consumer for the full 
extent of his financial losses. 
Abana has ceased trading and closed, as such any indemnity from Abana and/or 
assignment of any action against it would now be worthless.
Complaints made against Abana to this service ought to have been decided first, or 
at least at the same time as complaints against Westerby. This service dealing with 
the complaint against Westerby first has led to the failure to address the issue of 
apportionment. This service has found against Abana in a number of complaints involving a different 
SIPP operator, and ordered Abana to pay redress yet we havent pursued, or invited 
the complainants to pursue, the SIPP operator.
Westerby has also made a number of other submissions to us previously, some in this 
complaint and others in separate complaints featuring Abana and the same key point  
namely the permissions held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal 
pensions in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this. These submissions include that:
GEN 4 Annex 1 states that an incoming (EEA) firm must make details of the extent of 
its permissions clear on request. This shows that the FCA directs that the firm should 
confirm its permissions. Its Terms of Business provided for such a request and 
effectively formalised this disclosure through a signed agreement.
The FSMA acknowledges that theres a general principle that consumers should take 
responsibility for their decisions, a principle which the FCA should have regard to 
when considering consumer protection. This service is part of the consumer 
protection provisions under the FSMA; it follows that we must similarly have regard to 
this principle. Theres a clear intention in law that consumers have a level of 
responsibility. And this service has issued other decisions which take account of a 
consumers failure to take action to mitigate their losses.
Its due diligence wasnt simply a check of the Register. Its Chairman and Compliance 
Oversight was present at several face to face meetings with Abana's advisor and 
Compliance Director. And he was thorough in his "testing" of their processes and due 
diligence. 
This culminated in Westerby establishing a legal document  the Terms of Business 
 in which Abana warranted that it had the required permissions to introduce the 
SIPP. Abana therefore effectively "defrauded" it.
Its able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. This isnt something it 
has done, but its acceptable to the FCA.
It doesnt hold a copy of the "Permission" page for Abana.  
Its been able to retrieve archived copies of the page for other passported firms from 
the relevant time period. In every case the Permission page simply shows "No 
matches found".
The "Basic Details" page of Abana's Register entry included a field labelled 
"Undertakes Insurance Mediation", but the field was left blank; for UK firms it was 
always completed. 
Westerbys argument isnt that there werent other sections of the Register, rather its 
that Abanas permissions couldnt be determined from the Register due to the limited 
information available. In other words, Westerby doesnt accept that, at the relevant 
time (when the online Register was viewed in 2013), that there was information 
regarding permissions available or accessible by an online user.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 9 October 2023 and I concluded Mr Cs 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, I said that:
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise 
on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps 
available to it to independently verify that Abana had the required permissions.
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana didnt have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in 
the UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions.
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good 
industry practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana.
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of the business. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Cs 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence 
to be carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to 
be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK.
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the 
points Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Cs 
application from Abana.
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold Westerby 
accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory obligations and 
to treat Mr C fairly. And its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to 
compensate Mr C to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings.
Westerby didnt accept my provisional findings and said, amongst other things, that:
It was disappointed with my proposed findings in respect of the Financial 
Ombudsman Services jurisdiction to consider the complaint and it considered that 
I had misdirected myself and had failed to have sufficient regard to S14A of the 
Limitation Act 1980.
I was rightly of the view that Mr C ought reasonably to have become aware there was 
a problem that had caused him some loss or damage on receipt of Westerbys letter 
of 17 July 2015. But my conclusion that Mr C would not have realised that Westerby 
had a causative role in the loss was inconsistent with S14A(10).
S14A(10) provides that knowledge includes knowledge Mr C might reasonably be 
expected to acquire from the facts observable or ascertainable by him and from the 
facts ascertainable with the help of appropriate expert advice which it would be 
reasonable for him to seek.
There is no good reason why Mr C didnt seek expert advice in the circumstances.
Mr C engaged with a new financial adviser, Firm J, in February 2017 and Westerby 
wrote to Firm J providing a full update on the position of Mr Cs pension and 
investments. Westerby assumes that armed with this information, and what was 
available in the public domain, that Firm J wouldve advised Mr C of the position and 
any steps he could take to protect himself, including consideration of the involvement 
of Westerby. This was not a point that should be ignored.
It isnt clear what changed between 2015 and April 2020 which caused Mr C to 
consider that Westerby may be at fault.
Mr C ought reasonably to have made his complaint well before April 2020. And as 
such, it should be time-barred.
Despite repeated requests, it has not been provided with the information it had 
requested about the enquiries made of the FCA and response provided (in relation to 
Abanas permissions on the FSA register). This should be provided in the interests of 
transparency.
I asked Mr C and Firm J for information in order to consider Westerbys jurisdiction 
arguments further.
Firm J responded providing details of the contact it had with Mr C in 2017. It explained Mr C 
had approached it after he became aware that he may be receiving compensation as a 
result of CCSs investigation into the advice hed received from Abana. Firm J explained it 
had made some enquiries about whether Mr C could transfer any proposed compensation 
out of the SIPP but ultimately Mr C didnt engage with it further, beyond providing it with his 
initial authority to contact Westerby and CCS for information. Firm J confirmed it didnt 
provide Mr C with any advice or recommendations; its contact with Mr C was brief.Mr C explained he didnt recall any discussions with Firm J. And hed been prompted to 
complain about Westerby after a phone call he had with it in 2017. Mr C said he thought that 
there was around £5,000 left available in his SIPP. So, he asked if this could be reinvested 
in an alternative fund, but was told this money had since disappeared. Mr C says he was 
unhappy with this, asking why Westerby had allowed this to happen given what had 
happened to the rest of his funds. He said Westerby told him it wasnt its role to look after 
the investment, that was his financial advisers responsibility. Mr C said this prompted him to 
complain about Westerby as he felt they also owed him a duty of care and had fallen short. 
I asked Westerby for records of any contact it had with Mr C about his SIPP from 2015 to 
2020. Westerby responded, providing a copy of a telephone call record which gave details of 
a call Mr C had made to it in November 2017. The call note refers to Mr Cs belief that he 
had around £4,500 available in his SIPP. However, the Westerby agent told him that the 
funds were all suspended and all he had left was around £325 in the SIPP bank account.
As both sides have responded to my provisional decision and my additional queries, Im now 
providing my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Ive reconsidered whether we can consider Mr Cs complaint. The time limits for bringing a 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service are set out in the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) section of the FCA Handbook, and I make this decision having full regard to 
Westerbys submission in regard to S.14A of the Limitation Act 1980.
Six-and-three year rule
The section of the rules that applies to this complaint means that, unless Westerby consents, 
we cant look into this complaint if its been brought:
more than six years after the event complained of;
or, if later, more than three years after Mr C was aware  or ought reasonably to 
have become aware  he had cause for complaint;
- unless the complaint was brought within the time limits, and theres a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of it having been received; or
- unless, in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Westerby says that Mr Cs complaint was raised outside of these time limits and it doesnt 
consent to us considering it. Westerby says that Mr C made his complaint, via the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, in April 2020. Mr C had previously made a complaint about the advice 
he received from Abana, but his later complaint about Westerby was that it didnt undertake 
sufficient due diligence on the introducer, Abana, or the Kijani and SAMAIF investments he 
made through his Westerby SIPP. This complaint was communicated to us by Mr C on 
1 April 2020.  
Mr C applied for the SIPP on 14 January 2014 and it was established on 24 January 2014. 
Although the monies were transferred into the Westerby SIPP from Mr Cs existing pension 
provider on 11 April 2014 and invested in the Kijani and SAMAIF funds after this, I think that 
the event Mr C complains of took place in January 2014. Thats because he says that Westerby should have conducted further checks on Abana, and had it done so, it wouldnt 
have gone on to accept his application for the SIPP or made the investments. This took 
place more than six years before Mr C had referred his complaint to either Westerby or us in 
April 2020.
So, Ive also gone on to consider whether Mr C referred his complaint more than three years 
from the date on which he either was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, he 
had cause for complaint. And when I say here cause for complaint, I mean cause to make 
this complaint about this respondent firm, Westerby, not just knowledge of cause to complain 
about anyone at all.
Westerby wrote to Mr C at several points during 2014, 2015 and 2016. Westerby asserts 
that it is the contents of these letters, when taken together, that mean Mr C ought reasonably 
to have known there was a problem, and that hed suffered a loss as a result of that problem. 
And given everything that had happened he ought reasonably to have known Westerby 
might be responsible for the problem, or that he should have made reasonable enquiries to 
establish that Westerby might have been responsible.  
In The Official Receiver v Shop Direct Finance Company Limited [EWCA] Civ 367, Singh LJ 
said:
44. The FCA Handbook is similar in its drafting style to the Financial Services Authority's 
Client Assets Sourcebook (CASS), which was considered by this Court in Re Lehman 
Brothers International (Europe) (No 2) [2010] EWCA Civ 917; [2011] 2 BCLC 184 

46. For present purposes I derive the following propositions from the judgments in Re 
Lehman Brothers:
 
1) Ultimately it is the actual wording of a provision that must govern any decision as to 
its effect.
2) The Handbook should be read as a whole, taking an holistic and iterative approach, 
so that a preliminary view on one provision can be tested by reference to the rest of 
the relevant provisions.
3) The provision should be construed in the light of its overall purpose.
4) It should be construed on the basis that it is intended to produce a practical and 
commercially sensible result. The rules should be taken to be grounded in reality. 
The court should keep in proportion any drafting infelicities.
And Nugee LJ said the following in relation to DISP 2.8.2R
155.  The resemblance to the ordinary limitation periods for claims in negligence where 
there is also a primary period of 6 years (under s.2 of the Limitation Act 1980 ("LA 1980")) 
and a secondary period of 3 years from the date of the claimant's actual or constructive 
knowledge (under s.14A LA 1980) is striking. We have in fact been shown evidence that this 
is not a coincidence, but even without this material (which is of doubtful admissibility) it 
would have been a reasonable assumption that the general structure was modelled on 
the LA 1980 provisions and was designed to do the same thing in general terms.
156.  What then is the purpose of having these two time-limits? The purpose of an ordinary 
limitation period is to prevent stale claims from being litigated, the period of 6 years being 
fixed as a generally reasonable period to bring a claim. This explains the primary period. But 
as is well-known that could and did lead to some claimants who had suffered latent injury or 
damage finding that they had lost their rights to sue before they even knew, or could 
reasonably be expected to know, that they had been injured or suffered loss. Provision was 
therefore made, first in ss.11 and 14 LA 1980 (applicable to claims for personal injury) and subsequently in s.14A LA 1980 (applicable to other claims in negligence), for the claimant to 
have 3 years from his date of knowledge to bring a claim. The purpose of this is obvious. It 
was to remedy the injustice of a claimant's claim being time-barred before they knew, or 
could reasonably be expected to know, that they had a claim. On the other hand the 
selection of a (relatively short) 3 year time period shows that another purpose was to provide 
that once they did, or should, have that knowledge they should get on with the claim and 
bring proceedings reasonably promptly. Precisely the same in my view applies to the 
secondary time-limit in DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). The purpose of the rule is to prevent a 
complainant from losing the right to complain before they are, or ought reasonably to be, 
aware that they have cause for complaint, but to require them to pursue the complaint with 
reasonable promptness once they are, or should be, so aware.
The term cause for complaint is not defined in the Handbook. The term complaint (in italics) 
is defined, and it is reasonable to infer in light of the above guidance on interpreting the 
Handbook (and guidance in GEN 2.2.1R in the Handbook: Every provision in the Handbook 
must be interpreted in the light of its purpose.) that the definition of the word complaint, was 
intended to apply to the phrase cause for complaint.
The term complaint is defined for the purposes of DISP in the FCA handbook as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial servicewhich:
a) Alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience; and
b) Relates to an activity of that respondent, or any other respondent with whom that 
respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or 
products which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
So the Glossary definition of complaint requires that the act or omission complained of must 
relate to an activity of that respondent or firm (my emphasis). 
Accordingly, the material points required for Mr C to have awareness of a cause for 
complaint include:
awareness of a problem
awareness that the problem had or may have caused him material loss, and
awareness that the problem was or may have been caused by an act or omission of 
Westerby (the respondent in this complaint).
It is therefore my view that it is necessary for Mr C to have an awareness (within the 
meaning of the rule) that related to Westerby, not just awareness of a problem that had 
caused a loss. Knowledge of a loss alone is not enough. It cannot be assumed that upon 
obtaining knowledge of a loss that a consumer had knowledge of its cause. And I do not 
accept that the three-year time limit necessarily means that knowledge of a loss means that 
the consumer has three years to make enquiries to discover all parties who might be 
responsible, failing which they run out of time to make a complaint. As Nugee LJ said in The 
Official Receiver case, the purpose of the rule is to prevent a complainant from losing the 
right to complain before they are, or ought reasonably to be, aware that they have cause for 
complaint, but to require them to pursue the complaint with reasonable promptness once 
they are, or should be, so aware.
There are a number of points that Westerby has raised and which I think are relevant to this 
discussion:In order to be aware of cause for complaint the complainant should reasonably know 
theres a problem, that they have or may suffer loss, and that someone else is 
responsible for the problem  and who that someone is. So, to have knowledge of 
cause for complaint about Westerby, Mr C needs to be aware, or should reasonably 
be aware, that theres a problem which has caused, or may cause, him loss and that 
Westerby is responsible.
Mr C transferred a little over £55,000 into his SIPP in April 2014 and a little over 
£51,000 was invested into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds shortly after. 
Mr C says he was told the investments were in line with his medium attitude to risk, 
which I think means that he understood there was some risk attached, but he did 
believe them to be high-risk investments.
Westerby wrote to Mr C on 11 November 2014 highlighting that regulatory 
enforcement actions were being taken against the two funds hed invested in.
Westerby wrote to Mr C on 23 June 2015 notifying him of an investigation into the 
Kijani fund.
Westerby wrote to Mr C on 17 July 2015 to notify him of the suspension of the funds.
CCS carried out an independent audit of Abanas advice and found it to be 
unsuitable. CCS wrote to Mr C in 2016 confirming that the advice he received from 
Abana was unsuitable.
Westerby wrote to Mr C on 17 February 2017 confirming that the Kijani fund 
remained in liquidation and it was likely to be a number of years before liquidation 
was completed. It also told Mr C it was unaware of the timescale involved for the 
liquidation of the SAMAIF fund.
Mr C engaged an independent financial adviser, Firm J, in 2017 as he was expecting 
to receive redress from Abana and wanted assistance with how it should be invested.
Mr C called Westerby on 10 November 2017 as he believed he still had around 
£4,500 of liquid funds remaining in his SIPP, but he was told by Westerby all he had 
left was around £325.
 
Having considered the above facts, I think that by the time Mr C received Westerbys letter of 
17 July 2015 he was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that there was a 
problem that had caused him some loss or damage. I say this because at this point hed 
been told about the suspension of the funds and investigations into them, and that only 
around half of the funds he invested were liquid. While Mr C most likely had a medium 
attitude to risk, I dont think he wouldve expected to lose access to half of his invested funds 
so soon after making the investment. This was more than three years before he complained 
to Westerby. But, Im not satisfied that the content of the letters would have, or ought to 
have, made Mr C aware that Westerby had any responsibility for the position he was in.
To be clear, while Im satisfied it was known by Mr C that the Kijani and SAMAIF investment 
was held within his Westerby SIPP wrapper, theres nothing Ive seen that was sent to Mr C 
that would have caused Mr C, or a reasonable retail investor in his position, to link Westerby 
to the losses his pension monies had suffered. Thats particularly the case given that Mr C 
wasnt advised by Westerby about setting up the SIPP or the suitability of investments. And 
I think the obvious first thought when losses were suffered would have been that his financial advisers might have given poor advice. That belief wouldve been cemented following 
contact from CCS in 2016 that Abanas advice wasnt suitable for him and that Abana would 
be compensating him for his loss.
The relationship between Westerby and Mr C is different to an adviser/client relationship. 
Westerby didnt give Mr C advice; Abana appears to have given Mr C advice to take out a 
SIPP with Westerby, transfer existing pension arrangements to it and invest in investments 
through the ePortfolio Solutions platform. So if the investments made were disappointing, 
Mr C would reasonably have considered Abana to have been responsible.
Its not obvious why Mr C should, initially at least, consider Westerby to be responsible if the 
problem was disappointing investments within the SIPP. Mr C knew Westerby hadnt 
recommended the investments to him. And he knew, or should have known from the content 
of the correspondence that Westerby was sending to him from 2014 onwards, that it wasnt 
Westerbys role to give advice. For example, amongst other things, Westerby said that:
It is important to emphasise from the outset that we are not providing advice in relation to 
the investment funds held under your SIPP, and we cannot do so as we are not authorised 
by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide financial advice.
From what Westerby said to consumers in the correspondence it issued from 2014 onwards, 
I think that it would, or should, have been understood by Mr C that investments that had 
previously been classed as standard assets when the investments were first made were 
later changed to non-standard assets. Further, that non-standard assets were often 
speculative and high risk and Westerby only permitted such assets where full investment 
advice had been provided by a regulated financial advisor or where the investor was a High 
Net Worth/Sophisticated or Elective Professional Investor.
Westerby also explained, in general terms, that Abanas business was being novated over to 
Abana (FS) Ltd (which was directly regulated by the FCA). And later clarified that the 
novation wasnt going ahead because Abana (FS) Ltd wasnt suitably independent. 
Westerby said that we recommend that you seek financial advice from an independent 
financial adviser who is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Please be aware that 
as detailed in our accompanying letter Abana (FS) Limited are not deemed to be suitably 
independent. 
The letters from Westerby Ive mentioned above didnt expressly say that Abana wasnt 
authorised to give advice on the establishment of the SIPP, the transfer into the SIPP or how 
SIPP monies would be invested at the time that advice was given. Nor did the letters 
otherwise indicate any fault on the part of Westerby. So, the letters didnt say that Westerby 
had failed to identify that Abana didnt have the requisite permissions to give the advice it 
gave to Mr C. Or that Westerby should have checked Abanas permissions and that it had 
failed to do so. Or, alternatively (if this was Westerbys position at the time), that it had 
checked and it had been misled by Abana about this. So, in my view, the letters dont hint at 
any breach of duty on the part of Westerby, nor was there any suggestion in them that 
Westerby might have some responsibility for the losses that had been suffered, nor did 
Westerby offer to review its conduct or invite complaints in the letters.
In December 2017 Mr C ultimately made a complaint to Abana about the advice he received 
and he subsequently made a complaint to Westerby in April 2020.
I dont think Mr C would have needed to understand the details of a SIPP providers 
obligations to have awareness (or be in a position whereby he ought reasonably to have 
been aware) of his cause for complaint. But I think Mr C would have needed to have actual 
or constructive awareness that an act or omission of Westerby had a causative role in the loss. However, Ive seen no evidence that Mr C had been told by any party more than three 
years prior to his raising a complaint with Westerby in April 2020, that Westerby may have 
done something wrong and might be wholly or partly responsible for the position he was in. 
Mr C was asked what prompted him to complain about Westerbys role in the transaction 
and he pointed to the phone call he had with Westerby in 2017 regarding the remaining 
funds in his SIPP. Mr C said that when he was told it was essentially all gone, he thought 
Westerby was at fault and owed him some sort of duty of care.
Based on the evidence provided by Mr C and Westerby, it appears that this call took place 
on 10 November 2017. And overall, I think this is likely the first point at which Mr C 
considered Westerby could have had some responsibility for his loss. Thats because he 
was aware of the problems with the investments, and thought Westerby couldve done more 
to prevent him from losing funds. As Mr C complained about Westerby within three years of 
this date, I think he made his complaint in time.
Westerby argues that Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware of his cause for complaint 
about Westerby following his appointment of Firm J. Westerby says that Firm J was fully 
appraised of the situation with Mr Cs investments following its letter of 7 March 2017. And 
as a financial adviser it was reasonable to believe that Firm J wouldve advised Mr C of his 
position and any steps he couldve taken to protect it, including consideration being given to 
the involvement of Westerby. Westerby says this is consistent with s14A(10) of the 
Limitation Act 1980, which provides that knowledge includes knowledge Mr C might 
reasonably be expected to acquire from the facts observable or ascertainable by him and 
from the facts ascertainable with the help of appropriate expert advice which it is reasonable 
for him to seek (i.e. making clear that there is an objective as well as a subjective test 
involved; the claimant may therefore have actual (subjective) or constructive (objective) 
knowledge).
We asked Firm J to provide copies of all correspondence and records it had of its dealings 
with Mr C. We also asked Mr C for his recollections of any meetings or discussions with 
Firm J. Mr C said he had very little contact with Firm J, a friend had put him in touch with it 
but there was no agreement for him to be his financial adviser. Firm J also said that its 
dealings with Mr C were brief, that Mr C had given them authority to approach Westerby for 
information, but no advice was given. It said it was aware that Mr C was expecting to receive 
redress from Abana and was exploring how this might be invested. It had asked Mr C for 
more information so it could advise him on his position but ultimately he didnt respond.
Ive thought about Westerbys argument carefully but I dont think Mr Cs appointment of 
Firm J means that he ought reasonably to have been aware of his complaint about Westerby 
before April 2017 that being three years before he did in fact complain. It seems to me that 
Firm J was not appointed as Mr Cs financial adviser in the way that Westerby describes; 
that is, considering his pension provisions overall. Rather it appears that, hopeful that he 
would soon receive compensation from Abana, Mr C sought to engage Firm J to look at how 
he might invest those funds.
Westerbys letter of 7 March 2017 to Firm J explained that Mr C had received advice from 
Abana to invest £51,329.56 (out of a total of £55,257.90 transferred from an existing 
pension) in the Kijani and SAMAIF funds. Westerby explained what had happened with the 
investments and added that CCS had concluded the advice Mr C received from Abana was 
unsuitable. Westerby said Mr C was due to receive redress but it didnt know when that 
would be paid. There was nothing within the letter that alluded to any wrongdoing on 
Westerbys part in accepting the investments or the introduction from Abana. And having 
reviewed the correspondence between Mr C and Firm J, I also havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Firm J made Mr C aware he had any cause for complaint against 
Westerby.
Westerby has argued that had Mr C engaged with Firm J further, he could have been in a 
position to make his complaint before 1 April 2017. But Im not persuaded thats a 
reasonable conclusion in the circumstances. At the point Mr C contacted Firm J, he was 
expecting to be compensated for his loss through Abana. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable that he didnt engage further with Firm J about things given he had no funds to 
invest until such time that he received his compensation. And as Ive said above, when the 
funds didnt materialise I think he took the reasonable next step in complaining about Abana.
Overall then, given the problem with the investments Mr C had been advised to make, the 
obvious party for Mr C to think had caused the loss was the party who recommended he 
make those investments  Abana. Im not aware of anything that Westerby said or did at the 
outset of its relationship with Mr C that would have caused him to think it might be 
responsible if such a problem occurred. Nor am I aware of anything it said or did that would 
have caused Mr C to think it was responsible once the problem had occurred. In the 
circumstances I consider that Mr C was acting reasonably in looking to Abana and in not 
himself thinking that Westerby might also be responsible for his loss or for not seeking 
advice as to whether he might have cause for complaint or a claim against anyone in 
addition to Abana. 
I dont think Mr C was obliged to seek expert advice from, for example, solicitors in relation 
to the loss he suffered. And I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr C to have carried out 
more investigations than he did to find out who was responsible for his loss and how he 
could claim redress. Although Mr Cs awareness of his cause for complaint took several 
years to emerge, I think he was engaged in the matter, took reasonable steps, and didnt 
simply choose not to pursue any action. So, for the reasons given above, I dont think that 
Mr C was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause for 
complaint against Westerby more than three years before his complaint was referred to it in 
April 2020. Accordingly, Im satisfied this complaint has been brought in time and that its 
one we can consider.  
Merits of the complaint
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to 
be the central issues as a discourtesy. To be clear, the purpose of this decision isnt to 
comment on every individual point or question the parties have made, rather its to set out 
my findings and reasons for reaching them. 
According to the complaint Mr C registered with the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mr C 
has complained that Westerby did not carry out sufficient due diligence on either the 
financial introducer, or the recommended investments before accepting them into his SIPP. 
Westerby, however, says that Mr Cs initial complaint with made against Abana, and that his 
complaint about Westerby was effectively directed by our Service. I accept that Mr C initially complained about Abana, but from what Mr C has said I think he felt Westerby was also at 
fault and owed him a duty of care. And in any event, DISP 3.5.2G provides that this service, 
may inform the complainant that it might be appropriate to complain against some other 
respondent.
It appears from the content of Westerbys final response letter that Westerby understood 
Mr Cs complaint to encompass the adequacy of checks it undertook as a SIPP provider 
when accepting his business and on investments made after it had accepted his business. 
I say that because, in responding to Mr Cs complaint, Westerby sought to clarify to Mr C 
some of its duties as his SIPP provider. Westerby said that it undertook due diligence on 
Mr Cs investments that was in accordance with the standards detailed in the FCAs 
July 2014 Dear CEO letter. Westerby also referenced some steps it had taken when it 
became aware of issues with the investments. And Westerby explained that it had carried 
out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it, including infomation about 
some of those checks. 
Given the general nature of Mr Cs complaint, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, its appropriate to take an inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be 
looking at here is whether Westerby took reasonable care, acted with due diligence and 
treated Mr C fairly, in accordance with his best interests. And what I think is fair and 
reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue in Mr Cs complaint is whether it was fair 
and reasonable for Westerby to have accepted Mr Cs SIPP application in the first place. So, 
I need to consider whether Westerby carried out appropriate due diligence checks on Abana 
before deciding to accept Mr Cs SIPP application from it.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant 
date). Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirements they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach 
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to 
the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
Ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
Ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which 
Ive described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a decision on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Cs case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Cs case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of 
the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The 
key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction. 
In my view there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the 
issues in Mr Cs complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. 
The facts of Mr Adams and Mr Cs cases are also different. I make that point to highlight that 
there are factual differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Cs case. And I need to 
construe the duties Westerby owed to Mr C under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts 
of Mr Cs case. 
In the published decision it was noted that in Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted 
that the transaction with Options SIPP proceeded on an execution only basis, i.e. without 
any advice from the business introducing the SIPP application. And the transaction between 
Mr C and Westerby in this complaint proceeded on the footing that Mr C was being advised 
by an authorised advisor. Again, I make this point simply to highlight that there are factual 
differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Cs case.
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Cs case, including Westerbys role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that Westerby was under any obligation to advise 
Mr C on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application 
because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which didnt have the required 
permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same firm, isnt the 
same thing as advising Mr C on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. 
So, Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Cs case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the Ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman. 
Im also satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Abana. So, it clearly thought it was 
good practice to do so, at the very least. 
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the Dear CEO letter of July 
2014 post-dates the events that took place in relation to Mr Cs complaint, mean that the 
examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant 
events. Although the Dear CEO letter was published after the events subject to this 
complaint, the Principles that underpin it existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in 
accordance with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances. 
In response to the investigators assessment, Westerby stated that s20 of FSMA provides 
that an authorised person acting without permissions doesnt make the transaction void or 
unenforceable and it doesnt give rise to any right of action for breach of statutory duty (save 
in limited circumstances). And that this is the opposite approach to someone acting without 
authorisation, as per s27 of the FSMA. Westerby has said that Parliaments intention was 
that an authorised party shouldnt be held liable for losses flowing from another authorised 
partys breach of their own requirements and that this service shouldnt depart from statute. 
Westerby has also previously submitted that part of the regulatory publications weve 
referred to also appear to directly contradict the intention of legislation.
Ive carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of s20 and s27 of the 
FSMA. But, to be clear, with regards to the contents of s20, its not my role to determine 
whether an offence has occurred or if theres something that gives rise to a right to take legal 
action and Im not making a finding here on whether Mr Cs application is void or 
unenforceable. Rather, Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the 
Principles and the publications listed above are relevant considerations to that decision.In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Cs SIPP 
application from Abana, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations: to act with due 
skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the 
Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby could 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
 
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both initially 
and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice theyre providing. 
So taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for Westerby 
to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Abana had the required permissions to 
give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK before 
accepting Mr Cs business from it. 
Westerby says it carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. And 
from what Ive seen I accept that it undertook some checks. However, the question I need to 
consider is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its regulatory obligations, 
identified that Abana didnt in fact have the top-up permissions from the FCA it required to 
be giving advice on, and arranging, personal pensions in the UK. And whether Westerby 
should, therefore, not have accepted Mr Cs application from it. 
The regulatory position 
Abana is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by Autoridade de 
Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (ASF). As Ive mentioned above, Abana held 
an IMD branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services 
passport from 12 March 2013 to 29 December 2015. 
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsurance mediation are defined as: 
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out other 
work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of concluding such 
contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts, in 
particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out other 
work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of concluding such 
contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts, in 
particular in the event of a claim. 
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7): We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business from 
January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions policies 
is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by us and are 
subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Cs SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2): 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as personal 
pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, unit trust 
managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free-standing 
voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
 
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It didnt 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mr Cs application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive Activities Part II RAO 
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89 (see 
Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 
25, 53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of 
a claim.Articles 39A, 
64Articles 75, 89I note this shows Article 82 investments arent covered by the Insurance Mediation Directive. 
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Cs application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up permission 
under Part 4A of the Act (the Act being the FSMA). In other words, it needs top-up 
permissions from the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its 
IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found at SUP 13A.7. SUP 
13A.7.1G states (as at January 2014): 
If a person established in the EEA: 
1) does not have an EEA right; 
2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G to 
SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 4A 
permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the appropriate UK regulator's 
website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-authorisation/getting-authorised for the FCA and 
www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations /newfirm/default.aspx for the PRA). This 
might arise if the activity itself is outside the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where 
the activity is included in the scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the 
EEA firm's Home State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under 
Schedules 3, 4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other activities, the Part 4A permission is 
referred to in the Handbook as a top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at 
January 2014) as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance intermediary, 
registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by its Home State 
regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market Directive or the auction regulation
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which Ive set out above) was readily 
available in 2014 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Abana, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should therefore 
have known  or have checked and discovered  that a business based in Portugal that was 
EEA-authorised needed to have top-up permissions to give advice and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up permissions had 
to be granted by the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, its fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Abana required the relevant top-up permissions 
from the FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking. 
Westerbys checks on Abanas permissions
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Abana and it couldnt, 
and shouldnt, reasonably have concluded that Abana didnt have the required top-up 
permissions. Ive carefully considered all of Westerbys submissions on this point. 
The Register
Im satisfied that, in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. 
I think its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the Register entry for 
Abana in the circumstances. And I think its fair and reasonable to say that the checks 
Westerby ought to have conducted on Abanas Register entry should have included a review 
of all the relevant information available.  
Westerby says it checked Abanas entry on the Register. So, I think its clear that Westerby 
thought it should check the Register, rather than simply asking Abana what permissions it 
had and then merely relying on what Abana said. 
Westerby says that, at the time of Mr Cs SIPP application, there wasnt information available 
or accessible on the FCA Register that would have shown Abanas permissions position. It 
says that screenshots show that the Register at that time didnt include a Passports 
section, or make any mention of any restrictions on Abana's permissions. Westerby also 
believes that the FCA would have been unable to confirm Abanas permissions if asked, as 
this information wasnt available on the then Register. 
Ive carefully considered everything Westerbys said about the format of the Register in or 
around 2014, when Mr Cs application was submitted by Abana. 
Westerby has previously submitted that:
WTS [Westerby] searched Abana on the Financial Services register on 10 May 2013 and 
established that they were EEA authorised. Please refer to the enclosed copy screenshot of 
the search dated 10 May 2013. This shows that the search results did not include a 
Passports section, or any mention in the notices or other information sections of any 
restrictions on Abanas permission, which would be usual if there had been any restriction. 
Whilst WTS accept that a present day search includes a Passports section, they dispute 
that a search in May 2013 did, as illustrated by the enclosed screenshot. Acting reasonably, 
WTS could not have found details of the passport permission from a search of the Financial 
Services register at that time. 
The following print out from the Register was provided to us in support of this: The third-party report on the Register, provided by Westerby during the investigation of the 
complaint which was the subject of the published decision, is helpful to discussions about 
the format of the Register at the time of Mr Cs SIPP application. The report included the 
following screenshot of the archived Register for Abana (dated 24 July 2013):
Each of the red titles at the top of the entry for Abana (Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, Disciplinary History and so on) is a hyperlink to another page of Abanas entry 
on the Register. So, this screenshot shows that Abanas 2013 entry on the Register would 
have included, amongst other things, both Permission and Passports pages. And its 
reasonable to conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register, in or 
around the time Mr Cs SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2014, included pages 
which provided information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation to a 
firms permissions. 
Elsewhere in the third-party report it says theres no evidence that at the relevant time the 
Register contained any Permissions data relating to Abana that could have been searched 
by Westerby. The report refers to paragraph 24 as forming the basis for this conclusion. 
Ive carefully reviewed the third-party report. Paragraph 24 only confirms that if the hyperlink 
to the Permission page is clicked, theres no archive of that specific Permission page. In 
my view, the fact this hyperlink yielded nothing when clicked just speaks to the limitations of 
the internet archive in question. So, I dont think paragraph 24 shows that no Permission 
page for Abana existed in 2013. However, I do think that evidence provided elsewhere in the 
third-party report strongly suggests a Permission page did exist for Abana.   
Only the Regulators page has been archived for Abanas entry on the Register from 
July 2013. But the third-party report provides examples of several Permission pages for 
other firms which were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Cs SIPP application or 
earlier. The below example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like 
Abana, was an incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
 
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that 
it showed No matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for 
EEA firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded 
was that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA).  
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows No matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail. 
Im satisfied that all of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Cs 
application was received by Westerby, the format of the FCA Register contained a page 
labelled Permission where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, 
where a firm didnt have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission 
page on their Register entry would simply state No matches found (as there were no 
permissions to display).  
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top-up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since 2013. In response, the FCA confirmed that top-up permissions do appear on the 
Register under the Permission page, and that it understands the same information was 
available on the Register in 2013. In other words, the FCAs response to our question 
accords with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence 
thats available in this case. 
Westerby has said in the interests of transparency we should provide, amongst other things, 
evidence of the enquiries made to the FCA and the response received. But, Westerby has 
already been provided with the FCAs response to our question. So, Im satisfied that 
Westerby has had the opportunity to consider the response, and that its also had the 
opportunity to make further submissions to us on this point. And Im satisfied that I can fairly 
determine this complaint now and that Westerby doesnt need to be provided with further 
information on this point.
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question accords 
with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats 
available in this case. So, my decision on this complaint would still be the same without the 
FCAs response to our question. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that:
In order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have independently 
checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And its 
fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the totality of Abanas 
Register entry in the circumstances. 
The format of the Register in 2013 included a Permission page. And it follows that 
the entry for Abana on the Register, at the time of Mr Cs application, would have 
included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked. 
In previous submissions to us, Westerby seemed to suggest that the Basic details page 
was the totality of the Register entry available for Abana at the relevant time. But, as 
I understand it, Westerby now seems to accept that the Register did include other sections. 
But says that, at the relevant time, these sections didnt contain any further information about 
Abanas passports or permissions.
Westerby has been unable to produce evidence to demonstrate that it did in fact check the 
Permission page for Abana before it accepted Mr Cs SIPP application from it. But even if it 
did check the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time, Westerby appears to have 
failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, the 2013 record of the 
Permission page for Abana hasnt been archived. So, weve no evidence of what specific 
information was available on the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time. 
However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, Im satisfied that there would have been 
a Permission page available on Abanas Register entry. And, if this page had erroneously 
failed to contain any information on whether or not Abana held the relevant permissions, (for 
example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank), Westerby ought to have 
taken further steps to ascertain what the correct position was. So, I dont agree with 
Westerbys submission that information about a firms permissions wasnt available for an 
online user in 2014. And, in my view, the third-party report submitted by Westerby 
demonstrates the contrary to be the correct position.
Westerby has previously referred to a Complaints Commissioners report that highlights 
some issues with the Register. I appreciate that there have been criticisms of the Register 
and that it may, on occasion, have contained errors. However, Im satisfied that a regulated 
market participant such as Westerby, acting in accordance with its regulatory obligations, 
ought to have understood that Abana needed permission from the FCA to give advice on 
and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting 
business from Abana, Westerby needed to confirm that Abana held the required 
permissions. And, for the reasons Ive detailed above, Im satisfied that Abanas entry on the 
Register at the relevant time would have included a Permission page. And, if this page hadnt set out any information (for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been 
left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, shouldnt have accepted 
Mr Cs application from Abana before carrying out further enquiries to clarify the correct 
position on Abanas permissions.    
Westerby says that the FCA wont confirm details about a firm that arent available on its 
public register, I accept that. However, and for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied 
that top-up permissions are something that are recorded on the FCAs public register, and 
that this was also the case at the date Westerby accepted Mr Cs application from Abana.
Westerby says that Abana not holding the relevant permissions wouldnt have been a matter 
of public record. Further, that the FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not what 
was missing from it and that the FCA would have been unable to provide any more 
information than that which was provided on the Register.
As Ive mentioned above, we dont have evidence of exactly what did appear on Abanas 
Permission page in 2013/2014. However, this was information that ought to have been 
publicly available on the Register, so Im satisfied that whether Abana had top-up 
permissions was a matter of public record. And, if the Permission page had erroneously 
been left blank, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that, if asked, the FCA would have 
been able to confirm the position that Abana didnt have the required permissions. 
So, I think contacting the FCA was a sensible and proper route open to Westerby to verify 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And if Westerby had contacted the 
FCA directly to confirm Abanas permissions because the Register didnt contain the relevant 
details, I dont think the restriction Westerby has referred to regarding what the FCA could 
confirm would have prevented Westerby getting the information it needed. Abana didnt have 
any top-up permissions. That was a matter of public record. So, I think the FCA would have 
been able to confirm this to Westerby. 
To be clear, even if there was an issue with Abanas Register entry, or if Im wrong in my 
finding that Abanas entry on the Register at the relevant time included a Permission page, 
(and the Basic details page was the totality of the Register entry for Abana in 2014), I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that it was appropriate  or in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations  for Westerby to have proceeded with Mr Cs application from Abana 
in those circumstances. 
Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before 
accepting business from it. And if there was no information available or accessible on the 
Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of Abana, then Westerby 
ought to have either found another way to verify Abanas permissions, or it ought to have 
declined to accept any applications from Abana until it could verify the correct position on 
Abanas permissions. 
And if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Abanas permissions  a position 
that I think is very unlikely given the available evidence  I think its fair and reasonable to 
say that Westerby should have then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed with accepting 
business from Abana in those circumstances. In my opinion, it wasnt reasonable, and it 
wasnt in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with accepting 
business from Abana if the position wasnt clear. 
So, to summarise, Im satisfied that:
It wasnt fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana 
if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions Abana held. In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Abana held any top-up permissions. And, as Im satisfied this would have been a 
matter of public record, I think the FCA would have been able to confirm whether 
Abana held any permissions. 
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Abanas permissions, Westerby 
should simply have declined to accept business from Abana. 
Could Westerby have relied on what Abana told it? 
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Abana (the Agreement) and, in 
signing the Agreement, Abana confirmed it held the permissions it required. 
Westerby has referred to meetings that took place between it and Abana. It says Abana 
confirmed its permissions in these meetings. And that, as Abana was an authorised firm, it 
was entitled to rely on what Abana had told it.
Westerby has also previously referred to the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1, and to Gen 4 
Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on factual 
information provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence process 
(TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are required to 
make. 
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others: 
A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it to 
obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information 
provided to it in writing by another person. 
And COBS 2.4.8 G says: 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional 
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Abana, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the information. 
Westerby, in previous submissions, has confirmed that it kept no records of the discussions 
it had with Abana during the meetings its referred to, nor did Westerby record in writing 
specifically what Abana told it about the permissions it held. Westerby has said that SIPP 
operators arent required to meet with introducing IFAs before accepting business from them 
and, as such, it didnt have formal records of the discussions it had with Abana. 
However, Westerby now seeks to rely on these meetings to evidence that it did take steps to 
ascertain Abanas permissions and that Abana had confirmed to Westerby that it had the 
required top-up permissions. In my opinion, if these meetings were the way Westerby was 
intending to evidence Abanas permissions, in order to comply with its regulatory obligations, 
in particular Principle 2, (to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence), and 
Principle 3, (to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively), Westerby should have had processes in place to ensure that it was able to 
evidence the due diligence it had carried out on Abana, including the steps taken to confirm 
Abanas permissions. Further, I dont think any meetings Westerby had with Abana amounts to Abana providing 
something in writing on which it may have been reasonable for Westerby to rely, as it was a 
verbal exchange only and there appears to be nothing in writing arising from these meetings. 
The corollary of this is that I dont therefore think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the meetings. 
Westerby says that the meetings it had with Abana culminated with Westerby establishing a 
legal document  the Agreement  in which Abana warranted that it had the required 
permissions to introduce SIPPs business. 
Ive also reviewed the contents of the Terms of Business Agreement of a different SIPP 
provider that Westerby has provided to us.
Having carefully considered everything, I remain of the view that the Agreement appears to 
be a generic document and not specific to Abana. It doesnt refer to, nor require either party 
to confirm or warrant the accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence 
process (i.e. the meetings at which Westerby claims Abana gave verbal assurances as to its 
permissions). 
The Agreement provides as follows: 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial Services 
Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying investments where 
appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, authorities, licences and skills 
necessary for it to carry out its activities under this contract and will in all aspects comply 
with all Applicable Laws. 
In my view this doesnt amount to a clear statement that Abana had the required top-up 
permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK that Westerby would 
be entitled to rely on. 
In addition, the activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes isnt 
mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which I think is  
an ambiguous term. And, the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is generic and 
doesnt refer specifically to top-up permissions being required and Abana warranting that it 
has top-up permissions to conduct personal pensions business in the UK.  
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement, and all the submissions Westerby 
made in relation to what it says Abana told it about the permissions held, Im not satisfied on 
the evidence provided that Westerby did establish what top-up permissions Abana required 
to be arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it requested, and 
received, confirmation from Abana that it held those permissions. Im also not satisfied, for 
the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in seeking to rely on 
the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Abana warranted it had the required top-up 
permissions. 
In any event, its my view that Westerby should have done more to independently verify that 
Abana had the required top-up permissions. If Westerby had carried out independent 
checks on Abanas permissions as required by its regulatory obligations, it ought to have 
been privy to information which didnt reconcile with what Abana had allegedly told it about 
its permissions. So, in failing to take this step, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Westerby didnt do enough in order to establish whether or not Abana did have the 
permissions it required.   So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to either the 
meetings Westerby had with Abana or the Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive 
also given careful thought to whether it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on these things 
generally.
Westerby has referred, in previous submissions, to the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1 and 
to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook, and Ive considered this question with those details 
in mind. However, Im not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was reasonable for 
Westerby to rely on the meetings and Agreement, and for much the same reasons as Ive 
given above in relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2). 
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise clients are 
authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA 
website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I dont think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. Its told 
us it checked the Register at the point that it received Mr C's SIPP application. Its also told 
us its procedure was to check the Register every time a SIPP application is received from an 
introducer, and every time advisor fees are paid from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this 
demonstrates good practice, as per the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report. And thats a 
view I share. 
So Westerby shouldnt have  and didnt  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as mentioned 
above, for all the reasons Ive given, I think Westerbys check of the Register ought to have 
led to the conclusion that Abana didnt have the required top-up permissions (i.e. if the 
information on Abanas Permission page had been correctly recorded), or in the alternative, 
that the Register didnt record the information on Abanas Permission page in order for 
Westerby to confirm the position one way or the other (for example, if the Permission page 
had erroneously been left blank).
This means that either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which didnt 
reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions in the meetings and the 
Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further enquiries to 
independently check Abanas permissions, and by failing to do so, it didnt meet the 
requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.
Anomalous features 
In my view, Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mr C was 
taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer 
the monies from an existing personal pension plan into a SIPP, and then to send the majority 
of the money transferred into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius (with one later 
moving to the Cayman Islands). The investments involved were unusual, and specialised. 
And the chances of them being suitable investments for a significant portion of a retail 
investors pension were very small. So, given the relevant factors, Westerby ought to have 
viewed the application from Mr C as carrying a significant risk of consumer detriment. And it should have been aware that the role of the advisor was likely to be a very important one in 
the circumstances  emphasising the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on 
Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving advice on 
personal pensions in the UK.  
I dont expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr C  
and I accept it couldnt do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr C fairly and act in his best interests. 
In any event, regardless of the points Ive made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, Im of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Abanas 
permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above point only to 
highlight the importance of carrying out this check. 
Further points
Westerby has previously said its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a 
firm on the basis of the EEA country in which its been established. However, in my view, 
carrying out adequate checks on Abanas permissions doesnt equate to treating Abana 
differently by virtue of its location. Westerby should have carried out these checks on any 
firm introducing advised business to it. 
Westerby has said it provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the regulator, and that 
the regulator never expressed any concerns about it accepting business from Abana. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that at the time Westerby accepted Mr Cs application from 
Abana, a factor in its decision to do so was that it had been reporting the previous business 
it had been doing with Abana to the regulator, and that the regulator hadnt raised any 
concerns with it about this business. In any event, Im of the view that this is irrelevant, 
because if Westerby had acted in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it wouldnt have 
accepted business from Abana at all and Abana would therefore not have featured in its 
reporting to the regulator. 
Westerby has previously said that its able to accept applications from non-regulated 
introducers. But there seems to be no basis on which Mr Cs application could, or would, 
have proceeded on the understanding Abana was an unregulated introducer. Westerby 
seems to have understood from the outset that Abana wasnt simply an introducer of 
investments to its customers. It was carrying on the regulated activities of advising and 
arranging. It seems that in any event, Westerby had a policy not to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
make any findings based on the fact that Westerby was able to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses, as that was not the circumstances involved in this case.
I appreciate that theres an argument that if it had been identified that Abana didnt have the 
required top-up permissions, Abana might have applied for, and been granted, the relevant 
top-up permissions. However, I find no merit in this line of argument. Im required to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And in this case, 
Westerby accepted business from a firm which didnt have the required permissions to be 
carrying on the business that it did. And, Westerby failed to identify this fact prior to 
accepting Mr Cs application. So, this is what I need to consider here  not a possible 
situation that could have happened.
Westerby has submitted that where complaints have been received by this service against 
both Abana and Westerby, that we should decide the complaint against Abana before, or at the same time as, the complaint against Westerby. Later in this decision, Ive addressed the 
question of whether its fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr C compensation in the circumstances 
of this complaint. But, before going on to address that issue in detail below, and just in case 
theres been a misunderstanding, I wanted to clarify that Mr C previously made a complaint 
about Abana to us, but that case was subsequently closed after Abana had ceased trading. 
And our records show that a decision hadnt been issued on the complaint by an 
Ombudsman before the case was closed. 
Conclusion 
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions. 
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana didnt have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions. 
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana. 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business 
Ive outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Cs 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving 
advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Cs application from 
Abana.
Im therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Cs SIPP application from Abana. 
Due diligence on the underlying investments
In light of my conclusions about Westerbys regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers, and given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint 
Westerby failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered Westerbys obligations 
under the Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying 
investments. Its my view that had Westerby complied with its obligations under the 
Principles to carry out sufficient due diligence checks on Abana, then this arrangement 
wouldnt have come about in the first place.
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr C compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application? 
I think its more likely than not that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Cs application from 
Abana and Mr C had received an explanation as to why his application hadnt been accepted 
(as Abana didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide such advice, 
or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Abana had the 
necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice), Mr C wouldnt have continued to 
accept or act on pensions advice provided by Abana. And I think its very unlikely that advice 
from a business that did have the necessary permissions would have resulted in Mr C taking the same course of action. I think its reasonable to assume that a business that did have the 
necessary permissions would have given suitable advice. 
I appreciate that Westerby might say that its contract was with Abana not Mr C and that if 
Mr Cs application was refused it wouldnt have been at liberty to, or had reason to, contact 
Mr C. But Westerby did receive Mr Cs application, so Im considering what it ought to have 
done having received Mr Cs application. And for the reasons Ive explained at length above 
Im satisfied that, having received Mr Cs application from Abana, it shouldnt then have 
accepted Mr Cs SIPP application.
Mr C went through a process with Abana that culminated in him completing paperwork to set 
up a new Westerby SIPP and with the expectancy that monies from his existing pension 
plans would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time and 
effort of doing this, I think its more likely than not that if the Westerby SIPP wasnt then 
established, and if his pension monies werent then transferred to Westerby, that Mr C would 
have wanted to find out why from Abana and Westerby. 
And I wouldnt think it fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt compensate Mr C 
for his loss on the basis of any speculation that Abana and/or Westerby wouldnt have 
confirmed to Mr C the reason why the transfer hadnt proceeded if asked by him. 
So, I think its fair to conclude that one or more of the parties involved would have explained 
to Mr C that his application hadnt been accepted as Abana didnt have the necessary top-
up permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been 
able to independently verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide 
the advice. And that Mr C wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on pensions advice 
provided by Abana.
Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the necessary 
permissions would have resulted in Mr C taking the same course of action. I think its 
reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary permissions would have given 
suitable advice. And if Mr C had sought advice from a different advisor, who was qualified to 
give pension switching advice, I think its more likely than not that the advice would have 
been to retain his existing pension plans. Alternatively, Mr C might have simply decided not 
to seek pensions advice elsewhere from a different advisor and still then retained his existing 
pension plans.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but nevertheless 
decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr C proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investments he was making were high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
Abana. Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr C was paid a cash incentive. It therefore 
cannot be said he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. So, in my opinion, this case 
is very different from that of Mr Adams.
Westerby has contended that Mr C would likely have proceeded with the transfer and 
subsequent investments regardless of the actions it took. Its highlighted that other SIPP 
providers were accepting such investments at the time, and says the transactions would 
have been effected with another provider.Westerby might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mr Cs application, 
had it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt 
compensate Mr C for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would 
have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that 
another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr Cs application from Abana. 
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept 
Mr Cs application from Abana, that process would still have needed Mr C to be willing to 
continue to do business with Abana after Westerby had rejected his application for another 
application to proceed. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not satisfied that Mr C 
would have continued to accept or act on pensions advice from Abana in such 
circumstances. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Cs application from Abana, the transaction wouldnt still have gone 
ahead. 
The involvement of Abana
Westerby has said that a complaint against Abana, ought to have been decided first or, at 
the very least, complaints against it and Abana ought to have been decided together. 
Westerby has also said that weve upheld complaints against Abana where there was 
another SIPP operator involved and that weve not pursued or invited consumers to pursue 
complaints against that other SIPP operator. Ive carefully considered these points but, as 
I explain below, Im satisfied that its fair to require Westerby to compensate Mr C for the full 
measure of his loss.
In this decision Im considering Mr Cs complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Abana gave unsuitable advice to Mr C to transfer the monies from Mr Cs existing 
pension plan into a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, Westerby had its own distinct 
set of obligations when considering whether to accept Mr Cs application for a SIPP. 
Abana had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of 
its permissions. Westerby wasnt required to ensure Abana complied with that responsibility. 
But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. And this 
included to check that firms introducing advised business to it had the regulatory 
permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply with these obligations 
in this case. 
Im satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana, and acted in 
accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently checking 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby wouldnt have done any 
SIPP business with Abana in the first place. 
Im also satisfied that if Mr C had been told that Abana was acting outside its permissions in 
giving pensions advice, or alternatively that Westerby hadnt been able to independently 
verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice, he 
wouldnt have continued to accept or act on advice from it. And, having taken into account all 
the circumstances of this case, its my view that its fair and reasonable to hold Westerby 
responsible for its failure to identify that Abana didnt have the required top-up permissions 
to be giving advice and making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. 
The DISP rules set out that when an Ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R). 
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr C fairly. 
The starting point, therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr C 
compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. Ive considered 
whether theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr C for 
his loss, including if it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. And Im 
satisfied its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr C to 
the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr C to enter into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Cs loss. However, its also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mr C wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss 
he suffered could have been avoided. 
Westerby could have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr C has 
against Abana before compensation is paid. And the compensation could be made 
contingent upon Mr Cs acceptance of this term of settlement. 
Westerby has previously said that as Abanas ceased to trade then any indemnity from 
Abana and/or assignment of any action against it is effectively worthless. 
I accept that may be true. However, the key point here is that but for Westerbys failings, 
Mr C wouldnt have suffered the loss hes suffered. As a result, the trading/financial position 
of Abana, and the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on an indemnity from Abana 
and/or the fact that any assignment of any action against Abana from Mr C might be 
worthless, doesnt lead me to change my overall view on this point. And, as such, Im of the 
opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr C 
to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding 
any failings by Abana.
Westerby has also highlighted that in a previous decision involving an EEA firm that had 
acted outside its permissions, a different Ombudsman made an apportionment between the 
SIPP provider and the advisor on a 50/50 basis. 
The circumstances and facts of the other complaint Westerby has mentioned appear to be 
very different to Mr Cs complaint. And it also looks like the SIPP provider in the other 
complaint had already compensated the consumer for half of their losses before the 
Ombudsman was asked to decide the complaint against the EEA firm.
Importantly, we consider each complaint on its own merits, and the question I have to 
address in this case is whether, in all of the circumstances of this specific complaint, its fair 
to ask Westerby to compensate Mr C to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered 
due to its failings and, for the reasons Ive already given above, Im satisfied it is. 
I want to make clear that Ive carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. And Im of the view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
Westerby to compensate Mr C to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby is liable to pay to Mr C.    
Mr C taking responsibility for his own investment decisions 
I note the point has been made by Westerby that consumers should take responsibility for 
their own investment decisions. Ive considered the actions of Mr C in relation to the 
mitigation of loss, in the section below. Beyond that, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to say Mr Cs actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of 
Westerbys failings. 
Mr C took advice from a regulated advisor (albeit one acting outside the permissions it held  
a fact unknown to Mr C) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, 
Westerby. And Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
Westerby should compensate Mr C for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to 
say in the circumstances that Mr C should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed 
the investments to be made. 
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Westerby says it wrote to Mr C in November 2014 to highlight issues with the funds his SIPP 
invested in and to inform him of an opportunity to realise some of his investment value. It 
says Mr C had a responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard his funds and so 
should be responsible for the losses hes suffered. Westerby feels Mr C shouldve been able 
to recover the entire amount invested had he submitted a redemption request following its 
letter of November 2014.
Ive carefully considered this point but dont think its fair for any reduction to be made to fair 
compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr C to mitigate his loss.
I dont think it would be fair to say Mr C should have made a redemption request when 
Westerby wrote to him in November 2014. The November 2014 letter required Mr C to seek 
advice, and urged him to contact his financial advisor, Abana. It seems Mr C did this, and he 
was advised to keep the investments. Mr C wasnt alone in this, based on other cases weve 
seen, Abana generally seems to have advised its clients to retain the holdings in question. In 
these circumstances, Im of the view that its not fair to say Mr C ought to have acted 
differently. 
Westerby has told us that its process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time 
it received an application to open a SIPP, and every time an advisors remuneration was to 
be paid. Westerby had received a number of introductions from Abana before 
November 2014. So, by the time Westerby wrote to Mr C in November 2014, it would have 
had many opportunities to discover that Abana didnt have the top-up permissions it 
needed to give advice or make arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. As such, its 
my view that for Westerby to have suggested that Mr C seek advice from Abana once 
problems with the funds hed invested in had come to light, is a further failing of Westerby in 
relation to its regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr C fairly. 
In its June 2015 letter to Mr C, Westerby had mentioned that Abana clients were being 
moved over to Abana (FS) Ltd  a UK based firm authorised by the FCA. Westerby then 
explained to Mr C in July 2015 that clients were no longer being moved over to Abana (FS) 
Ltd. And said it understood the reason for this was that Abana didnt consider Abana (FS) 
Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice on Mr Cs SIPP. Westerby also urged Mr C to have his SIPP reviewed by an IFA with the necessary 
permissions. I think that was a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances, which 
goes some way towards correcting Westerbys earlier failure to meet its regulatory 
obligations by referring Mr C back to Abana. 
While Ive not seen a copy of it on this case, as I understand it, Westerby wrote to some 
consumers in September 2015 and in the letter it explained that trading on the ePortfolio 
Solutions platform was suspended pending the appointment of new management and 
reconciliation of funds. This letter also stated that the Kijani Fund was suspended, the 
SAMAIF was suspended, the International Money Market Fund was suspended and that the 
TCA Global Fund could not be accessed due to the suspension of the ePortfolio Solutions 
platform pending appointment of new management. Regarding the Kijani Fund the letter also 
explained that there remained a high degree of uncertainty about the return of funds to 
investors and that it could take a number of years for matters to be dealt with completely.
I think it's likely that Westerby would also have sent Mr C a copy of this letter. So, for 
completeness, Ive also given consideration to any steps Mr C ought to have taken if he did 
receive such a letter in September 2015.
Mr C doesnt appear to have taken much action following these letters. In the June 2015 
letter Mr C was told of an investigation into the Kijani Fund, but he was told at the same time 
that hed be getting his money back. And the letter from September 2015 then explained that 
all trading on the ePortfolio Solutions platform had been suspended. So, I dont think it fair to 
say Mr C could, or should, have done anything further at that time. Thats because I think 
following the June 2015 update it was reasonable for Mr C to think he didnt need to do 
anything, and following the September 2015 update it was reasonable for him to conclude he 
couldnt do anything.
And Ive also noted that in the complaint that was the subject of the published decision 
Westerby has confirmed in a letter dated 21 December 2015 that it summarised the situation 
with the Kijani fund to the complainant in that case, in October 2015, as suspended, in 
liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will come back.
So, in any eventuality, I also think theres insufficient evidence to show any redemption 
request made in relation to the Kijani fund after Westerbys July 2015 letter would have been 
successful. 
There was then the December 2015 letter in which it was explained that a suspension on the 
SAMAIF might lift, but I think its fair to consider that by that point there was a lot of 
uncertainty surrounding the status of the fund and it wasnt at all clear what level of loss 
Mr C might be crystallising if he were to sell his investment. So, even if the suspension was 
lifted as envisaged, I dont think its fair to say Mr C has contributed to his loss by not 
ordering its redemption. 
In the December 2015 letter, Westerby referred to there being liquid funds of about £28,000 
available, but I dont think this was accurate as the majority of this was the SAMAIF holding 
which was suspended, and there was no independent verification of this value. And I see 
Westerby itself noted in its letter there was uncertainty around these funds. So, I dont think 
it fair to say there was (around) £28,000 available to Mr C at this time, or that he ought to 
have concluded that was the case.
And I also think the December 2015 letter is somewhat contradictory as it says the 
suspension of SAMAIF has been lifted but then says that the lift of the suspension is not yet 
active (i.e. its still suspended).  Ive seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains that the 
re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and suggests 
that work to begin trading is still ongoing. And I note that in June 2016 Westerby stated in a 
letter it sent to us in another complaint that SAMAIF still wasnt trading yet.
All of which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended for quite some time after the 
23 December 2015 letter and its not clear if that suspension was ever lifted. This appears to 
be consistent with what was said in the published decision, in which it was stated that the 
amount paid to the SIPP in that case likely came from another investment rather than the 
Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period 
in that case.
So, theres insufficient evidence to show a redemption request submitted after July 2015 
would have been successful. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out 
above, Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce 
the compensation amount that Westerby has to pay to Mr C.
Fair compensation
Westerby says that responsibility for Mr Cs loss should lie with Abana.
As set out above, I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr C to enter into 
a SIPP, could be responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Cs loss.
However, the complaint against Westerby is the complaint Im considering here. And for the 
reasons Ive set out earlier in this decision, I consider that Westerby has failed to comply 
with its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. Its therefore my view that its 
fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr C for the full measure of his losses  as 
Westerby could have put a stop to things if it had acted fairly and reasonably by rejecting 
Mr Cs application.
I therefore consider that in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to direct Westerby to 
compensate Mr C to the full extent of his losses.
In addition to the financial loss that Mr C has suffered as a result of the problems with his 
pension, I think that the losses suffered to Mr Cs pension provisions have caused Mr C 
distress as he is approaching his retirement and it is having an impact on his retirement 
planning. So, I think that its fair for Westerby to compensate Mr C for this as well.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr C to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Abana had the correct permissions to be providing advice on 
pensions in the UK and before accepting Mr Cs SIPP application from it.  
As Ive already mentioned above  if Mr C had sought advice from a different advisor, who 
was qualified to give pension switching advice, I think its more likely than not that the advice 
would have been to retain his existing pension plan. I think its unlikely that another advisor, 
acting properly, would have advised Mr C to transfer away from his existing pension plan. 
Alternatively, Mr C might have simply decided not to seek pensions advice elsewhere from a 
different advisor and still then retained his existing pension plans.
In light of the above, Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr C would be in if he hadnt transferred from his existing pension 
plan. In summary, Westerby should:1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Cs 
previous pension plan, if it hadnt been transferred to the SIPP.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Cs SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Cs share in any investments that cannot 
currently be redeemed.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Cs SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
6) Pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his 
pension have caused him.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, it should have the option of payment of the redress 
being contingent upon Mr C assigning any claim he may have against Abana to Westerby  
but only in so far as Mr C is compensated here. The terms of the assignment should require 
Westerby to account to Mr C for any amount it subsequently recovers against Abana that 
exceeds the loss paid to Mr C. Westerby would need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
assignment.
Ive explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation, set out in steps 1 - 6 above, in 
further detail below:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Cs previous 
pension plan, if it hadnt been transferred to the SIPP.
To date, weve received nothing to suggest Mr Cs previous pension was anything 
other than a defined contribution plan without any guarantees attached, so Ive 
proceeded on that basis.
Westerby should ask the operator of Mr Cs previous pension plan to calculate the 
current notional value of Mr Cs plan, as at the date of this decision, had he not 
transferred into the SIPP. Westerby must also ask the same operator to make a 
notional allowance in the calculations, so as to allow for any additional sums Mr C 
has contributed to, or withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since the outset. To be 
clear this doesnt include SIPP charges or fees paid to third parties like an advisor.
Any notional contributions or notional withdrawals to be allowed for in the calculations 
should be deemed to have occurred on the date on which monies were actually 
credited to, or withdrawn from, the Westerby SIPP by Mr C. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from the operator of 
Mr Cs previous pension plan, Westerby should instead calculate a notional valuation 
by ascertaining what the monies transferred away from the plan would now be worth, 
as at the date of this decision, had they achieved a return from the date of transfer 
equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index).Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved over the period in question. And, again, there should be a notional 
allowance in this calculation for any additional sums Mr C has contributed to, or 
withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since the outset.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Cs SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges. 
This should be the current value as at the date of this decision.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
The total sum calculated in step 1) minus the sum arrived at in step 2), is the loss to 
Mr Cs pension provisions.
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Cs share in any investments that cannot currently 
be redeemed.
Im satisfied that Mr Cs Westerby SIPP only still exists because of the illiquid 
investments that are held within it. And that but for these investments Mr Cs monies 
could have been transferred away from Westerby. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP. 
To do this Westerby should reach an amount its willing to accept as a commercial 
value for the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the 
relevant investments.
If Westerby is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, then the actual value 
of any investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the purposes 
of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given a nil value 
for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Mr Cs SIPP in step 2).
If Westerby doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mr C to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive 
from these investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr C may receive from the investments, and any eventual 
sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Cs SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protections or allowances.
If Westerby is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Cs SIPP, or if doing so 
would give rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
6) Pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension 
have caused him.
In addition to the financial loss that Mr C has suffered as a result of the problems with 
his pension, I think that the loss suffered to Mr Cs pension provisions has caused 
Mr C distress. And I think that its fair for Westerby to compensate him for this as well.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr C to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, Westerby should pay an amount into 
Mr Cs SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP 
(based on the most recent years fees). Five years should allow enough time for the issues 
with the investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an 
alternative to this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by 
Mr Cs SIPP.  
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr C or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of Mr Cs acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation isnt 
paid within 28 days. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make an award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that Westerby 
Trustee Services Limited pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.
My final decision is that Westerby Trustee Services Limited must pay the amount produced 
by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience 
but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited pay Mr C the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £160,000, or if Westerby Trustee Services Limited accepts the 
recommendation to pay the full loss as calculated above, Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
should have the option of taking an assignment of Mr Cs rights in relation to any claim he 
may have against Abana, including the right to any future payment Abana may make to Mr C 
as part of the settlement agreed following the third-party review.
If the loss exceeds £160,000 and Westerby Trustee Services Limited does not accept the 
recommendation to pay the full amount, any assignment of Mr Cs rights should allow him to 
retain all rights to the difference between £160,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
If Westerby Trustee Services Limited elects to take an assignment of rights before paying 
compensation, it must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr C for his consideration 
and agreement. Any expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment should be met by 
Westerby Trustee Services Limited.
The recommendation isnt part of my determination or award Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C could accept the 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance and Mr C may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept the decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman