DRN-4299652
The complaint
Mr B complains that AWP P&C SA unfairly declined his claim for delayed baggage when he 
claimed on his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B was flying back to the United Kingdom (UK). When he landed in the UK he was 
informed his baggage hadnt been on his flight and would be sent on the next available flight. 
Mr B said he had an important meeting and needed items which were in his bag, such as his 
toiletry kit. He therefore checked his policy and thought they would be covered and 
purchased replacement items. 
Mr B kept the receipts for the items purchased and claimed on his policy with AWP. AWP 
reviewed the claim and declined it. It said the delayed baggage section only applied to 
outbound trips and as Mr B was on an inbound trip to the UK then his claim wasnt covered. 
Mr B didnt agree and complained, he said his interpretation of the wording was that the trip 
destination only applied to claims without receipts, and because he had receipts, he 
thought his claim should be covered. 
AWP reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It maintained its position that the delayed 
baggage section only applied to outbound trips and therefore Mr Bs claim wasnt covered. 
Unhappy with AWPs decision, Mr B referred his complaint here.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt think AWP had done anything wrong. She 
found the policy terms referred to the destination trip only and therefore agreed Mr Bs 
claim wasnt covered by the policy. Mr B didnt agree, he said destination isnt defined in 
the policy and therefore thought the terms could be interpreted to mean the inbound part of 
his trip. 
As Mr B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say:
If your baggage is delayed by a travel supplier during your trip, we 
will reimburse you for expenses you incur for the essential items you 
need until your baggage arrives, up to the maximum benefit for 
Baggage delay shown in the Benefits summary.
The terms go onto say:
2. If you do not provide receipts, the maximum amount payable is the 
No receipts limit shown in the Benefits summary. Only available for 
your outbound travel (not your return travel).
Ive also looked at the Benefits summary which says under the benefit section:
"Reimbursement for essential items in case of a delay in baggage arrival 
at the trip destination"
Ive considered this term and whether AWP has applied it fairly and Im satisfied it has. I say 
this because when the term is read in full, along with the Benefits summary Im satisfied its 
clear the benefit only applies to the trip destination. 
Ive also considered that Mr B has said that destination isnt defined in the policy and 
therefore could mean his inbound trip. Having done so I dont agree that means AWP has 
acted unfairly in this case. I say this after considering the use of the word destination and 
looking at its ordinary everyday meaning. Most definitions of the word destination tend to 
refer to it as the place someone or something is being sent. And when interpreting the use of 
the word in the context its used in the policy, Im satisfied that would mean the location Mr B 
travelled to on his outbound journey. It therefore follows that Im not persuaded AWP has 
acted unfairly in declining Mr Bs claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman