DRN-3315105
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd has declined to refund him for payments he transferred 
when he fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr H resides in Sweden. In late 2019, he found what appeared to be an investment 
opportunity with a trader I will refer to as C. He created an account with a cryptocurrency 
wallet provider (which I will refer to as L) to facilitate sending payments to C. Mr H also 
created an account with Revolut on 5 December 2019.
After some initial contact with C, he communicated with the trader via an instant messaging 
service. Mr H has provided screenshots showing some of this conversation. This includes a 
message he sent to C on 13 December 2019, in which he explained hed been talking to his 
own bank (S) that same day. He explained that S was stopping his transactions to L and 
Revolut, and had told him that C was a scam, which was not permitted to trade in Sweden.
He further explained that hed also spoken with the Swedish financial regulator which had 
similarly told him that C was not permitted to carry out business in Sweden, that he would 
not be able to recover any money from C, and that there was nothing to show that it wasnt 
simply a scam.
C assured Mr H that this wasnt true. Mr H was told by the scammer that the regulator and 
his bank were potentially acting against the law in attempting to stop him moving his money 
out of Sweden. He was told this might be linked to problems in Swedens banking system.
Mr H was convinced and he was keen to pursue the trading opportunity. After some 
difficulties, he was able to transfer money from his account with S into his new Revolut 
account, and then transfer to his wallet account with L. From there he was able to transfer 
the funds to C.
The messages he was exchanging with C suggest the trading was not going well, and on 
30 December 2019 he messaged C saying he was unhappy as trades appeared on his 
account with C that he hadnt authorised. He asked C to call him, saying I have obviously 
been scammed. However, it appears Mr H may have been subsequently reassured 
because he continued to deal with C.
Mr H transferred multiple further payments via Revolut to L and then onto C, until a final 
payment in April 2020. At the end of May, Mr H reported this to Revolut as a scam. Revolut 
records the total loss Mr H reported as being the sum of 101,147 Euro.
Revolut noted that Mr H had been transferring the money via Revolut to Mr Hs own account 
with L. It said the losses had actually only happened when hed sent the funds onward from 
L to C. Revolut said it was therefore not liable to Mr H for the money hed lost, and directed 
him to raise the matter with L.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said that Revolut hadnt done enough to protect him. In particular, 
he said if it had given him a warning or questioned him when he was sending the payments 
this would have caused him to pause and look more closely into either L or C before 
proceeding. He said that a warning from Revolut about the risk of scams would have 
probably exposed the traders false pretences and so caused him to stop trading.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint. He sympathised with the situation Mr H was 
in. But he didnt think Revolut was liable to refund Mr H. He noted that Mr H had disregarded 
warnings about this being a scam during discussions with his bank S and the Swedish 
financial regulator before hed made any of the payments via Revolut. So he didnt think a 
similar warning or intervention by Revolut would likely have made any difference, and that 
Mr H would have still taken steps to transfer the money to C.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view, so I have been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr H. I can understand entirely why he 
feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him, and why he doesnt accept that 
Revolut isnt responsible to refund him.
Its important to clearly acknowledge that Mr H has been the victim of a crime here. Mr H has 
explained about the significant impact this has had on him. He details how he was cruelly 
deceived by a scam that lead him to believe he was investing his money and making 
significant profits. Hes been left out of pocket by a significant sum as a result of this scam.
However, the main cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mr H. For me to 
say Revolut is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and 
should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in 
some other way.
I accept that the payments he made out of his Revolut account were authorised transactions, 
even though Mr H was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He authorised the payments and 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 he is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection against authorised push payment 
scams such as this (the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). Revolut is 
not a signatory to this code. But even if it were, the CRM Code only applies to payments 
made directly to another person  payments made to a customers own accounts arent 
covered by the CRM Code. That means the CRM Code provisions are not relevant to Mr Hs 
complaint  his payment instruction was to send money from Revolut to an account held in 
his own name at L.But the CRM Code is not the full extent of the protections that could apply in cases such as 
this. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Revolut 
should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Given this, Ive thought carefully about Revoluts obligations in this specific set of 
circumstances. I must of course, take into account that Mr H was a new customer without 
previous activity for Revolut to compare his actions against. Ive also taken into 
consideration the role Revolut had here  it wasnt the only financial institution involved. 
Rather, Mr Hs Revolut account was one of the multiple steps taken from Mr Hs originating 
bank accounts to the scammer. 
On this point Revolut observes that the transfer from its account to Mr Hs own account 
with L is not the point at which Mr H actually suffered a loss. The payments he made from 
Revolut to L were to an account hed set up and controlled himself. The funds ostensibly 
remained under his control up to and including the point they were received in that account 
with L, and the loss didnt occur at least until the later transfer out of the account with L, and 
its receipt by C.
This argument implies that the losses occurred later than the transfer from Revolut, involved 
other financial institutions, and required further action by Mr H and possibly others. Now, I do 
not have the power to consider a complaint about L (or indeed about C or S). But of course, 
the fact that I only have the power to consider the complaint made about Revolut and not the 
other parties involved here does not mean I must necessarily find that it is Revolut which 
should bear liability for Mr Hs losses.
Nonetheless, I have given careful consideration to whether Revolut should bear some 
responsibility for the eventual loss. As noted above, I am mindful that when Mr H made 
these payments, Revoluts duty extended beyond the initial obligation to make the payment 
in line with his instructions.
Mr H was making a sequence of large payments here to a new payee. Arguably, given the 
frequency and amount of these payments Revolut could have identified these as unusual. I 
think it would be fair to say that there was a risk, as with any other payments, that these 
might be fraudulent in nature. However, Revolut has explained why these appeared 
unremarkable in the context of the typical pattern of new account usage for this type of 
account. Significantly, this was a newly created account without a prior history against which 
to establish a different pattern of usage.
All things considered, I find the evidence is ambiguous as to whether there were sufficient 
grounds for Revolut to have had concerns here. But in any event, I do not need to make a finding on that point  I do not consider it would 
have made a difference either way. Had Revolut intervened by contacting Mr H prior to 
processing one or more of the payments, I am not satisfied in this specific case that the 
scam would have been prevented. 
I say this considering that when both the Swedish financial regulator and Mr Hs bank S 
spoke to him and expressed concerns (variously that C was a scam, that C was not 
permitted to conduct any business in Sweden, and that hed likely be unable to recover any 
money from C) the evidence shows Mr H acknowledged those concerns but was not 
stopped by them.
These discussions and warnings did not dissuade him from proceeding and Mr H took steps 
to find a way of still being able to make the payments he wanted to make. The message 
history shows he was cruelly deceived by the scammer into believing that the regulator and 
his bank S would do anything (including taking steps that werent legal) to prevent him 
moving his money to C. 
It seems to me that Mr H was already firmly under the scammers spell by this point. He 
believed the scammer over what he was being told by his bank S and by the Swedish 
financial regulator.
In light of this, I dont think the provision even of a specific scam warning by Revolut would 
likely have prevented the eventual loss from occurring. Further I dont think any reasonable 
level of intervention by Revolut would have prevented the loss either. I wouldnt expect 
Revolut to have gone further than S or the Swedish regulator had already done.
I also dont think Revolut was in a position to know more than either S or the regulator about 
whether the ultimate destination of the money was legitimate or not. That was still at least 
one step removed from the payments made via Revolut.
In short, given Mr H had not been stopped by the warnings of S or the regulator, I cant 
reasonably expect that Revoluts similar action would have made more of a difference (even 
in the event I was to find a sufficient ground for it to have taken such action). 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont require Revolut to reimburse Mr H. In 
saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr H and I 
am sorry he has lost out. 
Mr H was the victim of a crime and a cruel scam carefully designed to defraud him of his 
money. I appreciate hes lost a very significant sum and hes detailed the impact all of this 
has had for him. But it is simply the case that in all of the circumstances, I cant fairly say 
Revolut is liable for the losses he incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint about Revolut Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman