DRN-3689114
The complaint
Mr M complains about a decision taken by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) to not
compensate him for a disputed credit card transaction.
What happened
On 16 March 2020 Mr M agreed to purchase, from a company that I will call B, a used car
costing £13,500. The car was approximately 18 months old and had travelled approximately
4,000 miles.
Mr M paid B £1,000 towards the purchase price of the car using his Nationwide credit card,
leaving a balance to pay of £12,500 by other means.
On 19 March 2020 Mr M paid, by other means, £250 to a company that I will call S to
transport the car from B to his house.
After taking possession of the car Mr M says he noticed a number of scratches on it that he
was unhappy about.
Mr M complained to B about the scratches. B, as a gesture of goodwill, agreed to repair the
scratches if Mr M returned the car to it. But Mr M wasnt prepared to do so given how far
away B was located from his house.
In early July 2020, and unhappy with Bs response to his complaint, Mr M completed a
disputed credit card transaction form which he sent to Nationwide for its consideration.
On 10 December 2020 Nationwide wrote to Mr M to acknowledge his claim and to confirm
that it would be reviewed under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
On 29 December 2020 Nationwide wrote to Mr M to say that his claim had been reviewed
under section 75 and there was no basis to uphold it (on misrepresentation grounds or
breach of contact grounds).
On 25 January 2021 Nationwide issued Mr M with a final response letter (FRL). Under
cover of this FRL Nationwide said:
After reviewing your claim under Section 75 Im sorry to say that we have no basis to raise a
claim against the merchant on this occasion.
This is because we are unable to evidence who is at fault regarding the scratches on your
vehicle. I do appreciate you feel these scratches happened prior to delivery however, as you
hadnt seen the vehicle before it was delivered there is no way of demonstrating this. Also,
as the delivery was not paid using your Nationwide Credit Card, we cannot be held liable for
any breach of contract and there is no way to evidence which party is in breach at this time.
However, Nationwide agreed to pay (and paid) Mr M £25 for poor service, this being in
addition to £75 it had paid previously for the same reason.
Unhappy with Nationwides FRL, Mr M referred matters to our service.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that
Nationwide, in all the circumstances, had done nothing wrong in declining Mr Ms claim.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary he said:
Scratches constitute damage to a car, not wear and tear.
He specifically asked B, before agreeing to purchase the car, whether  amongst
other things  it had any scratches and he was advised no.
The car was videoed by S after it had been passed into its custody by B for
transportation to his house. This video doesnt show any of the scratches he is
complaining about, but given it was raining this is understandable.
The investigator considered Mr Ms response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change
her mind. Therefore, Mr Ms complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
In July 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of its here), I reach
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Mr M has strong feelings about what happened, and I want to assure him that
Ive considered everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every single
point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it, Ive. But, Im going to
concentrate in this decision on the key issues that I think are relevant and material to
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall.
When dealing with disputes of the type raised by Mr M there are two ways in which they can
be considered by a business, section 75 and chargeback.
section 75
Section 75 says that in certain circumstances, the borrower (Mr M) under a credit agreement
has a like right to claim against the credit provider (Nationwide) as against the supplier (B) if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (B).
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 were
met and Mr M was therefore able to make a claim against Nationwide for misrepresentation
by B and/or a breach of contract by it.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.breach of contract
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be
considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the
price and all the other relevant circumstances.
Now it could be said, like pointed out by the investigator, that the scratches Mr M is
complaining about dont make the car of unsatisfactory quality, regardless of when these
scratches occurred. Furthermore, Ive seen nothing in the advertisement, or the order form,
that the car was being supplied completely scratch free, something which I accept could be
implied in a contract for a new car, but not a used car. But I dont need to make a finding on
this point because of what I say below.
I dont dispute that there are a number of scratches to the car. But based on what both
parties have said and submitted Im not persuaded that Nationwide acted unfairly or
unreasonably in concluding that there was simply insufficient evidence to be able to
conclude that these scratches were present on the car before it left B. In other words, it was
just as likely, or even more likely, that the scratches to the car occurred whilst the car was in
the custody of S or after Mr M took possession of it.
In coming to the above finding Ive had regard to, amongst other things, the following:
Regardless of what Mr M has said on this point, Im satisfied that he appointed S to
the deliver the car to him and so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold B
responsible for any damage caused to the car by S.
I find Bs submission that on taking custody of the car S was happy with its condition
and felt no need to bring to its attention any damage to it, to be both plausible and
persuasive.
Despite what Mr M says about the weather, the video taken of the car by B, once it
was in its custody, doesnt show any scratches to it.
Despite what Mr M says about the weather, he accepts that he didnt notice any
scratches to the car when he took possession of it from S. And I would expect him to
have satisfied himself, regardless of the weather, the condition of the car before
agreeing to take possession of it.
Despite what Mr M says about the weather, he didnt raise any concerns about
scratches being present on the car until 24 or 25 March 2020, some four to five days
after he had taken possession of it.
I would also add that even if I had concluded there had been a breach of contract by B in
supplying Mr M with a car that was scratched I dont think I would have directed Nationwide
to have done anything further given that B had offered  as a gesture of goodwill  to
undertake repairs.
misrepresentation
I note that Mr M says he was advised by B that the car was scratch free. Now I cant say for
certain that Mr M wasnt advised this. But because of my findings above I need make no
finding on this point. In other words, as Im satisfied that it cant be said the scratches
occurred before the car left the custody/possession of B, it follows I cant say being advised
the car was scratch free constitutes a misrepresentation.chargeback
This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and
merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules. In certain
circumstances the process provides a way for Nationwide to ask for a payment Mr M made
to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied or as
described by the company Mr M paid.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund and there is no obligation on Nationwide to submit
a chargeback. However, I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted
where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Now in this case Nationwide didnt attempt a chargeback and has provided our service for its
reasons for not doing so. Ive considered the reasons Nationwide has given for not raising a
chargeback, but Im satisfied that I dont need to make a finding on whether these reasons
are valid.
This is because in my view had Nationwide instigated a chargeback it would have been, on
the balance of probabilities, defended by the merchant (B) and it would havent been
unreasonable for Nationwide to then conclude that the chargeback had no reasonable
prospect of success. For the sake of completeness, I would add that in concluding the above
Ive had regard to what B has said on this matter to date and which has been provided to our
service by Nationwide.
other matters
I know Mr M is concerned about a potential breach by B of the Distance Selling Regulations.
But a failure to comply with those regulations, if indeed this is what happened, is something
quite different to a breach of contract and I cant look at this against Nationwide.
I accept that Nationwide could have handled matters better than it did. But having paid Mr M
£100 for its (poor) handling of matters, Im satisfied it need do nothing further in this respect.
Nationwide responded to my provisional findings to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr M responded to my provisional findings to say, in summary:
Although he paid S to deliver the car, he didnt arrange it to do so, B did so.
He didnt instruct S to look over the car, so he doesnt understand why I concluded 
that I found Bs submission that on taking custody of the car S was happy with its 
condition and felt no need to bring to its attention any damage to it, to be both 
plausible and persuasive.
He stands by his submission that given the weather the scratches about which he is 
complaining wouldnt have been picked up by S, in the video taken by S, or by him 
on delivery.
He notified B of the scratches as soon as they came to his attention, this being after 
the weather had improved and after he was able to wipe down the car.
B might have offered to repair the scratches if he returned the car to it, but this was 
simply not possible or practical given where B was based and given that government 
advice at the time wasnt to travel. Furthermore, having the scratches repaired locally 
was a sensible and pragmatic way of dealing with matters.The number of scratches and the location of the same surely means that its more 
likely than not they were caused by the previous owner of the car and not S or him. 
There are also a number of ways to temporarily hide scratches from sight of a 
potential buyer. 
Bs failure to provide him with details of the Distance Selling Regulations constitutes 
a breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that B might have arranged for S to deliver the car to Mr M, but as Mr M paid S 
for that delivery Im satisfied he was the contracting party. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to hold B responsible for any damage caused to the car by S.
I stand by my finding that Bs submission that on taking custody of the car S was happy with 
its condition and felt no need to bring to its attention any damage to it is both plausible and 
persuasive.
Its standard for a company taking custody of a car to bring to the attention of the company 
handing over custody any damage (including scratches) to protect its position in case there 
is a dispute later, as ultimately whats happened here.
Unfortunately for Mr M, regardless of the weather, he accepted delivery of the car and didnt 
raise any concerns about a possible misrepresentation by B, or a breach of contract by B, 
until some days later. So, I remain of the view that Nationwide acted entirely fairly and 
reasonably in declining his section 75 claim. 
For the sake of completeness, I would add  that I never concluded that the failure on the part 
of S and Mr M (on taking delivery of the car) to notice any scratches on it was 
understandable given the weather. When I said  the car was videoed by S after it had been 
passed into its custody by B for transportation to his house. This video doesnt show any of 
the scratches he is complaining about, but given it was raining this is understandable I was 
simply summarising Mr Ms view on this particular point, not mine.
I note Mr M says he notified B of the scratches as soon as they came to his attention, this 
being after the weather had improved and after he was able to wipe down the car. But 
unfortunately for Mr M this delay, and whatever the reason for it, simply means I remain of 
the view  that Nationwide acted entirely fairly and reasonably in declining his section 75 
claim. 
In my provisional decision I said that I would also add that even if I had concluded there had 
been a breach of contract by B in supplying Mr M with a car that was scratched I dont think I 
would have directed Nationwide to have done anything further given that B had offered  as 
a gesture of goodwill  to undertake repairs. 
I still remain of this view, but it isnt material to the outcome of this complaint. This is 
because I remain of the view that there is simply insufficient evidence for me to be able to 
conclude there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by B.I accept that I cant discount entirely the possibility that the car was provided to Mr M by B 
with scratches present. But what Im deciding here is whether Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr Ms claim based on what it was provided with. And I remain of the 
view that given what Nationwide was provided with it acted both fairly and reasonably in 
declining Mr Ms section 75 claim.
I still remain of the view that any possible breach of the Distance Selling Regulations is quite 
different to a breach of contract and I cant look at this against Nationwide. But I would also 
add that Im satisfied that the sale subject to this complaint was conducted at a distance as 
a one off and B doesnt operate under an organised sales scheme.
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed but given what I say above I can confirm I see no 
reason to depart form my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society need do nothing further in respect of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman