DRN-4211728
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr C with a loan for £2,000.00 in May 2016. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £242.97. One of our adjudicators reviewed what         
Mr C and 118 118 Money had told us. And he thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be 
upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr C could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr C has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and 118 118 Money have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that this was Mr Cs first loan with 118 118 Money. And 118 118 Money has 
provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded at the time of Mr Cs 
application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr C didnt have too much in the way of 
existing debt. And while Mr C had a sole missed payment, I think its also fair to say that the 
rest of his commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to 
the credit searches, Mr Cs debt total at the time of the application was reasonable in 
comparison to his income. 
Furthermore, even if I were to accept that 118 118 Money ought to have gone into the depth 
of checks Mr C appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  
the information provided doesnt suggest that it wouldnt have provided this loan. This is 
because the information provided now also suggests the loan payments were affordable. 
I accept that Mr C appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information hes provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained 
at the time. However, 118 118 Money could only make a reasonable decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. And as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was 
arranging for Mr C and there wasnt a history of Mr C obtaining funds and returning for more, 
given the circumstances here, Im satisfied that 118 118 Money was reasonably entitled to 
believe that Mr C would be left in a better position as a result of taking this loan.
In any event, given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont 
think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended further than finding out 
a bit more about Mr Cs normal monthly living costs, which, in any event, wouldnt have 
shown the loan to be unaffordable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr C  in my view, proportionate checks would more likely than not have suggested 
the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman