DRN-2899659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) has 
turned down claims they made under their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont detail them in full again 
here. 
Mr and Mrs B purchased a house and soon after found there were issues with it which they 
believe should have been picked up on the pre purchase survey. Mr and Mrs B made a 
claim to DAS to cover the legal costs of claims they wanted to make against the surveyor for 
professional negligence and, the seller of the property for misrepresentation. 
DAS declined to provide cover for either claim. It said Mr and Mrs B werent party to the 
contract with the surveyor, therefore the policy doesnt provide cover for the claim they want 
to make. It also said the misrepresentation claim wouldnt be covered as the event took 
place before Mr and Mrs B took out the policy. 
An investigator looked into the case and said that she didnt think DAS had done anything 
wrong. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. 
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Im satisfied under the contract dispute section of Mr and Mrs Bs policy it is clear that 
cover will only be provided where Mr and Mrs B themselves have entered into a 
contract  and that contract had to be entered into during the period of insurance. 
The sellers of property Mr and Mrs B were purchasing were the ones that entered 
into the contract with the surveyors. And as such, Im satisfied DAS have correctly 
declined this claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I have considered what Mr and Mrs B have said about how the law operates in the 
area of the United Kingdom where they live, however this doesnt change my 
decision.  Mr and Mrs B may well have legal recourse against the surveyors, 
however my decision simply is that DAS doesnt have to pay to fund that under the 
terms of this policy. 
The policy doesnt cover events that happen before the start date of it. Mr and 
Mrs Bs policy was taken out after they agreed on terms of sale for the property. 
Because of this, I dont think DAS has unreasonably concluded that a claim for 
misrepresentation by the seller wouldnt be covered under the policy as it would have 
happened before its start date.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman