DRN-3204896
The complaint
Mr A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim he made on a home 
insurance policy.
Mr A is represented in his dealings with our service. Where I refer to Mr A within this 
decision, this includes this representative.
Similarly, where I refer to AXA within this decision, this includes agents and representatives 
acting on its behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events 
below:
Mr A insures a property with AXA.
In 2016 he contacted AXA to report that there was damage caused by cracking to 
parts of the property.
AXA accepted that some of the damage at the rear of the property was caused by 
subsidence. This was being caused by trees owned by a local authority who were 
contacted to remove the trees in question.
AXA declined cover for the damage to another part of the property  a gable wall. 
AXA said that this damage was caused by a failure of lateral restraint due to the 
increased load resulting from structural works to the property.
Mr A didnt accept this and complained to AXA. AXA rejected Mr As complaint. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator concluded that AXA had acted reasonably. Mr A proposed 
appointing a structural engineer to investigate the cause of the damage to the 
disputed gable wall. AXA said it was satisfied with the conclusions its appointed 
representatives had made. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to ask AXA to do any 
more.
Mr A didnt accept this and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXAs actions in respect of the damage to the rear of the property arent the subject of the 
complaint here. What I need to decide is whether AXA acted fairly when it declined cover for 
the damage to the side wall. 
When making a claim on an insurance policy, its the policyholders responsibility to show 
that the claim is covered. Where an insurer seeks to decline cover based on an exclusion in 
the policy terms and conditions, the onus is on the insurer to show that it applies.
In order for a subsidence claim to be accepted, the damage needs to have been caused by 
subsidence  the movement of the ground beneath a propertys foundations. So it falls to me 
to consider whether subsidence is the most likely cause of the cracking and damage to the 
side wall at Mr A's property. It hasnt been suggested that any other insured peril of Mr As 
policy could apply to the circumstances of the claim.
Mr As position here is that the damage has been caused by subsidence. As an alternative to 
our service concluding that this is the case, hes suggested that we require AXA to be bound 
by the findings of a further expert who would inspect the property and carry out 
investigations to establish the cause of the damage. 
AXA takes the view that the most likely cause of the damage is the failure of the lateral 
restraint in the wall, which has occurred because of the load placed on the wall by a loft 
conversion and addition of a dormer. 
The evidence suggests that as far back as 2016, an engineer noted the nature of the 
damage, with the wall bowing outwards, was consistent with lateral movement and the lack 
of internal lateral ties. Works had been carried out in the years preceding this by Mr A on the 
upper levels of the property which would have caused additional loading to the wall in 
question.
In 2016, this engineer concluded that the alterations to the property had resulted in 
additional loading. When combined with the lack of internal ties, this could have resulted in 
the lateral movement to the wall and caused the damage.
AXA also took the view that drawings of the works to add the dormer to the property didnt 
detail any alterations to the roof or how the loading on the walls could be changed due to the 
works.
Further engineers appointed by AXA in 2018 and 2019 concluded that the most likely origin 
of the damage was the structural alterations. This was because the pattern of the damage 
was consistent with inadequate lateral restraint and would have been made worse by 
additional weight from the loft conversion.
The engineer appointed in 2018 also concluded that in order for subsidence to be the most 
likely cause of damage, they would expect to see seasonal movement of the wall, but that 
monitoring results didnt show this. They also noted that the damage having occurred after 
the loft conversion works was persuasive evidence that the damage was caused by 
additional loading to the wall as a result of those works.
AXA also sought to recover costs from the local authority as the cause of subsidence to the 
property was a tree owned by the local authority. Solicitors acting for the local authority said 
in their view the cause of the damage to the side wall was poor construction of the works 
carried out by Mr A.
So on balance I think that AXAs relied on multiple reports over a number of years when it 
concluded that subsidence wasnt the cause of the damage to the side wall. 
By contrast, Mr As position that the damage is caused by subsidence appears to be based 
on an engineers report from 2019 which concluded that the wall was vulnerable to damage 
due to inadequate lateral ties but had been exacerbated by subsidence, and photographs of 
the damage indicating that the floor at this end of the property has sunk, which he says is a 
sure sign that there has been subsidence. He also says that the works carried out at the 
property were signed off by the appropriate authorities and complied with building 
regulations.Ill address the photographs first. Unfortunately, Im unable to accept these as evidence of 
subsidence at this part of the property. I dont have anything to compare them to, for 
example photographs of the same area before the damage occurred, or photographs of 
other parts of the property. While theyve been submitted by the loss assessor appointed by 
Mr A, who has significant experience of these matters, they arent supported or commented 
on by any engineer, surveyor or otherwise suitably qualified expert in subsidence, 
construction or ground movement. The photos also dont address the issue of the impact of 
the works carried out on the property which there seems to be no dispute would have 
increased the loading on the wall.
The report referenced by Mr A also doesnt persuade me that AXAs conclusion about the 
cause of the damage is flawed. Of significance is that the structural works and alterations 
carried out to the property, and the impact on the loading of the wall, isnt addressed. On that 
basis, this report doesnt persuade me that the damage has been caused by subsidence.
Mr A also believes that AXA changed its position on the cause of the damage to the wall 
after the local authority refused to indemnify its costs. I dont agree here  the evidence I 
have is that AXA had been made aware of the underlying cause of the damage to the wall 
(the excessive loading and inadequate restraint) prior to being in contact with the local 
authority.
While Mr A has said that the works on the property complied with the relevant regulations, 
no documents have been provided to this effect. In any case, the issue which has been 
identified is about the quality of the works and the adequacy of restraints, not whether the 
works complied with building regulations.
In effect, Mr A argues that AXA is inclined to seek and prefer reports from its appointed 
representatives that the cause of the damage isnt covered by the policy. Im satisfied that 
the reports referred to by AXA are evidence based and prepared by suitably qualified 
experts, and on that basis its fair for AXA to rely on the conclusions within them.
Ive considered whether I should ask AXA to arrange for a further independent expert to give 
an opinion on the cause of the damage. Im not persuaded that I should. As Ive outlined 
above, there are multiple reports and opinions from different sources which support AXAs 
position and Im not satisfied that Mr A has given a suitably compelling reason for why these 
are flawed, such as by identifying that inaccurate or incorrect enquiries have been 
undertaken. On the basis that I dont have any report from an expert which on balance 
persuades me that AXAs conclusions are incorrect, I dont think its necessary or reasonable 
to ask for further investigations or enquiries to be undertaken.
I think its fair for AXA to have concluded that the cause of the damage was not subsidence 
but rather the failure of lateral restraint caused by excessive loads on the wall. The cause 
isnt covered by Mr As policy. I conclude that AXA acted reasonably in denying cover for Mr 
As claim for the damage to the side wall.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman