DRN-3319169
The complaint
Mr M complains, in summary, about the customer service provided by Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, (ELL), in respect of a loan provided to him by ELL.
What happened
ELL provided Mr M with a loan for £2,000 in October 2019. The loan was to be repaid by    
24 monthly payments of £189.68. The interest rate was 94.9% (149.3% APR). If Mr M made 
each payment when it was due, hed pay £4,552.32 in total. Mr M missed some payments 
following his employment being terminated as a result of the Covid pandemic and ELL 
agreed to reschedule the loan. The end date of the loan was subsequently extended until     
1 April 2022. ELL said it charged Mr M no additional interest for this.
There are four main aspects to Mr Ms complaint. 
1. He is unhappy that two payments had been deducted from his bank account in         
March 2020 which had left him in extreme financial difficulty. He said that he had 
previously phoned and emailed ELLs branch well in advance of these payments to 
tell it he had lost his job due to the Covid pandemic and that they should not attempt 
to claim his payments. He received conflicting information from ELL about a refund 
and was told hed receive a call about the deferment process and the refund which 
didnt happen. 
2. Mr M complains that the early settlement quotes he received were incorrect and he 
wasnt alerted to the early settlement calculation method the lender used when he 
took out the loan. Mr M said that the early settlement quote ELL provided in    
October 2020 was absurdly high and it included additional amounts which werent 
explained to him adequately when he took the loan out. Mr M believes a fair and 
reasonable settlement proposal would be for him to repay the loan amount of £2,000 
plus interest until April 2020 less the total amount of his repayments. He said that the 
loan terms enabled the loan to be repaid early without fees or charges.
3. Mr M is unhappy that ELL said that its systems couldnt provide him with an early 
settlement figure without him having to pay arrears. 
4. Mr M complains that ELL didnt respond to his requests for information. On
3 August 2020, Mr M spoke to ELL to say he wanted to settle the loan. He asked for             
information about the accrued interest and his repayments so he could work out a fair 
and reasonable settlement taking into consideration the poor service hed received. 
Mr M said he didnt receive a response. Subsequently Mr M was told by ELL that its 
system couldnt take off interest and charges from his account. So, he would have to 
repay his arrears in order that it could calculate a settlement figure. Mr M asked for 
confirmation that this was correct but didnt receive a response.
Mr M also asked for a formal apology for the treatment hed received from ELL.
In its first final response letter, ELL provided details of the two early settlement figures which 
Mr M requested in August 2020 and October 2020. ELL said that these were calculated in 
compliance with the format prescribed under the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004 (the Regulations) and pursuant to the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Under 
the Regulations, ELL said it was permitted to issue a settlement date for the purposes of 
calculating any rebate to which Mr M was entitled at a date falling 28 days from the date he 
requested the settlement figure. The lender was further permitted to defer the settlement 
date by 30 days more for the calculation of the rebate to which Mr M was entitled. This was 
also outlined in Condition 10 of the terms and conditions of Mr Ms loan agreement. So, ELL 
said that the settlement quotes were correct.
With regard to the delay in providing Mr M with a refund for the payments ELL had taken in 
error, ELL apologised for this administrative error. In addition, it offered Mr M £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this. 
ELL later issued a second final response letter. This said that ELLs branch office hadnt 
received Mr Ms email in March 2020 about his payments as it was in the process of being 
set up to work remotely. ELL also understood that Mr Ms attempts to contact the branch 
were also not a success. After Mr M complained about this, ELL contacted him and said that 
it would be able to arrange for any further due payments to be suspended for the following 
three months and that it would put his credit file on hold for the time being. ELL also 
attempted to contact Mr M in June 2020 on several occasions without success. 
The final response letter also said that on 3 August 2020, Mr M spoke to ELLs branch to 
discuss a fair early settlement amount. ELL said that the settlement figure was £2,835.77.  
Mr M said he wanted the unauthorised payments to be reflected in the offer as well as the 
way the account had been handled. Mr M said he was thinking of offering £1,300 to settle 
the loan. 
The letter also said that ELL had later contacted Mr M in October 2020 to say that his loan 
term had been extended to accommodate any missed payments during the Covid pandemic, 
and that he would not pay any more than he was due to pay it before the pandemic.
Mr M rejected ELLs offer of £200 compensation. He also said that he believed that ELL had 
failed to explain at the start of his loan that all the interest over the course of the loan was 
payable regardless of how early he wanted to settle the loan.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator provided detailed information in his view about the complaint, Mr Ms 
responses and ELLs final response letters. He noted that ELL had apologised for its delays 
in responding to the request for a refund and that it had offered Mr M £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. The adjudicator didnt consider that the offer was 
inappropriate under the circumstances. 
The adjudicator also referred to ELLs early settlement quotations and Mr Ms claims that 
they hadnt been calculated on a fair basis. This was because Mr M believed that if he was 
to repay the loan early, he would still be paying all the interest he would have had to pay if 
he kept the loan for the full two year term. The adjudicator referred to Condition 10.2 of the 
loans terms and conditions which said
Where you settle your agreement early, the full amount of interest which would have been
payable up to the end of the loan is payable, less any statutory rebate to which you might be
entitled. The adjudicator was unable to recommend that this part of Mr Ms complaint (together with 
the associated delays involved whilst Mr M disputed this matter with ELL) be upheld.
Mr M disagreed and he responded to say, in summary, that Condition 10.2 of the terms and 
conditions didnt say when the end of the loan was and ELL didnt tell him about the payment 
of 58 days interest on early settlement when he took out the loan.
The adjudicator raised Mr Ms response with ELL. The lender said that the loan term was 
scheduled to end on 1 November 2021. It also said that Mr Ms understanding of the 
additional 58 days interest was incorrect. The additional interest was added to the loan 
balance at the time when the early settlement figure was requested which had been shown 
in the breakdowns of the settlement figures set out in its final response letter. In addition, 
ELL said that the early settlement process was included in Condition 10 of its terms and 
conditions which Mr M signed to agree to when he agreed to the loan.
Mr M said that ELLs response was inadequate, and he still believed he had been mis-sold 
the loan. He noted that ELL had said that the 58 days interest gets added on to the loan 
balance, but he queried how ELL had worked out the loan balance. Hed received conflicting 
information when he phoned three of ELLs branches where each of ELLs advisers gave 
him different answers when he asked about settling the loan early, none of which was the 
same as what was written in ELLs final response letter. 
Secondly, Mr M said that he was misinformed before he signed the loan agreement. He 
specifically asked ELL if he could pay off the loan early and how this would work. After that 
conversation he was under the impression that he would repay the amount due up to the 
date of early settlement rather than the amount due for the full term. He was still yet to see a 
valid reasonable explanation of ELLs breakdown of charges/fees and interest and why the 
balance was so high when he asked for an early settlement quote. 
Mr M also said that before committing to the loan, he asked ELL if he could pay back the 
loan at any time and ELL said that he could do so without any early repayment charges. The 
58 day interest period wasnt mentioned, and the loan agreement also said that the loan 
could be paid off early at any time.
The adjudicator referred Mr Ms comments to ELL. It provided the comments of its salesman 
(who sold the loan to Mr M) who said:-
To be very honest with you in all my loan closes I always do refer to settlements and how
settlement charge is 58 days in line with the credit consumer act. I do say this on all loan 
closes and leave the room for over 5 min to then give the customer time to re-read the pre 
contract and contract and do inform them to also read the terms and conditions as well. I 
then normally go in and ask if they have any questions to then clarify. I then leave the room 
again to allow them to sign with a clear understanding. I believe I did do the same with this 
customer as I do this process with all my customers."
Mr M said in response to ELLs comments that he stood by his belief that he was 
misinformed when he took out the loan regardless of what ELLs salesman had said. He also 
provided the contents of a chat hed had with another loan provider about early settlement 
which he thought would be useful for the ombudsman to see to understand his point of view. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decisionAfter considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M
and to ELL on 12 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
I could see that the adjudicator had provided details of the complaint history up until the time 
of his view. I didnt want to completely replicate the information provided by the adjudicator  
in his view which both parties would already be aware of. But, for context, Id set out in some 
detail in my decision a summary of Mr Ms complaint points and ELLs responses which were 
provided both before and after the adjudicators view.
Id said that where information was conflicting or incomplete, I needed to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities, which was what Id done here.
There appeared to be four aspects to Mr Ms complaint, and Id dealt with these separately.
1.Refund of payments taken contrary to Mr Ms instructions
Id noted that ELL had accepted that it made an administrative error here and offered Mr M 
£200 compensation for this aspect of his complaint. As ELL had upheld this aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint, I didnt propose to investigate this aspect further. Mr M told this Service that he 
could accept the amount of £200 as compensation for this aspect of his complaint if I felt this 
was appropriate. I thought £200 compensation was appropriate here for the trouble caused 
to Mr M by ELLs error.
2.Mr Ms mis-selling claims and the early settlement figures
Id noted that Mr M said that he wasnt told when he took out the loan that he would have to 
pay 58 days interest at early settlement. Id also noted that Mr M complained that all the 
interest over the course of the loan was payable regardless of how early he wanted to settle 
the loan. 
Id noted that ELL said in its final response letter that it had calculated the early settlement 
figure in compliance with the format prescribed under the Regulations. 
Mr M told this service  that before committing to the loan agreement, hed wanted to make 
sure he could pay back the loan at any time and to his recollection, ELLs salesman replied 
that he could without any early repayment charges. Mr M also said that ELLs salesman 
didnt mention that he would have to pay 58 days interest on early settlement. 
The adjudicator  asked  ELL for its comments  and it responded  by providing  ELLs  
salesmans  comments  which  Id set out above.
Overall,  whilst  it wasnt  possible  for me to know  for certain  what  was discussed  
between  Mr M and ELLs  salesman,  on balance,  I couldnt  safely  say that Mr M wasnt  
told by the salesman  about  the 58 days  interest  payable  on early  settlement.  ELLs  
salesman  also said that he gave  all his customers  time to read the loan terms  and 
conditions,  and I thought  it was more  likely  than not that he did the same  with Mr M, 
and that Mr M was given  an opportunity  to read these  before  he signed  the loan 
agreement  and to ask questions.  
Even  if ELLs  salesman  had omitted  to refer  to the 58 days  interest  payable  on early  
settlement,  Mr M ought  to have  seen  this referred  to in Condition  10.2 of the loan terms  
and conditions  .
Id noted that Condition 10.1 and 10.2 of Mr Ms loan agreement with ELL said10.1  You have  the right under  section  94 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974  to 
repay  early  in full or in part.  If you wish  to pay any amount  early  you must  give 
notice  to us either  by contacting  your branch,  writing  to us  telephoning  usor  
emailing  us at [ELLs  email  address]
10.2 Where  you settle  your agreement  early,  the full amount  of interest  which  would  
have  been  payable  up to the end of the loan is payable,  less any statutory  rebate  to 
which  you may be entitled.  For the purposes  of calculating  the rebate,  we will defer  the 
settlement  date by 28 days  after we receive  your notice  of early  settlement  (this is how 
long the settlement  quote  is valid  for) and, if your agreement  term exceeds  one year,  
we would  defer  the settlement  date by a further  month  as prescribed  under  the 
Consumer  Credit  Act 1974.  This will mean  you will pay up to 58 days  interest.  We will 
send  you a statement  setting  out the amount  you should  pay, taking  into account  the 
statutory  rebate  to which  you may be entitled.
In the signature  box of the loan agreement  it said that the borrower  should  only sign it if 
he wanted  to be bound  by its terms.  And as Mr M signed  the agreement,  I couldnt  say 
that he didnt  agree  to be bound  by the agreement  terms.  And I couldnt  hold ELL 
responsible  if Mr M didnt  read the terms  and conditions.
Mr M said that the salesman  told him that he wouldnt  have  to pay any early  settlement  
charges.  I couldnt  see that ELL had charged  any early  settlement  fees,  although  it was 
entitled  to charge  additional  interest  under  the Regulations  and in line with           
Condition  10.2 of the terms  and conditions.  Id noted  that Mr M had sent this Service  a 
settlement  calculation  which  hed received  from ELL in October  2020.  This showed  the 
amount  of £64.99  which  was described  as a CCA  fee. But I could  see from ELLs  first 
final response  letter  that this was the amount  described  in that letter  as equivalent  to  
30 days  added  interest  due to the deferral  of the settlement  date.  So, I could  see it was 
interest  rather  than a fee.
I could  also see that Condition  10.2 referred  to the full amount  of interest  which  would  
have  been  payable  up to the end of the loan less any statutory  rebate  (my italics  for 
emphasis) . A rebate  needed to be made to ensure that the early settlement figure reflected 
the interest charged for the period the loan was open.  When  working  out any settlement  
figure,  a lender  had to work  out the total interest  payable  as if the loan had remained  
outstanding  for the full term.  That amount  was then reduced  by the interest  rebate  to 
reflect  that the loan was being  repaid  early.  
Id asked  the adjudicator  to ask ELL for copies  of the settlement  quotes  sent to Mr M in 
August  2020  and October  2020  which  ELL had provided.  I could  see that they contained  
the information  set out in the Consumer  Credit  (Settlement  Information)  Regulations  
1983  as later amended,  including  the total amount  left to pay and the interest  rebate  
amount.  So, I could  see that Mr Ms complaint  that all the interest over the course of the 
loan was payable regardless of how early he wanted to settle the loan, wasnt correct as the 
settlement quotes showed that an interest rebate had been made.
Id noted that Mr M didnt appear to have received these two settlement quotes, although 
ELLs contact notes said that the lender had sent Mr M a breakdown of the settlement and a 
statement of transactions on 12 August 2020. The notes also said that a breakdown of the 
settlement figure was requested and sent to Mr M on 26 October 2020. Both quotes were 
addressed to Mr M at his home address. So, it was likely they were sent by post. The 
address shown on the quotes appeared to be correct as it was the same as that in Mr Ms complaint form. On balance, I cannot hold ELL responsible for the failures of the postal 
service if the quotes didnt reach him.
Id asked the adjudicator to provide the settlement quotes to Mr M so that he could see that a 
rebate was deducted from the outstanding balance of the loan to provide a settlement figure. 
The settlement figures in the two quotes were the same as the total settlement figures set 
out in the first final response letter.  
I could also see that Mr M thought that the interest on the loan agreement was front loaded. I 
asked the adjudicator to ask ELL about this and it said that the interest on the agreement 
wasnt front loaded. Id noted that the loan agreement said that interest would be calculated 
on the daily balance outstanding on the Account and applied to the Account monthly on the 
date the Monthly Payments were due. So, I didnt think the loan terms reflected the interest 
being front loaded.
Id noted from listening to the recordings of the phone calls between Mr M and ELL that he 
was seeking a further discount on the early settlement figures to reflect the customer service 
difficulties hed had with ELL. But ELL wasnt under any obligation to provide a further 
discount to the early settlement quotes. 
Id also noted that Mr M had provided this Service with a copy of the chat between himself 
and another lender. But Id noted that each lender provides different products on different 
terms. It wasnt appropriate to use the response of the other lender for the purposes of 
resolving this complaint as the product terms and the circumstances might be very different.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt propose to uphold this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
3. ELLs request that Mr M pay arrears before being able to obtain an early settlement figure
Id asked the adjudicator to ask Mr M if he still wished this Service to investigate this aspect 
of his complaint further. Id noted that the adjudicators view didnt refer to this issue and that    
Mr M had made no comment about this in his responses to the adjudicators view.
Mr M responded to say that from his recollection and the conversation with ELLs branch he 
had to resume his monthly payments to bring the account back into good standing from 
arrears which he did. Once the account was active again, ELL could then provide him with a  
settlement figure. Mr M also said that he could recall being informed that a settlement figure 
could be generated without doing this.
Id also asked the adjudicator to ask ELL for its comments on this aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint. ELL said that an early settlement figure could be generated whilst the account 
was in arrears and it did provide settlement figures. 
Id noted from ELLs contact notes that ELL had sent Mr M a breakdown of the settlement 
and a statement of transactions on 12 August 2020 which was at a stage when the account 
was in arrears. 
On balance, as it appeared that a settlement figure could be provided at a time when the 
account was in arrears, I didnt propose to uphold this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
4.The lack of responses from ELL to some of Mr Ms requests
Mr M had also said in his complaint form that ELL didnt respond to some of his requests for 
information. Mr M said that on 3 August 2020 he spoke to ELL to say he wanted to settle the 
loan. Hed asked for information about the accrued interest and his repayments so he could work out a fair and reasonable settlement taking into consideration the poor service hed 
received. Mr M said he didnt receive a response. Subsequently Mr M said he was told by 
ELL that its system couldnt take off interest and charges from his account so he would have 
to repay his arrears so that ELL could calculate a settlement figure. Mr M asked for 
confirmation that this was correct but didnt receive a response. I could see that the lack of 
response in each of these cases would have been frustrating for Mr M and caused him 
inconvenience.
Id asked the adjudicator to ask ELL if it agreed that no response was provided within
a reasonable time in each case. ELL was also told that if responses hadnt been provided, 
that I considered that a total compensation amount of £50 would be appropriate for Mr Ms 
trouble and inconvenience caused by the lack of responses. ELL responded to say that it 
agreed with this. 
So, I intended to uphold this aspect of Mr Ms complaint and say that ELL should pay Mr M 
£50 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused by ELL in relation to it.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think ELL provided satisfactory customer service 
to Mr M in relation to the first and fourth aspects of his complaint. And subject to any further 
representations by Mr M or ELL, Id said that I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part 
and say that ELL should put things right as shown below. 
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
To settle Mr Ms complaint, ELL should pay Mr M a total of £250 compensation in relation to 
the first and fourth aspects of his complaint.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say that he was disappointed and disagreed 
with the decision, but he did appreciate the attention to detail and effort that was put into his 
case. For that reason, he didnt have any further information to add to his case that would be 
useful to me in making the final decision. But moving forward there were some things that he 
would like all parties to consider regarding the loan. He had fallen behind again on payments 
and he couldnt see his financial situation improving any time soon. So, hed said that he 
would appreciate an instalment plan that was flexible and reasonable for the remainder of 
the balance which wouldnt hurt his credit score. In addition, he would like the option of 
having the £250 compensation paid to him or deducted from the loan balance.  
ELL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision other than to respond to some 
queries Id asked the adjudicator to raise with it in relation to Mr Ms response to my 
provisional decision. There is more information on this below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
I asked the adjudicator to ask ELL to confirm that it was happy for the redress to be 
amended to reflect that Mr M had asked for the option to have the compensation Id awarded 
set off against the loan balance. ELL responded to say that it agreed to the compensation 
being set off against the loan balance, but it hasnt provided any comments on Mr M having 
the option to decide whether to receive the compensation or for it to be offset against the 
debt.I note that Mr M said he is suffering financial difficulties and that he is seeking a flexible and 
reasonable instalment plan which wont hurt his credit score. As ELL is obliged to follow the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) in relation to arrears 
difficulties, I would expect it to act in line with the provisions of CONC in dealing with Mr Ms 
arrears difficulties. 
As Mr M said he was suffering financial difficulties, Id also asked the adjudicator to tell ELL 
that I was proposing to amend my decision to reflect this and to ask for its comments on the 
amendment. The proposed amendment was to remind ELL of its obligations to treat Mr M 
sympathetically and positively if he was having difficulties repaying the loan. ELL responded 
to say that it was happy with this amendment.
Other than as set out above, Mr M and ELL have given me nothing further to consider. So, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision save for 
the amendments referred to above. It follows that I uphold this complaint in part and require 
ELL to take the steps set out below. I would also remind ELL of its obligations to treat Mr M 
sympathetically and positively if he is having difficulties repaying the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to pay 
compensation of £250 to Mr M for the inconvenience and upset he has been caused. 
I note theres an outstanding balance on Mr Ms account. ELL should give Mr M the option to 
decide if he wishes to receive the compensation of £250 or if he would like the compensation 
offset against his debt. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman