DRN-3687517
The complaint
Mr B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has unfairly continued 
to charge him for a package bank account when he has been unable to use the befits 
associated with the account.
Mr B is being represented by a third-party, for ease of reading I will refer to Mr B throughout 
my decision.
What happened
Mr B opened a free bank account in July 1975. In August 2000 Mr Bs account was 
upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Premier account, and in February 2012 the account 
was migrated to a Black account.
Mr B complains that he has not held a driving licence for some years, and he is also not 
eligible for the travel insurance that comes with the account due to his age. The national 
pandemic and his health conditions have also meant Mr B has been isolated and unable to 
make use of the benefits that come with the account.
Mr B says he finds digital communication challenging. He has always chosen to bank face to 
face in a branch and shouldnt, at his age, be expected to read emails he receives from the 
bank.
Mr B feels NatWest should have checked his account was still suitable and not have 
charged him for an account with benefits he was unable to take advantage of.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr B disagreed this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has not complained that he was mis-sold his account. Mr B has complained that the 
account became unsuitable for him and that NatWest should have realised this and stopped 
charging him for benefits he could not use. So, I havent considered how the account was 
sold.
I think its important to explain that as a service we dont expect a bank to review an 
individuals circumstances on a regular basis to decide for the customer if their bank account 
is meeting their needs. Although we would expect NatWest to send Mr B annual eligibility 
statements so that he could decide if the account he held was still suitable for him.
Mr B has explained that he finds digital communication challenging, but Mr B would have 
had to select email as his preferred contact method for his correspondence to be sent in this 
way. So, I cant fairly say NatWest has done anything wrong by emailing information to Mr B.
Mr B has been sent annual eligibility statements every year since 2014. The statements 
explain the account benefits, costs and exclusions for Mr B to check to see if the account 
was still suitable for his needs.
I think by sending these emails NatWest met its obligations to Mr B and I cant see that Mr B 
made any contact with NatWest to explain he no longer wanted the account.
While I can appreciate Mr B would prefer to carry out his banking needs face to face, and 
has asked for a home visit, I dont think this is always possible. Mr B has contacted the bank 
several times by phone over the years managing to open a savings account in 2019 and 
raise two complaints, all by phone.
So, I think Mr B would have been able to respond to the emails he received at least by 
calling NatWest if he felt he no longer benefitted from having his package bank account.
I understand Mr B feels that considering his circumstances NatWest should have catered for 
him individually. But it would be for Mr B to explain his circumstances to NatWest if he would 
like them to do something differently, and at that point they could try to accommodate him if 
it was reasonably possible. 
I havent seen that Mr B contacted NatWest over the years to explain he no longer wanted 
his package bank account. He could have made NatWest aware of this by phone at any 
time.
NatWest has now downgraded Mr Bs account to a free account and paid back some of the 
account fees. While I know this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, this more than I could have asked NatWest to do to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint. So, I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman