DRN-1862219
The complaint
Ms F complains about Barclay Bank UK PLCs decision to not refund her transactions 
which took place on her account in 2019 which she says she didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Ms F opened an account with a betting website who Ill refer to as C in 2018. She 
opened this to manage a syndicate she had going on at work in relation to a sporting 
event. Ms F confirms that once the sporting event had finished (in 2018), she stopped 
using C.
Ms F opened the account with C using her iPhone 7 and says this has been the only device 
shes used while accessing the account. Ms F says she didnt write down her log-in details, 
store them electronically or share them with anybody else. Ms F no longer uses the iPhone 
7 and its locked away in a cupboard and protected with a passcode.
Ms F confirms she now has an iPhone XS which shes had since June 2019. This phone is 
locked with a passcode which is only known to Ms F and isnt a code which could be easily 
guessed by anybody else. The passcode Ms F uses for her phone is the same passcode 
she uses for her Barclays mobile application. When Ms F isnt using her phone, she says it 
is left in the kitchen of her house which she shares with family members or in her bedroom 
while it is charging. Ms F takes her phone to work and sometimes leaves it on her desk. 
The phone case Ms F uses for her iPhone XS has a section to hold a debit card, and Ms F 
confirms she keeps her debit card in there which she mainly uses for contactless 
transactions.
Around 21 September 2019, Ms F purchased a cake using her phone. She tried to log in to 
her Barclays mobile application but noticed it wasnt working. She used a web browser and 
then used her phone again but once she was able to log-in she noticed her balance wasnt 
what she was expecting. Ms F called Barclays and they explained transactions had been 
made to C between 19 and 20 September 2019. Ms F couldnt see the transactions on the 
mobile application as they were pending. Ms F told our service she thought Barclays 
should have sent her a text message when the transactions took place, but they didnt.
A few days later, Ms F received a phone call from C. They explained somebody had 
sent messages using Ms Fs account threatening to end their life. C confirmed the 
messages were sent on 20 September 2019, but C werent alerted until around 24 
September 2019.
The transactions Ms F disputes started around 30 August 2019 and totals around £21,000. 
Ms F says on the day the transactions started she attended a funeral, and she was at 
home and work during the other disputed transactions throughout August and September 
2019. Ms F confirms she doesnt live with anybody who also works with her.
Ms F confirms she was having a few issues with her Barclays mobile application and kept 
receiving error messages. Ms F didnt raise her concerns with Barclays as she thought the 
issues were due to internet connectivity issues. Ms F said she didnt notice anything 
unusual when she did log in to her Barclays mobile application and thought her balances 
were normal.
Barclays held Ms F liable for the transactions she disputes. They relied on the matches 
they had for Ms Fs IP address which they cross referenced with a mobile device ID they 
hold for Ms F. Multiple IP addresses have been used previously for genuine transactions 
which Ms F doesnt dispute. Barclays have confirmed the IP address was first used in 
December 2018 and the mobile device ID was first used in June 2019.
Ms F is unhappy with the way Barclays dealt with her fraud claim  she doesnt think they 
carried out a full investigation. Ms F also thinks Barclays should have contacted the 
Police and other organisations such as Action Fraud on her behalf.
Ms F made a Subject Access Request (SAR) in November 2019 once the bank had 
declined her claim. Shes unhappy they exceeded the time limit to respond to her and said 
there were calls missing and blank pages included.
Barclays responded to Ms Fs complaint and apologised for the level of service Ms F had 
received. They apologised for the time it took to respond to Ms Fs SAR, and that theyd 
sent some information to the local Barclays branch instead of to Ms Fs home address. In a 
follow up response, Barclays located another call which they sent to Ms F and offered her 
£100 for the inconvenience caused.
Ms F brought her complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into 
it. The investigator didnt uphold Ms Fs complaint. She thought that;
Ms F had authorised the payments because the card and CVV details had been 
input into Cs website. And the electronic records show the correct passcode was 
provided when using the Barclays mobile application to make transfers between 
the accounts.
Ms F consented to the payments because the same device ID and IP addresses 
which have been used for genuine transactions were used for these disputed 
transactions. The IP addresses also match the internet service providers for Ms 
Fs home and workplace. The email address which was used to reset the 
password with C had been accessed and Ms F confirms nobody would be able 
to access that email address as its never been used on a shared device.
Barclays arent responsible to tell Ms F about transactions on her account, and 
because Ms F was regularly logging in to her Barclays mobile application, she 
thought it was reasonable Ms F should have noticed any unauthorised 
transactions herself.
Its the role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to deal with 
issues or concerns relating to non-compliance with SARs.
In conclusion, the investigator thought that Ms F had carried out the transactions. 
And therefore, she didnt think Barclays was unreasonable to decline the claims. She 
also thought Barclays offer of £125 compensation was fair.
Ms F disagreed. Ive summarised the points Ms F disagrees with below.
She said she didnt authenticate or authorise payments to C.
And she disagrees with the devices Barclays hold for her as she has never owned some of the phones listed.
Ms F also says at the times the transactions with C took place, it would have 
been impossible for her to carry out the transactions due to her working hours.
She thinks the security around email addresses and IP addresses can be 
easily compromised.
Ms F thinks C has poor security measures in place, and it would be easy for 
somebody to access her information including her email address and bank card 
even though shes been careful with it.
Ms F also had some concerns around Barclays handling of her SAR.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
The investigator helpfully included a list of relevant transactions, Barclays mobile banking 
log-ins and log-ins to the account held with C. I havent repeated that list as Im satisfied 
all parties are aware of the relevant transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Ms F  so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Firstly, I appreciate Ms F has provided a lot of information regarding this complaint and 
the reasons she disagrees with the investigators view. While I havent commented on 
every aspect, I would like to reassure Ms F that to help me decide what happened, Ive 
looked at all the evidence of the transactions, as well as the information that Barclays and 
Ms F have shared.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to consider relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require 
banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. So, 
when considering whether Barclays has acted fairly in rejecting Ms Fs fraud complaint, 
one of the things I have to consider is whether Ms F made the transactions herself or 
allowed them to be made. If Ms F did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
her.
From looking at the evidence, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to hold Ms 
F responsible for these transactions. I say this because:
The account with C where transactions on Ms Fs card was credited was held in 
the name of Ms F. The account was opened in 2018 by Ms F herself.
All the payments were made using Ms Fs card details, rather than the card itself. 
It's possible of course that someone could have obtained those details without Ms F knowing. But I don't believe that's what happened here.
The only person who could have accessed Ms Fs Barclays mobile application 
was Ms F herself.
The device used for the mobile application is secured by a passcode which Ms 
F says she hasnt shared with anybody. And additional security is needed to 
open the Barclays mobile application. Ms F hasnt offered a plausible 
explanation about how someone could gain access to her bank details or be 
able to access her phone.
Ms F says an old email address was used to change the password on the 
account held with C. But shes also confirmed the email address has never 
been used on a shared device so it would be impossible for anybody other 
than Ms F to access it unless shed given them the details herself.
The IP addresses used for the transactions are the same as IP addresses Ms F 
has used herself previously for transactions which arent disputed. Whilst thats 
not conclusive evidence (its possible to hide or disguise an IP address), its a 
further piece of evidence that links Ms F to the gambling transactions.
I appreciate Ms F says she doesnt own some of the devices used to make 
the transactions, but I dont think thats relevant. I say that because the 
person who carried out the transactions had access to Ms Fs device to 
access her Barclays mobile application and knew her passcodes to log-in to 
her other accounts. The device used isnt relevant, but somebody knowing 
the information needed is.
Ms F says the timings of the transactions mean it couldnt have been her as 
shed attended a funeral during one of the transactions, and she would have 
been at work for some of the others. But the transactions are linked to IP 
addresses and the internet service providers both at Ms Fs home and place of 
work. Ms F has confirmed nobody she lives with also works with her.
Ms F checked her account regularly. I find it surprising if she didnt notice 
these payments being made especially as some included transfers from her 
savings account to her current account.
I note too that significant sums were credited to Ms Fs account from C. I note 
she hasnt suggested that money was paid to her in error.
Ive also kept in mind that there would be no financial gain for someone other than 
Ms F to place the bets which she disputes. Any profits from winning bets would 
have been paid directly into Ms Fs betting account and transferring that money 
into a bank account would not have been instant. Taking all of this into account I 
think its unlikely the disputed activity it was carried out by a third party.
In summary, the disputed transactions took place from an online gambling account that Ms 
F already used. The multiple banking app logins suggest that Ms F had her phone at the 
time of the disputed transactions and, as Ive said, there would be no financial gain for 
someone other than Ms F to place the bets.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the gambling transactions were carried out by someone other than Ms F. And so it wouldnt be fair to require Barclays to 
refund them.
I note Ms F is also unhappy at the information Barclays left out when she made a SAR. 
The investigator suggested that Ms F raise these concerns with the Information 
Commissioners Office, who are better placed than out service to investigate data 
protection concerns. I cant add anything further to this advice.
I have, however, considered Barclays offer of £125 compensation for the service issues 
Ms F experienced when they dealt with her fraud claim and SAR. In the circumstances I 
think £125 fairly recognises the inconvenience caused of sending information to the 
branch instead of Ms Fs home address and the delays in responding to the SAR.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
Hayley West
 
Ombudsman