The complaint
Mr O complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited has declined a claim he made under 
his contents insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr O contacted Admiral to make a claim under his contents policy. He 
explained that whilst his wife had been out walking, she'd lost her engagement ring and 
watch. Mr O had listed these items as high-risk items on his policy, but as she wasnt listed 
as an occupant on the insurance policy Admiral asked for proof that his wife also lived at the 
address. 
Mr O said hed made a mistake by missing his wife off the policy because hed been going 
through an emotionally difficult time due to the death of his mother. He said his wife had her 
own property in London where she lived during the week, but she spent weekends with him. 
He also explained that his wife wasnt on any bills as English wasnt her native language, so 
she didnt deal with them. But now hed realised she wasnt on the policy, hed asked for her 
to be added. 
Admiral declined the claim. They said there wasnt enough information to show Mr Os wife 
lived at the property, and the lost ring and watch would only be covered if she was a 
permanent resident.   
Mr O disagreed and made a complaint. He felt the evidence hed provided showed his wife 
did live at the property for part of the week and this should be enough for Admiral to pay the 
claim. He also felt Admiral hadnt been sympathetic towards him, and theyd made it difficult 
for him to make a claim. Mr O also said it was unfair of Admiral to say hed made the claim if 
they werent paying it, and he was unhappy he didnt get a call back from a manager to 
discuss this. 
Admiral upheld the complaint in part. They said the policy only covered occupants who 
permanently lived in the property, and Mr O had already said his wife was only there at 
weekends. They also said the policy had been taken out in Mr Os sole name and if hed 
made a mistake initially, his policy documents reminded him to check they were correct. 
Admiral also explained that once a claim has been registered theres no way to remove it 
from the central insurance exchange and this must be accurate information to prevent fraud. 
However, they did agree that they could have been more sympathetic towards him, so they 
paid him £100 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr O still felt Admiral were acting unfairly by 
not paying the claim, so he asked this service to look in-to his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the terms and 
conditions were clear that for Mr Os wife to be covered by the policy, she needed to be a 
permanent occupant of the property. And because she lived in her other property for most of 
the time, she wasnt a permanent occupant so the items she had with her also wouldnt be 
DRN-1110134covered. She acknowledged that Mr O had mistakenly left his wife off the policy but didnt 
think this would change anything as his wife wasnt a permanent resident. She also said she 
felt the £100 compensation Admiral had paid for the service hed received was fair.
Mr O didnt agree. He said because of his mental health hed made a mistake with the 
timings, and his wife had been staying with him during the week and in London at weekends 
 although this had recently changed. He said hed provided a statement from his wife 
saying she stayed with him for more than half the week so his claim should be paid. He also 
felt his mental health should be taken into consideration. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.   
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. I'll explain why. 
Mr O he doesnt feel Admiral have taken his circumstances into account when deciding not 
to pay his claim, and he thinks theyve treated him unfairly. Looking at Mr Os policy, I can 
see the lost ring and watch were included as specified items on it, so I can understand why 
he feels his claim should be covered. However, the policy documents are quite clear that all 
contents including high risk items are only covered if they are  owned by you and your family 
and family is defined as Your spouse/partner, children, foster children, parents and any 
other relative who permanently lives with you at your home address. So, I dont think was 
unfair of Admiral to check if Mr Os wife lived at the property for the items to be covered. 
Ive seen Admirals system records from when the policy was taken out by Mr O, and he 
clearly said he was the sole occupant at the property and was benefiting from the single 
occupancy discount on his council tax. I acknowledge Mr O said he was in a vulnerable 
position when he renewed his policy which meant he forgot to include his wife as an 
occupant. And I understand hes now added his wife to his policy and feels its unfair that 
Admiral wont backdate this and pay the claim. But its not unreasonable or unusual for an 
insurance company to do this, and Im satisfied the policy makes it clear Mr O needed to 
check the information was accurate when he took it out. 
I recognise Mr O feels Admiral havent taken his vulnerability into account, and if they were, 
theyd pay his claim. Whilst I recognise Mr Os position due to his personal circumstances, I 
dont think Admiral acted unreasonably by asking questions to see whether the claim was 
covered. Ive seen call notes and system records which show Admiral tried to help Mr O 
prove his wife lived with him, so they could show further consideration to the claim, but Mr O 
wasnt able to provide this. 
Looking at the notes on file, Ive seen there have been inconsistencies in Mr Os version of 
events relating to the times his wife lived at the property and when she should have been 
added to the policy. And its also been difficult for Admiral to understand the full 
circumstances relating to the loss of the items as they havent been able to speak to Mr Os 
wife.  So I don't think Admiral have treated Mr O unreasonably by declining his claim based 
on the information they've been given.
I understand Mr O felt Admirals customer service could have been better, and theyve 
recognised thats the case. I recognise this has been an upsetting time for Mr O. He's told us 
he lost his mother around the time he was renewing his policy and I would like to offer him 
my condolences and appreciate that this has been a very difficult time for him. And Id like to 
reassure him that Ive carefully read all the information hes provided. I understand why Mr O feels strongly about what happened and I realise this wont be the 
outcome he was hoping for, but I think it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the 
information they were given when the policy was taken out. And unfortunately this means the 
policy only provided cover for Mr O and not his wife. So I think the £100 compensation Mr O 
has been paid is a fair amount, and I wont be asking Admiral to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman