DRN-2722802
The complaint
Mr O complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI), trading as Nissan Finance, 
havent provided sufficient compensation for the issues he experienced when they failed to 
change his vehicle registration after his plates were cloned.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Theres no dispute that Mr Os license plate was cloned in 2017. RCI remained the legal 
owner of the vehicle throughout the agreement and they should have changed the 
registration as soon as they became aware of the problem. But they didnt, and in the 
meantime, Mr O has explained that over the ensuing years there were several occasions 
when he was stopped by the police; he received notification of a penalty charge being taken 
to court when RCI should have dealt with the issue, and they asked him to contact the DVLA 
about the problem when he wasnt the legal owner and would not have been able to make 
any changes.
Mr O is also upset that since his lease ended in April 2020 the car has not been collected 
and hes had to continue to insure it. Ive reviewed RCIs call logs and cant see evidence 
that Mr O was refusing collection. So, its not fair for him to have been paying for the 
insurance in those circumstances.
Mr O has explained that he decided to stop driving the car at the start of 2020 and he 
purchased a new vehicle. Whilst I understand it would have been frustrating and time 
consuming to have been stopped by the police I think it was Mr Os choice not to continue to 
drive the car and Im not asking RCI to refund any of the instalments Mr O has diligently 
continued to pay.
Mr O would like RCI to waive any excess mileage charges, but I dont think that would be 
fair. The mileage Mr O completed in the car is unrelated to the issue with the license plate 
cloning.
  
Putting things right
I would agree with the investigators suggestion that RCI should increase their compensation 
to £400 in respect of the distress and inconvenience their inaction has caused Mr O.
They should also refund Mr Os insurance costs from the date the agreement ended until the 
date the car was collected, and they should add interest to that payment as Mr O has been 
deprived of the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services 
Limited to:
pay Mr O £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their inaction 
has caused;
refund Mr Os insurance costs from the end of the agreement to the date the car was 
collected. They should add 8% interest to that refund from the date Mr O paid for his 
insurance until the date of settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman