DRN-3449349
The complaint
Mr H complains about the level of service provided by Tesco Underwriting Limited following 
a glass repair claim made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Hs windscreen was damaged, and he made a claim for repair. But Tescos agent wasnt 
able to complete the repair due to faulty machines. The repair was finally completed four 
months after Mr H made the claim. When Mr H complained, Tesco said it wasnt responsible 
for the repairers actions. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the repairer 
had acted as Tescos agent. He thought the four month delay in completing the repair was 
unfair. And he thought Tesco should pay Mr H £100 compensation for the delays and 
inconvenience it had caused. 
Tesco replied asking for an Ombudsmans review. It said it wasnt responsible for the 
repairers actions as it was a separate business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco said it wasnt responsible for the repairers actions. But I disagree. The repairer was 
acting in response to a claim made by Mr H against his policy underwritten by Tesco. And so 
I am satisfied that the repairer was acting as Tescos agent and that Tesco was therefore 
responsible for its actions.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I think Tesco has a duty to deal 
with claims promptly, so Ive looked to see how it handled Mr Hs claim. 
From what I can see, there was an initial six weeks delay in the claim due to the repairers 
equipment failure. I cant see that Tesco provided Mr H with an alternative repairer in this 
time. Mr H was then unwell, and this caused further delay, but I cant reasonably hold Tesco 
responsible for this. But it then took two more months for the repair to be made. I think this 
was unreasonable. 
When a business makes a mistake, I think Tesco has done here, we expect it to restore the 
consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error 
had on the consumer. 
Mr H has now had his windscreen repaired, and so I think this restores his position. But I 
think the four month delay in completing the repair was unreasonable. Mr H took time off 
work to take his car to the repairer, but the repair wasnt then made. Mr H had told Tesco 
that he needed his car as he had a small child. But it still took a further month for the repair 
to be completed after this. 
Mr H told us that the repairer had waived his policy excess by way of an apology. But our 
Investigator recommended that Tesco should pay Mr H £100 compensation for the impact its 
delays had on him. I think thats in keeping with our published guidance, considering the 
length of the delay and the impact this had on Mr H. So I think thats fair and reasonable in 
these particular circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mr H £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delay in handling his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman