DRN-4233527
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) mismanaged his personal 
pension and misled him, causing him a loss.
For simplicity, Ive referred to Mr M throughout, even where submissions were made by his 
representative.
What happened
Mr Ms said that in 2010 he became a member of his employers group personal pension 
with Scottish Widows. And, in November 2022, after being told by his financial adviser that 
his pension had lost a lot of money over the last year, largely from the Pension Protector 
fund (Protector fund), Mr M complained to Scottish Widows that it had mismanaged his plan. 
He said, in summary, that it continued to move his plan into the Protector fund when this was 
more volatile than the fund it had moved this from, when it was meant to move his plan into 
lower risk funds. And that the value dropped by around 37% across 12 months. 
Scottish Widows sent Mr M its final response letter. It said, in summary, that Mr Ms plan was 
set up for a Balanced targeting Annuity with lifestyling applied. It said that, as part of this, it 
moved his funds in the run up to his selected retirement age (SRA) in line with instructions.  
Mr M brought his complaint to our Service. He added, in summary, that Scottish Widows 
literature falsely said that the lifestyle strategy moved funds into lower risk and safer 
investments, with the aim of helping protect his plan value closer to his SRA. And that 
Scottish Widows mismanaged his plan as it continued to move it into the volatile Protector 
fund, rather than changing the strategy when it knew this was failing significantly. Mr M also 
said he wasnt aware his plan had a lifestyle strategy, as Scottish Widows just applied this as 
it did to all group pensions at the time. And that Scottish Widows ought to have told him 
before it started to automatically switch his funds, as well as reminding him what this meant 
in his statements and asking if he wanted it to continue.  
 
One of our Investigators looked into it and said Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for 
the sale of Mr Ms pension or for giving him advice. He said it followed the investment 
approach agreed when Mr Ms plan was set up, which it made him aware of in 
documentation. He also said Scottish Widows wasnt given any alternative instructions and 
that it wasnt responsible for the fall in value of Mr Ms plan. And that it had suggested he 
seek advice if he wasnt happy with his investments.
Mr M didnt agree. He added, in summary, that the poor performance of the Protector fund 
due to the performance of bonds and gilts isnt relevant to his complaint, as he understands 
Scottish Widows cant be held responsible for that. He said his complaint is that Scottish 
Widows mismanaged his plan, as it didnt move his funds to lower risk and safer 
investments. He said it made unsubstantiated and false promises that the Protector fund 
was a safe haven where his plan would be less at risk. And that while he received 
statements and our Investigator said Mr M could change the strategy, he doesnt understand 
pensions or that lifestyling applied to his plan, as he was enrolled in it without advice. Mr M 
also said Scottish Widows had a duty of care to ensure the strategy lived up to the promises 
made about this, given he was automatically enrolled in it. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr M hoped for, Im not upholding his
complaint for largely the same reasons as the Investigator. Ill explain why.
A lifestyle strategy was in place Mr Ms group personal pension plan. Given this was prior to 
pension freedoms being introduced in 2015 and other flexible options werent generally 
available, it appears the approach was to invest for an annuity purchase at his SRA. 
I think its important to clarify at the outset that I havent seen anything to suggest Scottish 
Widows gave, or that it was responsible for giving, Mr M any advice on his pension and what 
was suitable for him. In which case, it was responsible for administering Mr Ms plan in line 
with the strategy and providing him with information. And it was for Mr M  and any financial 
adviser he might have had  to monitor the performance of his investments and ensure that 
these and any strategy in place were suitable for him.
I think Mr M is likely to have been provided with information at the time he rolled in his 
pension explaining how the strategy worked. And, while Mr Ms statements dont appear to 
have used the word lifestyling until 2019, I think these reminded him that such a strategy 
was in place when these said his plan was invested using its Balanced targeting annuity 
investment approach. Mr Ms statements between 2014 and 2016 said this approach meant 
the funds would change as he neared his SRA, with the aim of being largely invested in the 
Protector fund by then. And these referred him to its Pension Investment Approach guide, 
which explained this. I think Mr Ms statements from 2019 clarified this further, as these 
clearly said he was invested in a lifestyle option known as the Balanced targeting annuity 
option designed to automatically switch his funds as he got close to his SRA. So I think Mr M 
was made reasonably aware that his plan had a lifestyle strategy in place and how this 
would be invested. 
While Mr M has clarified that his complaint isnt about the poor performance of his fund, I can 
see hes disappointed that his plan fell in value after being invested in the Protector fund as 
part of the lifestyle strategy. But, while Mr Ms disappointment is understandable, the drop in 
value doesnt necessarily mean Scottish Widows mismanaged his plan or misled him about 
the nature of the strategy. I dont think it did, for the following reasons. 
I can see from Mr Ms statements that his plan appears to have been invested in line with 
what Scottish Widows guide set out that it should be in the run up to his retirement, with the 
aim of being largely invested in the Protector fund. So I think it correctly followed the 
strategy. I appreciate Mr Ms said Scottish Widows should have changed the strategy and 
his investments instead of continuing to invest these in the Protector fund. But, as set out 
above, Mr M was responsible for ensuring that the strategy and his investments were 
suitable for his circumstances. And I cant see anything to suggest that Mr M provided 
Scottish Widows with alternative instructions for it to follow.   
I dont think Scottish Widows misled Mr M when it said in his statements, for example, that 
the strategy was designed to move his plan into safer funds. Lifestyle strategies do usually 
seek to manage risks by moving funds into fixed interest investments such as gilts and bonds as someone approaches retirement, as these usually exhibit lower volatility and are 
considered low-risk. This type of investment doesnt eliminate risk though, as these can still 
sharply fall in value in certain situations in the way the Protector fund did in late 2022. And I 
also think its important to also bear in mind that the goal in Mr Ms case was to invest for an 
annuity purchase. Gilts and annuity rates tend to move in opposite directions, such that 
when interest rates increase, the value of long gilts go down and annuity rates go up. So the 
aim was that the level of retirement income Mr M might achieve was less likely to 
dramatically change if, for example, the value of his fund  which was largely invested in gilts 
 moved down in the run up to his retirement.  
While Mr M might find the name Protector fund misleading and has said this wasnt a safe 
haven, I cant see that Scottish Widows gave any guarantees as to the fund value or level of 
pension he might achieve in retirement. And I think it made Mr M reasonably aware of the 
risks involved, as he was provided with information which clearly said that the amounts 
werent guaranteed, the illustrations were an indication of what Mr M might get and that what 
hed actually get would depend on performance. It said his income at retirement could be 
higher or lower and it couldnt promise that the projected pension was what hed receive.   
Mr Ms 2021 statement also specifically said that the Balanced investment approach carried 
a risk to capital and that the investments didnt have any guarantees. 
Mr M said he doesnt understand or have great knowledge of pensions to have changed his 
investment strategy. But I can see that his statements regularly reminded him to check if the 
plan still met his aims and if he was happy with his investments, recommending he seek 
advice if he was unsure if he should take action. And that those from at least 2019 onwards 
told Mr M where he could go for information about finding a financial adviser, if he didnt 
already have one. 
In summary, Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for ensuring Mr Ms funds were suitable 
for him. And I havent seen anything to suggest Scottish Widows misled Mr M or that it 
mismanaged his plan, as I think it followed the investment strategy. This means Im not 
asking Scottish Widows to do anything, as I dont think it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman