DRN-3846319
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has rejected his claim for damage caused by his dog to a third partys property.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case. In response to this Ive received 
further submissions from C&G which Ive taken into consideration and to which I refer below 
to the extent necessary.
What happened
Mr Ls complaint arises from a claim he made under his insurance policy with C&G covering 
his dog who Ill refer to as O. The policy covers liability to third parties for accidental 
damage. The benefit limit for such claims is £1,000. The relevant policy term says:
Section 9 - Accidental Damage (Applicable to Elite Extra cover only) What is insured?
This section covers You up to the Benefit Limit should Your pet cause damage to the
personal property of someone who You are visiting with Your Pet.
On 28 August 2021 Mr Ls wife, Mrs L, went with O to visit some friends, who Ill refer to as 
Mr and Mrs D who also have a dog of the same breed as O. Mr and Mrs Ds property has a 
swimming pool which is usually covered and the two dogs are accustomed to running over 
the cover of the pool when playing during regular play-dates. On the occasion of Mrs Ls 
visit, the pool was uncovered.
According to Mr L, on entering the garden O ran towards the swimming pool, and, unable to 
stop in time, fell in. He managed to swim to the edge of the pool at the shallow end but as 
there were no steps he struggled to get out. He put his front legs up on the side of the pool, 
and Mrs D and Mrs L tried to lift him out but as he scrambled to get out, the claws of his hind 
legs tore the swimming pool liner.
Mr and Mrs D contacted the company that maintains their pool and they were advised to 
drain it to prevent further damage. It has provided a quote of £6,804 for the replacement of 
the liner and necessary ancillary work. 
Mr L considers that as his dog was responsible for this damage, it is his responsibility to 
cover the necessary repair costs. He therefore made a claim under the above quoted section 
of his policy.
After some considerable delay, C&G rejected Mr Ls claim and referred him to the following 
section of his policy:
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage, as well as arranging 
and paying for Treatment for Your pet to reduce the likelihood of Illness or Accidental 
Injury.
C&G has also made reference to the fact that the quote for a replacement liner included old 
felt removed and takes this to suggest that the pool liner was in need of repair when the 
accident happened. It therefore expressed a doubt that O had caused the damage and 
believes that the pool liner was damaged on another occasion. 
As Mr L was dissatisfied with C&Gs response to his claim, he complained to this service. 
Our investigator initially expressed her view that Mrs L did provide proper care and attention 
and took all reasonable precautions it was possible for her to take. In her opinion it was not 
reasonably foreseeable that, having fallen into the pool, O would then cause damage to the 
pool liner, so Mrs L couldnt be reasonably expected to guard against that risk. She didnt 
consider that C&G has established that Mrs L didnt take reasonable care to prevent O from 
damaging the pool liner, and that it was simply an unfortunate and unforeseeable accident. 
She considered that C&G had unfairly and unreasonably declined Mr Ls claim. 
In response to our investigators initial view, C&G provided extensive further submissions. In 
the light of further information that Mr and Mrs Ds property was undergoing an extensive 
renovation at the time and wasnt occupied, and it was an ongoing building site, it argued 
that Mrs L hadnt taken appropriate care. It also said that it hadnt seen any evidence that the 
damage actually occurred, that Mr Ls  claim is covered by the policy, that the alleged 
damage was caused by O and not by the construction work underway, or evidence of any 
loss.
Mr L provided an equally detailed rebuttal of this, and provided extensive evidence that the 
majority of the garden, including the swimming pool area, was not affected by the ongoing 
works and the contractors had no right of access to this area, and Mr and Mrs D visited it 
regularly to maintain the garden. There were no contractors working on the day in question 
which was a Bank holiday. There were therefore no additional hazards for O which needed 
to be considered and protected against.
Our investigator issued a second view in which she changed her opinion. She considered 
that as the pool was uncovered, it was reckless behaviour to let the dogs run freely in an 
unfamiliar situation. She didnt consider that Mr L had satisfied the burden of proof that he 
had suffered a loss which his policy covered, and she hadnt seen any evidence to persuade 
her that the claim was covered by the policy and that the alleged damage was caused by O 
and not by the construction work being undertaken.
Mr L asked that his complaint be re-considered by an ombudsman. It was referred to me for 
a final decision from this service and I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ls claim. 
In response to this Ive received further submissions from C&G which Ive taken into 
consideration and to which I refer below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im maintaining my original decision, and Ill explain why, and will comment 
on C&Gs further submissions.
Im persuaded by the information provided by Mr L that the building work being undertaken 
at Mr and Mrs Ds property did not extend to the majority of the garden and the swimming 
pool area. There appears to be a clear demarcation between the area to which the 
contractors had access, and that to which they didnt. The site safety notice referred to by C&G would only have applied to the area to which the contractors had access. Mr and Mrs D 
and Mrs L were not unauthorised persons. 
I dont consider there to be any connection between Mr and Mrs Ds house being 
unoccupied and the presence of contractors in the house and a small part of the garden and 
the incident that led to the damage to the pool liner. Even if there were dangers present on 
the site as a consequence of the work being undertaken, the claim is unrelated to the 
presence of any such danger.
Im also not persuaded by C&Gs suggestion that the damage to the pool liner was caused 
on some other occasion, for example by Mr and Mrs Ds contractors, or that it was in poor 
condition. The company who provided the quote for the liners replacement has stated:
We can confirm that we installed a new pool pump for you on the 18th August and can
confirm that the engineer did a general check on the filter, pipework and the liner and
confirm that the liner was still in good condition and had many years left before you
would need to replace it.
In relation to the felt underlay, it is standard practice to replace the underlay when we 
replace liner as there is usually also damage to the felt through being water logged 
and stretched
The use of the word old would be better described as existing just the same as the 
liner was existing.
It is our opinion that prior to the incident, the liner was functional and prior to the dog
incident, the liner still had considerable life left.
Given the above confirmation that the liner was in good condition on 18 August, the damage 
would have to have been caused by the construction work between 18 August and 28 
August 2021 and there is no evidence supporting that. 
However there is consistent evidence supporting an incident involving O on 28 August. 
There were three witnesses, date and time stamped photos and evidence of telephone calls 
Mr L made to C&G on Saturday 28 August and Tuesday 31 August to report the incident. 
Im not persuaded by the relevance of the discrepancies that C&G has referred to in its 
response to my provisional decision or as to the jeopardy that C&G says it has suffered 
because of the delay in submitting the claim. There is photographic evidence of the damage 
take on the day, but none that shows that this damage became greater over time and that as 
a consequence the cost of the repair has become greater. Given the quote for the repair, I 
dont consider it likely that C&G could argue that its liability should be less than the benefit 
limit of £1,000.
I also dont consider it conceivable that Mr L wouldve accepted liability for the pool liner 
being damaged by O and attempted to contact his insurers straight away if he hadnt 
genuinely believed this to be the case on the basis of information received from his wife and 
from Mr and Mrs D. 
As to there being no financial loss to Mr L, there is clearly a liability that he has very fairly 
assumed to reimburse to Mr and Mrs D the cost of repairing the damage caused by his dog. 
I dont consider it a reasonable argument for C&G to say that it has no liability because Mr L 
hasnt so far paid anything for the repair. I understand that that the repair hasnt yet been 
made, but the liability to reimburse Mr and Mrs D for the cost of that repair remains.
I also dont accept C&Gs argument that because there was other insurance that mightve 
been claimed upon, C&G can avoid liability. Ive seen no evidence of any other insurance that Mr L might have had which wouldve covered this damage. I also dont consider that Mr 
and Mrs Ds insurance shouldve been called upon even if their cover hadnt been restricted 
due to their property being unoccupied.
I maintain my opinion that the principal point at issue is quite limited, that being whether 
C&G can reject Mr Ls claim in reliance on the policy term  You must provide proper care 
and attention to Your pet at all times and take all reasonable precautions to prevent 
Accidental Injury or damage..
Injury or damage has to be reasonably foreseeable. The question is would a reasonable 
person in the position of Mrs L contemplate that the type of damage suffered - damage to Mr 
and Mrs Ds swimming pool liner -  was likely to follow if  there was a failure to take 
reasonable precautions when O was playing with Mr and Mrs Ds dog? 
I consider that the risk of damage of the type caused wouldnt have been in the 
contemplation of Mrs L. From their witness statements, it appears that Mr and Mrs Ds dog 
wasnt under any restraint either, so the possibility of damage to their pool by O or by their 
own dog wouldnt have been in their contemplation either. 
A remote possibility of damage of the type that occurred is not enough. There has to be a 
sufficient probability to lead a reasonable person (in the position of Mrs L) to anticipate it 
(Atkins LJ in Jones v Whippy [2009] EWCA Civ.452, approving Lord Porter in Bolton v Stone 
[1951] AC).
C&G in its response has referred to the aforementioned need for sufficient probability. I dont 
consider that sufficient probability of a pool liner being ripped exists in this case. I consider it 
to be no more than a remote possibility. It could be argued that there was a possibility that 
one of the dogs might have fallen into the pool, but that is a different risk. At the time, the two 
dogs were under the supervision of three adults, none of whom, as presumably reasonable 
people, anticipated a sufficient probability that one of the dogs would fall into the pool. The 
risk of the pool liner being ripped is an even more remote probability. I dont agree with C&G 
that such a risk is extremely high.
My conclusion is therefore that the damage caused by O was too remote a possibility. It 
wasnt damage that was reasonably foreseeable to occur if proper care and attention werent 
taken. I consider that it is unfair and unreasonable for C&G to rely on the exclusion it relies 
upon to reject Mr Ls claim. 
C&G should therefore meet Mr Ls claim subject to the other terms and conditions of his 
policy, which will include the benefit limit.
C&G has also acknowledged that the service it provided to Mr L wasnt up to the standard it 
aims to provide and has upheld his complaint in this regard. I consider that the trouble and 
inconvenience that this has caused Mr L, including the lack of clarity as to what it required 
from him by way of evidence, and the consequential delays in addressing his claim, merit 
compensation of £250. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint.
I require that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1. meet Mr Ls claim subject to the other terms and conditions of his policy.2. pay Mr L interest on the amount so paid at the simple rate of 8% from the date he 
made his claim.
3. If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, to tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if Mr L asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
4. pay Mr L £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman