DRN-1223259
The complaint
Mrs G took out a Home Owner Loan in 2008 with Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. She 
complains that due to the age of the product she is not able to access details of the loan. 
Mrs G also complains that since then shes had numerous reviews with the bank, but this 
loan (and the interest shes been paying on it) has never been raised. 
What happened
Mrs G had a Home Owner Loan which she had taken out in 2008 and which she had 
consistently made payments towards. In 2019 she went for a financial review with the bank 
and was told by the advisor that she was in arrears on this loan and that there was a 
shortfall. However, the advisor couldnt tell her why there was a shortfall. Mrs G explained 
she wasnt happy with the fact nobody had told her about this, as it appeared the shortfall 
had been present on the account since 2016.  
Following this meeting Mrs G made several phone calls to the bank and visited the branch to 
try and identify what had gone wrong and why she had a shortfall. However, the loan wasnt 
visible on the banks standard systems  which meant staff either misunderstood what the 
loan was (for example she was initially referred to the mortgage team), or were simply 
unable to provide any information. Eventually, the bank was able to identify the reason why a 
shortfall appeared on the account and it was due to a change in the date of payments in 
2016. 
Mrs G complained about the issues she experienced. RBS looked into her complaint and 
agreed it hadnt dealt with her well. It offered her compensation for the numerous phone calls 
shed had to make to the bank, as well as compensation for the trouble and upset the matter 
had caused her. Mrs G remained unhappy as it appeared the issues around the details of 
the loan not being available to regular bank staff couldnt be resolved  so she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Gs complaint. He made several enquiries to identify 
possible solutions for Mrs Gs predicament. In particular, he discussed options with RBS 
around how Mrs G could avoid experiencing the same issues going forward, and whether 
there were any other options for refinancing the loan. He then considered Mrs Gs complaint 
in more detail. In short, he didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt agree that RBS had any 
obligation to proactively reassess this particular loan, unless Mrs G had specifically asked it 
to look into it  which she hadnt done. The investigator explained that, generally, he would 
expect a bank to carry out such a review in the event a consumer defaulted on payments or 
told the bank that they were in financial difficulties  this wasnt the case with Mrs G. 
The investigator also considered what happened when a financial review was carried out. At 
this review, she was initially incorrectly told that her account was in arrears  but when she 
tried to find out more about this loan (and why it appeared she was in arrears when she had 
been paying regularly), staff were unable to access details of the loan due to the age of the 
product and the fact that it was on a different system. The investigator acknowledged the 
difficulties Mrs G had experienced, and the fact that the bank had paid her £75 in recognition 
of the trouble and upset she had been caused and £10.80 for the telephone costs she had 
incurred. He thought this offer was fair and reasonable. The investigator set out some options which were open to Mrs G going forward in relation to this particular loan, but 
explained that he was unable to advise or recommend a specific option. So he concluded 
that the bank didnt need to do anything further to put things right.  
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator. She explained that she had gone to the bank to 
explore available options, such as refinancing the loan or taking out additional borrowing on 
her mortgage, but neither of these options was available to her. So she said she was back 
at square one. She acknowledged that the service would be unable to insist that RBS 
changed its practices, but said that it would be better for their customer relations if they tried 
to be a bit more accommodating. Mrs G also explained that she remained unhappy with the 
fact that her account hadnt been reviewed all this time  she believed that as a customer 
she was entitled to have her finances reviewed to ensure she was on the best deals 
available. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by acknowledging the upset this complaint has caused Mrs G, and the 
difficulties she has encountered in resolving and finding out about an issue which wasnt of 
her making. But having reviewed her concerns, and in particular what shed like RBS to do to 
put matters right, Im afraid Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
Ultimately, Im not in a position to direct RBS to accept an application from her to refinance 
her loan, or to amend its systems in order to be able to migrate the details of this loan in 
such a way as to make it more accessible or visible for her (and bank staff). And, for the 
same reasons, I cant direct RBS to allow her to borrow more on her mortgage in order for 
her to be able to extinguish this particular loan. And I agree with the investigator that there 
wasn't any particular reason why RBS ought to have proactively reviewed this particular 
loan, or contacted Mrs G about it without her asking for such a review. RBS has explained 
that the arrears were less than one month's payment which is why the loan hadn't been 
flagged as being in default. I consider this explanation reasonable and persuasive. 
What I am able to consider is the trouble and upset resolving the matter caused her  
including the fact that for a short period of time it appeared bank staff were consistently 
giving her incorrect or conflicting information. So Ive considered this and the fact that the 
RBS's final response letter, which was issued not too long after the initial concerns were 
raised, explained the situation to her and the reasons why she wasnt in fact in arrears. I 
acknowledge that it took some time for her to receive statements of this loan. 
However, when considering how much compensation the bank should pay to Mrs G as a 
result of these issues, I need to take into account the fact that it isnt my role to punish RBS. 
I need to consider the impact on Mrs G  and in this case, whilst I acknowledge the 
undoubted trouble this matter caused her, there was no other impact. Her credit file wasnt 
affected, and I think RBS did, relatively quickly, work out that she wasnt in fact in arrears. 
Its also clear from RBSs investigation notes that staff were trying their best to resolve her 
concerns and find an answer to the issue she was experiencing. 
So, in these circumstances, Im satisfied that RBSs award is fair and reasonable. I 
understand that this has already been paid, and so Im satisfied RBS neednt do anything 
more. Whilst I understand this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs G, I hope she 
understands the reasons why Ive reached it. And while not ideal, I note that the case 
handler at RBS has offered to be a point of contact should a similar issue arise in future  
particularly if Mrs G is unable to get the relevant information she might need from bank staff. 
As the investigator has pointed out, this is unusual and demonstrates how seriously RBS 
has taken her concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman