DRN-3906669
The complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs B by her husband named in 
the will. Mr B complains that Ulster Bank Ltd unfairly refused to allow him to access the late 
Mrs Bs sole account without an expensive Grant of Probate.
What happened
Following the sad loss of his wife Mr B was informed by Ulster Bank that a Grant of Probate 
was necessary to access funds, which exceeded £25000, held in Mrs Bs sole account. 
The cost of the Grant of Probate was £1048. And Mr B is upset as, in his view, Ulster Bank 
have no legal basis on which to insist on Grant of Probate being obtained.
Ulster Bank were sympathetic and said they reserved the right to request sight of a Grant of 
Probate before the release of any funds held solely in Mrs Bs name. They explained their 
policy and procedure for accounts where the funds exceeded £25000 was for a Grant of 
Probate to be requested.
Mr B brought the estates complaint to this service as he thinks Ulster Bank should cover this 
cost. Also, Mr B feels Ulster Bank didnt keep him informed. Our investigator agreed it wasnt 
a legal requirement but said Ulster Banks rules and regulations have to be followed. And he 
couldnt see Ulster Bank had made any errors.
As Mr B remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Im very sorry to hear of Mr Bs sad loss and understand his disappointment and 
frustration at the Grant of Probate requirement and expense, I agree with the investigators 
view and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im satisfied that each financial institution can have its own rules in this matter and 
Ulster Bank has an entitlement to insist on production of a Grant of Probate.
Ulster Banks internal policy is that a Grant of Probate is required where the account 
holdings are more than £25,000. Mrs Bs account held significantly more funds so Ulster 
Bank applied its procedure correctly in this case. And, although its not a legal requirement to 
have a Grant of Probate, I cant reasonably ask Ulster Bank to refund the cost of the grant of 
probate. This is because it correctly followed its policy and procedure in asking for it. 
Also, I cant ask Ulster Bank to amend its policy or threshold. This is because the role of our 
service is to investigate individual complaints and its not our role to tell financial businesses 
what their processes should be.  
Finally, I reviewed the correspondence and listened to the calls on file to see if Ulster Bank 
kept Mr B informed and I think they acted reasonably when communicating with Mr B.
I know this will be very disappointing to Mr B, but I havent found Ulster Bank made a 
mistake or acted unfairly when it asked for a Grant of Probate in this case. So, Im not telling 
it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman