DRN-3194702
The complaint
Mr R complains that St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) acted unfairly because it made a 
profit by failing to invest his transferred funds in a timely way. He further complains that 
there was a delay in paying him his tax-free cash. 
What happened
Mr R applied to transfer his three pensions from Countrywide to SJP on 28 January 2020. 
The pension monies were received by SJP on 10 February 2020 however, due to 
an administrative error, the transfer was not completed until 9 March 2020.
Mr Rs tax-free cash was paid out on 11 March 2020 and he was sent a welcome pack 
the same day. The pack included the welcome letter and investment certificates 
showing his pension transfer had been invested based on the unit prices of the chosen 
investment funds as at 11 February 2020.
In September 2020 Mr R raised concerns with his SJP partner about the impact of the 
transfer delay. SJP issued its final response in September 2020. It accepted there had 
been an administrative error which had led to his transferred funds being invested late 
and his tax-free cash being paid out late. 
The final response explained that the cash had been received by SJP on 10 February 
2020 and should have been invested the following day  the 11 February 2020. To correct 
the error, SJP said it invested the cash based on investment values of 11 February 2020. 
In terms of paying out the tax-free cash, SJP said at the time it was taking six working 
days to pay out. So, Mr R should have received his cash on 18 February 2020, rather than 
12 March 2020, when it was received. To correct this shortcoming, SJP applied an interest 
rate of 8% simple per annum to the tax-free cash amount from 18 February 2020 until the 
date it was received on 12 March 2020. SJP then said it deducted basic rate tax from this 
interest amount, as required by HMRC. SJP said it paid Mr R an interest payment of 
£40.13, to compensate Mr R for the late payment of the tax-free cash. SJP also paid him 
£100 to cover the trouble and upset caused by the delay.
Mr R didnt accept SJPs offer of settlement and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into it and did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Our investigator 
concluded that SJPs offer of settlement was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr R didnt accept out investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. He said, in summary:
An error was made that went in his favour. As it was his money which led to the 
advantage, his pension fund should benefit from it, not SJP. SJPs role was to 
invest funds to make them grow for customers.
He should not have to share the burden of when things have not gone in SJPs 
favour for other customers.
Mr Rs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SJP have admitted the transfer delay. So, what I am considering here, is whether SJPs 
offer of settlement was a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances.
Where there has been an error or omission, this service looks to put the customer back into 
the same position as they would have been had that error or omission not occurred. 
Mr R points out that SJP have, in effect, benefitted from the error it made which is not a 
reasonable outcome. 
Had SJP not made an error, Mr Rs transferred cash would have been reinvested on 11 
February 2020 (the correct investment date). SJP has compensated Mr R on this 
basis. I consider that a fair and reasonable approach to take. It puts Mr Rs pension into 
the position it would have been in, had the error not occurred. This is in line with SJPs 
Terms and Conditions, which say that SJP use a next day pricing model.
By the time the error was put right, investment markets had fallen. So, Mr R would have 
been better off if the correct investment date was not used and his cash was invested at 
the delayed investment date  11 March 2020. However, it was equally feasible that 
investment markets could have risen over that period, and in applying the correct 
investment date SJP would then likely have been required to make up the shortfall. SJP 
has restored Mr Rs pension fund to the position it would have been in but for the error, so I 
cant reasonably require it to do more.
Mr Rs tax-free cash should have been paid out in a timely way. SJP added interest at 8% 
simple per annum for the period of the delay. As our investigator explained, the approach 
taken by SJP is consistent with how our service often requires a business to compensate a 
customer where there has been a delay.
The deduction of basic rate tax from this interest amount is a requirement of HMRC, with 
Mr R being able to reclaim this directly from HMRC, should his tax status allow.
Given the above, like our investigator, I consider SJP acted fairly in the way it 
compensated Mr R for the delay in paying over his tax-free cash.
SJP clearly caused Mr R some trouble and upset here as a result it actions. However, I 
note that it acknowledged its shortcomings and put things right at an earlier opportunity. I 
also agree that £100 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to compensate 
him for this trouble and upset. I consider this to be in line with other awards made by this 
service in situations like this.     
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman