DRN-3047511
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly increased the cost of his private 
health insurance policy as a result of him claiming on the policy. He says that when the 
policy migrated in 2017, he wasnt told that it now included a No Claims Discount (NCD) 
and any claims made under the policy would impact the cost of the insurance premium going 
forwards. 
What happened
Mr B had the benefit of a secure health medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. It 
had been renewed year on year until September 2017. AXA says it took the decision to 
close the secure health branded policy and migrated policyholders to its personal health 
branded policy. 
AXA invited Mr B to take out its personal health policy on the same underwriting terms with 
effect of September 2017. Mr B agreed and the personal health policy renewed year on year 
thereafter.
When the policy was due to renew in 2019, the premium increased by over 40%. And prior 
to the policy renewing in September 2020, Mr B was notified that the premium had again 
increased by over 40% on the year before. Mr B was very concerned with this increase and 
raised a complaint with AXA.
AXA said the personal health branded policy contained a NCD, meaning that if Mr B made a 
claim on the policy the NCD would reduce by three levels. And this would increase the cost 
of the policy. 
Mr B says he wasnt told about the NCD before agreeing to take out the policy in 2017. 
AXA didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It says he was informed of the key changes between 
the secure health and personal health policies before the personal health policy began. And 
that included information about the NCD. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr B complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. As Mr B disagrees, his complaint has been passed to me to 
consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Migrating to the personal health policy
Im satisfied that the secure health policy was renewable annually. When Mr B renewed the 
policy in 2016, the terms and conditions set out that AXA will provide cover for one year. And 
under the heading: your rights and responsibilities (at section 12), it says: 
Prior to the end of any policy year we will write to the policyholder to advise on what 
terms the policy will continue, provided the policy you are on is still available If the 
policy you were on is no longer available we will do our best to offer you cover on an 
alternative policy. 
It goes on to say: 
We can change all or any part of the policy from any renewal date. We will give you 
reasonable notice of changes to your policy terms.
AXA says it decided to close the secure health policy from the market in around 2017 and I 
havent seen any evidence to doubt what it says about that. Im satisfied that was a 
commercial decision it was free to make. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to direct 
that it must continue to offer that branded policy to its policyholders, including Mr B. 
The secure health policy was due to renew on 7 September 2017. AXA wrote to Mr B over 
one month before this, on 3 August 2017. It explained that AXA regularly reviews the cover 
and benefits provided to its members. As part of its review, it said it was closing the secure 
health policy and replacing it with its personal health policy. Mr B was also told that there 
would be no break in cover and the policy would continue on the same medical underwriting 
terms as the secure heath policy - and that hed be covered for conditions hed previously 
been covered for. 
Im satisfied this gave Mr B a reasonable amount of time to consider his options and explore 
alternative medical insurance with other providers, if he so wished. I think that was fair and 
reasonable.
Im also satisfied that the information about the NCD which formed part of the personal 
health policy was clearly and fairly set out in the information sent to Mr B undercover of the 
letter dated 3 August 2017. And I dont think the information was misleading. 
Mr B accepts that he received this letter and enclosures. There was a key differences 
document. Information about the NCD isnt contained on page 1; its set out on the second 
page. Mr B says he didnt realise there was a second page. He thought the second page 
contained marketing material, which he didnt read in detail. The key differences document 
isnt separately numbered, but the first page does say: key differences continued overleaf. 
And the second page sets out similar boxes with information about the key differences 
between the polices, just like the first page. And the different boxes set out what was 
covered under the two policies in relation to certain treatment.
It also contains the following information which is set out in a separate section headed: no 
claims discount. Its reflected:
Your new Personal Health plan has a no claims discount (NCD), which applies to 
each person on your plan. The way that the NCD works on Personal Health is slightly 
different to your current policy. There are more discount steps in the Personal Health 
NCD scale, up to a maximum of 80%. Weve put you and your family members onto 
the new scale and the membership certificate in your membership pack confirms the 
level of discount that applies.Any future claims paid against your current policy will not reduce your discount on the 
Personal Health NCD scale. However, claims made on your new plan will reduce 
your NCD at your next renewal. In future, if we pay claims both before and after we 
work out your renewal subscription we will count them as separate claims, even 
when they are for the same medical condition.
There are some claims that will never count against your NCD  you can find a list of 
these in section 5.5 of your handbook Please see section 5.5 Your no claims 
discount of your new membership handbook for full details of how the no claims 
discount works.
Im satisfied this clearly sets out that the personal plan contains a NCD bonus and claims 
made on personal health plan during a policy year will reduce Mr Bs NCD at the next 
renewal. And section 5.5 of the membership handbook confirms by which percentage the 
NCD can increase or reduce by at the point of renewal depending on whether a claim has 
been made. 
Mr B says that even if hed been aware of the inclusion of the NCD in the personal health 
policy he wouldve been restricted in his choice about whether to end the policy with AXA 
given his pre-existing medical conditions. I understand the point Mr B makes as new medical 
insurance policies do typically exclude pre-existing medical conditions or are underwritten on 
a moratorium basis. But in my experience, its not unusual for private medical insurers to 
take into account claims made on the policy when calculating the premium for the following 
year and/or contain NCDs. And further, as Ive explained above, whether to continue to offer 
particular branded policy was a commercial decision for AXA to make.  
The increase in premium 
Mr B accepts that his medical insurance is likely to increase slightly year on year and I can 
see that notwithstanding the reduction in NCDs when renewing the policy in September 
2019 and 2020, the premium increased by other factors which medical insurers often take 
into account by 4.8% and 2.5% per year, respectively. However, Mr B is concerned with the 
amount by which his premium increased due to the reduction in NCD  particularly when 
renewing his policy in 2020. 
However, Mr B did make claims on the policy in the years immediately preceding the 
renewals in 2019 and 2020. So, his NCD reduced by three levels each year as set out in the 
policy terms.
When his policy renewed in September 2019, his NCD percentage reduced from 70% to 
59.5% and this made the policy more expensive. And when the policy renewed again in 
September 2020, the NCD had gone down a further three levels in line with the policy terms 
as further claims had been made in the policy year preceding. This further reduced the NCD 
from 59.5% to 43%. Again, this made the premium more expensive. 
I can understand why this feels unfair to Mr B but Im satisfied that Mr B did make claims on 
his policy and so, AXA acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
reducing the NCD percentage when renewing the policy in 2019 and 2020. And Im satisfied 
its acted fairly and reasonably by doing so. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But I hope it will help him to know that his 
complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent of the parties 
involved.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman