DRN-4172754
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Vauxhall Finance plc dealt with his request to settle a 
conditional sale agreement early. 
Mr S has been represented but, to keep things simple, Ill refer to Mr S throughout.
What happened
Mr S acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall Finance in 
September 2021. The cash price of the car was £6,995 and Mr S paid a £2,300 deposit. He 
therefore borrowed £4,695. The total charge for credit (interest) was £1,344.60. Ive not seen 
any other fees or charges. Mr S was required to pay back the agreement with monthly 
payments of £100.66 for 60 months starting one month after he acquired the car. 
From what I can see Mr S says he wanted to settle the agreement early and he did this in 
January 2023. By settling the agreement early, he received a rebate of interest. Mr S 
complains that this rebate was approximately £250 short. And so he complained. 
Vauxhall Finance responded to say interest is charged to an account on an actuarial basis in 
accordance with the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said interest is calculated in accordance 
with the mathematical formula set out in the Consumer Credit (Total Charge for Credit) 
Regulations 2010. And it said it calculated the rebate in line with the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. It highlighted that under the regulations it allowed it to quote 
the effective settlement date as being 28 days from the consumers request to early settle. 
And that a further 30 days interest is then also charged from that date. 
Vauxhall Finance said it couldnt provide a clear breakdown, but it gave a link to the 
regulations that set out the relevant formula. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the answer and so referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators said from the information shed seen, Vauxhall Finance had used the correct 
formula, and that shed not seen enough to say it had made a mistake. So she didnt make 
any recommendations. 
Mr S responded to say its unfair that Vauxhall finance refused to provide evidence of the 
figures used, or its calculation. So as things werent resolved, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has complained about how Vauxhall Finance administered a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Im not going to go over all the legislation again in detail because Vauxhall Finance and our 
investigator have already explained how Vauxhall Finance is meant to deal with early 
settlements in line with the relevant law. And Mr S isnt disputing that the rebate should have 
been calculated in line with the relevant formula.
What Mr S is unhappy about is that Vauxhall Finance hasnt shown its workings out. And I 
can understand why hes unhappy about that. Its not unreasonable to want to know the 
financial firm is calculating what is owed correctly. 
However, Im required to consider complaints quickly and with minimum formality. The 
relevant formula isnt straight-forward. And were not generally in a position to audit a 
lenders calculations. The respondent firm is usually better placed to work out the figures. So 
what I need to consider is whether theres been an obvious error to enable me to conclude 
that Vauxhall Finances figures are incorrect. 
Mr S hasnt disputed the amount Vauxhall Finance said was outstanding prior to the rebate. 
This was £4,529.70. If thats right, it means Mr S had made 15 payments by that point. This 
totals £1,509.90 (15 X £100.66). And I think this would be for payments from October 2021 
(one month after he acquired the car) to December 2022 (the month before settling the 
agreement). To check, I calculated the total amount payable (£8,339.60) less the deposit 
(£2,300) less the 15 payments (£1,509.90) and came up with the same figure Vauxhall 
Finance had  £4,529.70. 
As a starting point, it looks like the base figures were correct. While Ive explained were not 
generally in a position to audit Vauxhall Finances calculations, I tried inputting the details on 
three online calculators that say they use the formula in the early settlement regulations. All 
of these calculators came up with a balance owing of around £3,800  which is around the 
sum Mr S was asked to pay (£3,811.74). So Ive not seen theres an obvious error in 
Vauxhall Finances calculations. I therefore dont find I have the grounds to direct Vauxhall 
Finance to recalculate the settlement and ultimately make payment to Mr S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman