DRN-3196409
The complaint
Miss E complains that a used car supplied by Honda Finance Europe Plc (HF) under a 
finance agreement was of unsatisfactory quality and HF should pay for repairs.
What happened
Miss E got this car in August 2017 with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from HF. The HPA 
ended in August 2020 and Miss E made the final payment required in order to keep the car. 
In March 2021 the car broke down and had to be recovered. The breakdown service and the 
supplying dealer both thought there was an issue with the cam belt. The manufacturer was 
contacted and, after further discussions with expert technicians, they concluded that the 
timing belt tensioner had a fault which caused extensive engine damage and the engine 
would have to be replaced.
The manufacturer agreed to pay for a replacement engine, as a goodwill gesture, but 
wouldnt cover the cost of labour and other parts. The dealer discounted labour costs and 
arranged for a courtesy car which still left over £2,000 to be paid by Miss E. She thinks thats 
unfair - as this particular part shouldnt have failed after only four years and about 42,000 
miles. She says the failure couldnt have resulted from normal wear and tear and HF should 
be responsible for the balance of repair costs.
HF accepts responsibility for the quality of the car at the point of supply but says this issue 
occurred more three and a half years after that - and it shouldnt be held responsible for 
repair costs as the manufacturer found no inherent manufacturing or material defect. 
Our investigator recommends the complaint should be upheld. He doesnt think a reasonable 
person would expect a car of this age and mileage to need the engine replaced so soon. He 
says a cam belt tensioner should last for at least 60,000 miles and around seven years. Hes 
not persuaded this part is likely to have failed due to driving style or any misuse of the 
vehicle  and, if there was evidence of that, hed expect the dealer to have said so. He thinks 
its more likely than not the part failed prematurely because it wasnt reasonably durable and 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The investigator notes that repairs were undertaken and the engine wasnt stripped at the 
manufacturers recommendation (to save time and money) so the dealer couldnt identify a 
cause. Hes not persuaded it would be fair to ask Miss E to obtain more evidence - such as 
an independent experts report  in this situation. And he doesnt think its right that she 
should be out of pocket. He recommends HF should reimburse the cost of repairs that Miss 
E paid (£2,225.87) plus interest.'
Miss E accepted the investigators recommendations but HF didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. It says (in summary):-
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) specifically states that a consumer needs to 
prove that any fault or defect was present at the time of delivery if it appears more 
than six months after - so the burden of proof lies with Miss E;
manufacturers offer a warranty to give customers confidence that issues arising 
within a specific period will be covered, some manufacturers offer longer than 
others, and the issue here occurred outside of the relevant manufacturers 
standard three year warranty period;
theres no indication from either the manufacturer or technicians that checked the car 
that this issue was inherent or developing at the point of supply and the 
manufacturer didnt find any examples in similar vehicles produced in the same 
factory with the same manufacturing process and components - which suggests 
the problem was due to external factors not an inherent manufacturing defect;
many factors determine the lifespan of a part  including driving style and vehicle 
maintenance - theres no evidence to show what caused this problem specifically; 
and
the manufacturer made a significant contribution towards the cost of repairs which is 
fair and reasonable overall.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold this complaint but my 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators. I issued a provisional decision on 5 
November 2021 to let the parties see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) 
before I made my final decision. What I decided provisionally - and why - is set out below 
and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete - as some 
of it is here - I make my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and I must take account of the relevant law 
(amongst other things). Im satisfied this includes the CRA here. But, its not my role to apply 
the law - only a court can do that. I make my decision based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable - in all of the circumstances of this complaint.
HF supplied this car to Miss E under a under a HPA and it was obliged to ensure that the car 
was of satisfactory quality at the outset, under the CRA. The quality of goods includes 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, fitness for purpose and durability. And 
the standard that is to be considered satisfactory will vary depending on individual 
circumstances. In the case of a used car its generally reasonable to take into account the 
age and mileage at the point of supply.
Miss Es car cost £16,500, was about five months old and had nearly 7,000 miles on the 
clock when she got it in 2017. So, I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect it to meet the 
same standard as a brand new car but they would expect it to be relatively fault free at that 
point and fairly durable. The car broke down in March 2021 and there seems to be no 
dispute that this was due to the failure of the cambelt tensioner - which caused such 
catastrophic damage that the engine had to be replaced. HF says theres no evidence that 
this issue was the result of an inherent manufacturing defect. And, given the time Miss E had 
the car, the distance she was able to travel and the problem appeared more than six months 
after supply, its for her to show the car was of unsatisfactory quality when she got it.
I accept that 19(14) of the CRA says if goods do not conform to the contract (are of unsatisfactory quality for our purposes) within six months of supply then theyre taken not to 
have conformed at the point of supply. But, I dont think that means any issue arising after 
six months must not have been present at the point of supply. The CRA goes on to say 
(under Section 19(15)) the presumption under s19(14) doesnt apply if it is established that 
goods did conform to the contract at the outset - or its application is incompatible with the 
nature of the goods or with how they failed to conform with the contract. 
I think its possible for faults that appear within six months to prove not to have been there at 
the outset sometimes. Likewise, issues that arise after six months can turn out to have been 
present at the start, at times. In this case, Ive considered all of the available evidence about 
the particular part that failed in order to decide whats most likely. Like the investigator, I 
dont think cars of this age and mileage usually need the engine replacing - in the normal 
course of events. I cant be certain what went wrong with Miss Es car exactly, from the 
evidence Ive seen. But, Im satisfied the nature of this breakdown seems to be consistent 
with the failure of an engine part that wouldnt ordinarily be expected to fail through normal 
wear and tear at the relevant time.
I appreciate the manufacturer says there isnt an inherent defect present. But, its difficult to 
see how that was ruled out conclusively in these particular circumstances - given the dealer 
confirmed the engine wasnt stripped for further investigation on the manufacturers 
recommendation. I understand the manufacturer has checked if other cars manufactured 
around the same time in the same factory had similar issues and found none. But, that 
doesnt tell me anything about what went wrong with this particular vehicle. And its 
somewhat frustrating that the manufacturer would go to the time and trouble of carrying out 
that sort of investigation but recommend that the dealer shouldnt strip the engine in order to 
try and establish what went wrong exactly with Miss Es car.
I have considered what HF says about other outside elements that may cause a component 
to fail. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that this was a maintenance issue. The dealer has 
confirmed that the car was serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations. And I 
dont think the mileage Miss E covered in the time she had the car is out of the ordinary or 
otherwise excessive. On balance, Im not persuaded its likely that Miss Es driving style - or 
some other external factor - is likely to have affected this particular part so as to cause this 
fault.
I think its more likely than not the car had an inherent manufacturing issue that caused the 
tensioner to fail. Im satisfied this was probably present or developing at the point of supply 
meaning the car was of unsatisfactory quality when Miss E got it. I think it was reasonable of 
the manufacturer to offer to cover the cost of a new engine (about £14,000). I understand the 
manufacturer may well feel the cost of repairs should be shared in this sort of situation. But, 
Im looking at HFs obligations arising under the finance in this decision.
Im satisfied that HF was required to supply a car of satisfactory quality at the outset. For the 
reasons Ive explained, Im minded to find this car didnt meet that standard. I dont think its 
fair for Miss E to have to pay for (or contribute towards the cost of) repairs required due to 
this faulty part. And I find it is fair and reasonable for HF to refund the related cost, plus 
interest.
When the investigator provided his view the dealer had indicated that the cost of diagnostics, 
parts and labour (over and above that covered by the manufacturer) was likely to be about 
£2,225. The dealer said it couldnt be certain this would be the final cost until the work was 
carried out. We asked Miss E for evidence of the actual cost to her and she supplied an 
invoice totalling. £2,387.55. I can see that £50 of the total was for an MOT and I dont think 
its fair for HF to be expected to pay that - which Miss E accepts. Aside from this, it looks as 
if the rest of the costs incurred relate to work and parts associated with replacing the engine. So, Im minded to find HF should refund £2,337.55, plus interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I issued my provisional decision I invited the parties to consider my provisional 
findings and let me have any further comments or information by 19 November 2021. I also 
explained that I would consider all the evidence available after that date and make my final 
decision.
Miss E accepts my provisional conclusions and HF has nothing further to add so I see no 
reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view it is more likely than not this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. And I find it is fair and reasonable for HF to 
reimburse Miss E for the repair costs incurred as a result (plus interest). 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Honda Finance Europe Plc to refund 
£2,337.55 repair costs plus interest, at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement. 
If HF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest part of my award, it should tell Miss E how much its taken off and give her a tax 
certificate, if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman