DRN-3175466
The complaint
Mr H complains Equifax Limited have recorded incorrect information on his credit file which 
led to him being declined for a personal loan.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr H applied for a loan with a lender, which was declined. Mr H has provided 
information from the lender that explains as part of their assessment for the loan, they 
referred to information supplied by Equifax which indicated there may be a problem with Mr 
Hs credit history. Or anyone Mr H may have a financial association with.
When Mr H checked his credit report, he saw that on the dashboard page of the report it 
showed there was a missed payment reported for one of his credit cards with a bank Ill refer 
to as A. Mr H says the dashboard also shows his credit score was low. However, when 
checking the full detailed report, Mr H says he could see all his payments were up to date.
Mr H contacted Equifax to make them aware that this was incorrect and that he felt the loan 
was declined because of this incorrect information. Mr H says he needed the loan in order to 
help with the purchase of a house. As a result of the loan application being declined, Mr H 
had to rely on borrowing money from a family member who lived abroad and also says that 
his partner had to take out a high interest loan to secure the purchase of the house. Mr H 
says this caused him a lot of stress and that he incurred financial losses as a result of 
borrowing money from his family member.
Mr H also says he experienced poor customer service as he contacted Equifax three times 
and each time, he was told that a response would be provided within 48 hours. But this didnt 
happen. Mr H has asked that Equifax correct his credit file as well as compensate him 
£50,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Equifax looked into Mr Hs concerns. In relation to Mr Hs credit file, they could see he had 
an agreement with A to alter the original payment terms he had when the account was 
opened. As a result, the status for this account was showing as I (or arrangement to pay 
status). However, Equifax recognised the dashboard section of Mr Hs credit report had 
incorrectly displayed the number of months since payment missed with reference to the I 
status. So, Equifax apologised for this and changed this display to number of months since 
last negative repayment status. 
In any case, while Equifax acknowledged this error, they said the wording on Mr Hs 
dashboard is designed to highlight noteworthy sections of his report and that this information 
is only displayed to him, it isnt shared with any lenders. Equifax also explained this would be 
the same for Mr Hs score  that it would only appear to him and is designed to be indicative 
of a lenders view. So, in relation to Mr H being declined for the loan, Equifax said when an 
individual makes an application for credit, their information goes through an automated or 
partially automated decision-making process and that each lender uses their own internal 
criteria when deciding whether to lend. So, Equifax advised Mr H to look into the reason 
further as to why the lender declined his loan application.
In relation to the customer service Mr H experienced, Equifax apologised and acknowledged 
the service Mr H received was below the standard they expected. In total, Equifax offered Mr 
H £50 compensation for how certain information was displayed on his credit report 
dashboard page and the customer service he experienced. However, Mr H didnt accept this.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns. In summary, she said she was satisfied the 
information on Mr Hs credit report dashboard wasnt visible to lenders. So, the decision to 
decline Mr Hs loan application was unlikely to have been based on what was appearing on 
his dashboard. Also, our Investigator said she couldnt see Equifax were reporting 
information about Mr Hs credit card account with A incorrectly. In relation to the customer 
service Mr H experienced, our Investigator felt that he was caused distress and 
inconvenience. But she felt Equifaxs offer of £50 was reasonable. So, she didnt ask Equifax 
to do anything more.
Mr H disagreed. He said he doesnt think its possible he was refused a loan because his 
credit card account with A shows as an arrangement to pay on his credit report. Mr H said 
its confusing that another credit reference agency (CRA) shows he has a great credit 
history, but Equifaxs report doesnt show the same. Mr H also said he was given a mortgage 
when supplying his credit report with the other CRA to a lender, but that he was refused the 
loan when supplying his Equifax credit report  despite these two applications being made 
around the same time. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Equifax have said that they recognise there was an error in how certain 
information was displayed on the dashboard of Mr Hs credit file. As a result, Equifax 
apologised and corrected this. What I need to decide upon is whether this error has 
impacted Mr H and if Equifax need to do anything more to put things right.
Mr H has acknowledged he was in an arrangement to pay with A, but feels the incorrect 
information appearing on his dashboard led to him being declined for the loan he applied for. 
As Equifax have explained, the information on Mr Hs credit report dashboard isnt 
something that is shared with lenders and is only visible to Mr H himself, just like his credit 
score. So, on balance, I dont think its likely Mr Hs loan application was declined because of 
the information on his credit report dashboard page.
Mr H has provided us with information from the lender he applied for the loan with. And I can 
see they have said there are several factors they take into consideration when a request for 
lending is received. These are things such as Mr Hs track record with the bank, his income 
and affordability to repay borrowing and also information supplied to them by CRAs. As part 
of the lenders assessment, they referred to information supplied by Equifax which indicated 
there may be a problem with Mr Hs credit history. 
As Mr H acknowledges, he was in an arrangement to pay with A. And I can see it shows 
theres an arrangement to pay with A in the full credit report Mr H provided us with. Equifax 
have explained that there are a variety of account statuses or markers which can be said to 
have a negative impact on a credit score. Being in an arrangement to pay is an indication 
that Mr H couldnt meet his contractual payment with A, which could be a potential warning 
to prospective lenders. So, on balance, this could have been information the lender took into 
consideration when making their decision.I can understand Mr Hs frustrations, especially as Equifax made an error in how the 
information was displayed on Mr Hs credit report dashboard page. But as its unlikely the 
lender would have been able to see this, I dont think they declined Mr Hs loan application 
based on this information. 
I note Mr H says his mortgage was approved around the same time as the loan was 
declined, which he doesnt feel makes sense. I appreciate Mr Hs point but as our 
Investigator explained, theres different things lenders will take into account when assessing 
whether to provide lending to a customer  and a lenders lending criteria may be different 
for different financial products. 
In relation to the customer service Mr H received, I can see from Equifaxs internal notes that 
Mr H contacted them on more than one occasion about how information was appearing on 
his credit report dashboard page. Mr H described to Equifax the impact this issue was 
having on him and that he hadnt received a response from them  I can see from the notes 
that Mr H called Equifax on 17 May 2021 to raise his concerns and his complaint was first 
acknowledged by them on 1 June 2021. Equifax have acknowledged they could have done 
more and that there were delays in responding to Mr H, so they offered him £50 
compensation in total. Having thought about this and the delay in responding to Mr H, I think 
this offer is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Equifax Limited should pay Mr H £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman