DRN-1461862
 
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint to MBNA Limited (MBNA) concerns payments he made using his MBNA 
credit. He was unhappy with the merchant and so raised a chargeback dispute which was 
unsuccessful.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr H and MBNA, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr H made a number of purchases from an on-line gaming merchant using his credit card. 
He made those purchases through Google Play. Mr H thinks he was contracting with Google 
Play since that is the organisation to which he sent his money.
Being unhappy with one such purchase hed made for £99.99, he raised a dispute with 
MBNA who refunded him temporarily under the chargeback scheme. Mr H then received an 
in app message from the merchant to say if he didnt repay the £99.99 his account would be 
closed. When Mr H then raised a query with the merchant over the purchase, that resulted in 
his on-line account being blocked and he was unable to play his game.
Mr H contacted Google Play again and they refunded £300.89 to his MBNA account being 
those payments he had made in the previous 48 hours. But when MBNA raised the 
chargeback dispute with Google Play they defended it on the basis that they had acted as a 
payment processor and had fulfilled the service they provided by transferring funds to the 
on-line gaming merchants account. So Mr Hs account was then debited again. 
MBNA have rejected Mr Hs complaint as they say they tried to raise a chargeback claim but 
having considered Google Play defence to it, they accept that it would not succeed under 
any reason code.
Mr H was unhappy with MBNAs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that MBNA 
had done anything wrong and that any chargeback claim was unlikely to be successful and 
MBNA had correctly followed its own chargeback process correctly.
He also considered that the £100 of compensation offered for MBNAs accepted delays in 
dealing with Mr Hs complaint were reasonable. Mr H didnt agree with that and asked that 
the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether MBNA acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have 
to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what 
Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that MBNA has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.
Regarding the substantive element of Mr Hs complaint I do sympathise with him. He has 
paid a lot of money to the merchant who has now blocked his account thus rendering all his 
purchases valueless until of course he makes the further requested payment to them, at 
which point they have indicated they will unblock his account. Whatever I might think of the 
merchants actions is irrelevant since that is a matter between Mr H and the merchant and 
this complaint is only dealing with the way in which MBNA handled the chargeback claim 
against Google Play. 
I know Mr H feels that he made a purchase from Google Play, but in fact he didnt. The 
purchase was from the merchant and Google Play were only the payment processors. The 
service Google Play provided was to transfer the funds to the merchant and as that is what 
they did. So having fulfilled that service any chargeback claim against them was always very 
unlikely to succeed because MBNA had done what they agreed to do.
Regarding the delays, MBNA has accepted that it didnt get things right, in part, and because 
of that it should compensate Mr H. And so it paid Mr H £50 for the first occasion of delay 
which he accepted, and then offered a further £50 for a second delay which he didnt accept. 
As Mr H doesnt believe this is sufficient to put matters right, Ive given this some further 
thought and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble 
and upset in similar cases. Ive also taken into account, in the light of my findings, the impact 
the error is likely to have had on Mr H.
In some complaints, the problems a customer encounters dont just affect them financially, 
and in part that is the case here. Those problems can lead to the customer being caused 
some trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what it could 
do to put matters right. Any award of compensation for trouble and upset caused needs to 
be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other 
people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at 
times.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what MBNA paid and offered in relation to the issue 
of delay is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr H will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst MBNA caused 
some delay for which they have paid and offered compensation, I cant say MBNA has 
subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
MBNA has already paid £50 and made an offer to pay a further £50 to settle the complaint in 
so far as the delays are concerned, and this is fair and reasonable. So my final decision is 
that MBNA should pay Mr H £50.For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman