DRN-2788710
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance UK Plc of a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy after his boundary wall collapsed.
What happened
On 29 March 2020, the boundary wall of Mr Ss home collapsed inwards. It fell against a 
section of greenhouse causing this also to collapse, and also caused damage to a fence 
surrounding a tennis court. Mr S made a claim under his policy. He provided a quote of 
£46,750 (excluding VAT) for rebuilding the wall and an invoice for £5,890 for the erection of 
temporary fencing where the wall had been.
AXAs loss adjuster assessed the claim. It declined cover for the wall on the grounds that 
there had been no strong winds at the time the wall collapsed. It agreed, however, to provide 
cover for the greenhouse and tennis court fence on the grounds that this fell under the 
policys cover for accidental damage. Based on a desktop assessment of pictures of the 
damage, it offered a settlement of £32,390 to cover the cost of these repairs.
Mr S obtained a report by a structural engineer (who Ill call Mr B) on the cause of the walls 
collapse. Mr B concluded that this was likely due to a large nearby tree whose roots had 
gradually caused the wall to rotate out of plumb.
After seeing Mr Bs report, AXA continued to decline the claim for the wall. It said that the 
damage had been caused gradually and thus was excluded from cover under the policy.
Mr S continued to dispute the settlement for the other repairs. AXA therefore arranged for a 
structural engineer to examine the greenhouse.
AXA eventually offered £38,900 (net of the policy excess) to cover the cost of repairs to the 
greenhouse and the tennis court fence.
Mr S was unhappy at this settlement offer. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings were as follows:
Boundary wall
The policy states:
The Buildings are insured against loss or damage.
The policy does not qualify this by reference to any insured perils, such as storm. I consider 
it is reasonable to assume that this is therefore an all risks policy, meaning that the loss or 
damage will be covered under the policy unless there is a particular exclusion which applies.
The policy has various exclusions, among which is the following:
Gradual damage/deterioration/maintenance
Any loss or damage caused gradually or by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects 
of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from 
the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your Buildings and its Contents.
Mr B thought that the roots of an adjacent tree over the years had caused the rotation of the 
wall so that it was out of plumb. A horizontal force, perhaps from a large lorry passing or a 
gust of wind, had then caused the wall to collapse.
Although it is not clear what exactly precipitated the walls collapse, it seems likely that it was 
due in part to an issue which had been ongoing for some time and Mr Bs theory seems 
plausible. On this basis, AXA declined cover citing the above exclusion.
Our investigator has explained that the longstanding approach of this service is that it is 
unfair for an insurer to rely on such an exclusion if the consumer couldnt reasonably have 
been aware the damage was occurring. This is correct but this is relevant only to situations 
where the damage cant be seen; for example, because it is hidden behind a kitchen cabinet. 
In this case, the damage wasnt hidden. The wall in question could be examined from both 
sides. Mr B said that the wall must have been significantly out of plumb to have collapsed 
in the way it did.
I therefore consider that Mr S should reasonably have been aware that damage was 
occurring to the wall, even if he may not have known the cause of that damage. In view of 
this, I see no reason why AXA should not reasonably apply the exclusion for gradual 
damage to decline the claim.
Greenhouse
The greenhouse is 31 metres in length and the damage affects an 18 metre section. AXA 
conducted a desktop review of the damage and concluded that this could be repaired for 
around £8-10,000. Mr S said that the greenhouse couldnt be repaired and that it would need 
to be replaced in its entirety at a cost of almost £80,000. AXA eventually offered a settlement 
of £38,900 which also covered the cost of repairing the tennis court fence. It is not clear to 
me how this figure was arrived at.
The policy allows AXA to either repair or replace the greenhouse, or to pay for its repair or 
replacement. Although AXA said the damaged section of the greenhouse could be repaired 
and it wasnt necessary to demolish and replace the entire structure, it hasnt put forward 
any contractor who has confirmed such a repair is possible and is willing to do the work. 
Mr S has provided an opinion from a contractor who said that because the particular 
greenhouse is no longer in manufacture, and bearing in mind the nature of the damage, the 
only feasible course of action is to replace the entire greenhouse.
Given that AXA has not shown it is possible to repair just the damaged section of 
greenhouse, I consider it should provide cover for the replacement of the entire greenhouse. 
However, AXA may do this by arranging the replacement of the greenhouse itself, or by 
paying a cash settlement to Mr S based on quotes he provides.
Other costs
Mr S thinks AXA should also cover other costs he has incurred. These are for reports, 
professional fees for a quantity surveyor and the erection of temporary fencing where the 
boundary wall had collapsed.Mr S obtained reports from Mr B, an arboricultural expert, and a weather expert. He did so 
because he was under the impression he needed show his wall collapsed due to an insured 
peril, such as a storm. However, as I have explained, he didnt need to do this as he had an 
all risks policy and so the onus was instead on AXA to show why the claim should be 
excluded. I consider Mr S only incurred the cost of these reports due to AXAs failings in its 
handling of the claim. I therefore consider that AXA should reimburse him these costs, plus 
interest.
I dont consider it was necessary for Mr S to engage the services of a quantity surveyor. He 
has argued that this cost is covered under the terms of the policy. However, I cant see why 
AXA should be reimbursing this cost, particularly as the surveyor has not had to oversee any 
insured work.
In respect of the temporary fencing, given that I consider the collapse of his boundary wall 
wasnt covered by the policy, it follows that there is no cover for the installation of a 
temporary barrier in its place. In any case, I dont consider that Mr S has reasonably shown 
that it was essential from a legal viewpoint that he install this and his primary motive 
appeared to be for the security of his property.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision. 
Mr S didnt accept my findings in respect of the boundary wall. He disputed that the wall 
collapse was due to any issue with its foundations or because it was not plumb. He provided 
a report from a structural engineer which concluded that the collapse was entirely due to the 
force of the wind on the night in question.
AXA asked that it be allowed to appoint a contractor to see if the greenhouse could be 
repaired before moving to replacement. It commented on Mr Ss claim for damage to his 
tennis court surface. It also said it needed to check the value-at-risk (VAR) to complete its 
validation of the claim; it explained it hadnt been able to access the inside of the property 
previously to confirm the number of bedrooms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Boundary wall
Mr S has provided a new report by a structural engineer (who Ill call Mr H). It makes 
reference to a report in February 2021 by a weather expert (who Ill call Mr D) and attaches 
this as an appendix.
Mr Ds report of February 2021 states that it was prepared following a site visit and follows 
on from his desktop report of January 2021 with which it should be read in conjunction.
Mr Ds report of January 2021 noted there had been high levels of precipitation and some 
strong winds in the months before the wall collapsed; in particular, there were gusts of up to 
56mph on 10 February 2020. Mr D concluded that it was this confluence of meteorological 
impacts which caused the walls collapse, with the wind gusts of up to 37mph on the 
29 March 2020 being the straw that broke the camels back.
Mr Ds report of February 2021, produced after visiting the site, drew slightly different 
conclusions. He said that the debris of the wall made it near impossible to assess whether high levels of rainwater played a part in the collapse. Nonetheless, he said that given that 
there wasnt exceptional rainfall in March 2020, he was content to suggest that precipitation 
probably didnt contribute to the collapse. Instead, he concluded it was likely that high wind 
velocities  probably a combination of those in February 2020 and those on 29 March 2020 
in the opposite direction  would have played a pivotal part, or been the sole reason, for the 
walls collapse. However, Mr D also acknowledged that he was not qualified to make any 
comment on various matters including the physical structure of the wall, its stature, any 
impact of nearby trees, or to state whether or not the walls collapse was due entirely to the 
wind events described.
Mr H said in his report that the wall appeared to be in a reasonable condition before it 
collapsed, albeit that it was leaning slightly. He said there was no rotation of the foundation 
and no evidence to support Mr Bs theory that the adjacent tree had caused the damage. He 
said that according to Mr Ds report, there were winds of 56mph on the night the wall 
collapsed which may have been even stronger in the area of the property due to the local 
geography. Mr H said that in light of this, along with the good condition of the wall and the 
failure pattern of the wall, we can conclude without doubt that the wall collapsed due to the 
storm force wind loading on the 29th March 2020.
I find Mr Hs report to be flawed. If he had properly read both of Mr Ds reports, he would 
have realised that there were no storm force winds on the night the wall collapsed. In fact, 
the highest recorded wind speed nearby was 20mph but with gusts of up to 37mph. Mr D 
speculated that the gusts might have had increased velocity when they met the wall due to 
the local geography though he couldnt be specific about this. However, it seems unlikely 
that the wind was of such force that, by itself, it caused the wall to collapse. I consider that 
Mr Hs conclusion is based on an incorrect understanding of the weather conditions which 
prevailed on the night in question and can therefore be disregarded.
Furthermore, I dont find Mr Ds conclusions to be persuasive. Its not clear to me why he 
changed his mind about the potential contribution of rainfall to the walls collapse after 
making his site visit. But in any case, he is a weather expert rather than a structural expert 
and, by his own admission, is not really qualified to comment on what exactly caused the 
wall to collapse.
In summary, it is not clear what caused the wall to collapse. It might well have been a gust of 
wind on the night in question which was ultimately responsible but Mr B concluded that this 
was only after other forces, probably the roots of the adjacent tree, had weakened it and 
caused it to be significantly out of plumb. Mr H disagreed with Mr Bs findings but his own 
findings are lacking credibility as I describe above. 
On balance, I remain of the view that in the absence of a plausible explanation for the 
sudden failure of the wall, it is likely that the collapse was due to an issue which was ongoing 
for some time - perhaps caused by the weather, tree roots, or some other source - and 
which had left the wall vulnerable. Although a gust of wind may ultimately have caused the 
wall to collapse, I consider that this merely highlighted the existing damage. I therefore 
consider it was fair for AXA to decline the claim on the basis of the gradual damage 
exclusion.
Greenhouse
AXA has asked that it be allowed to appoint a contractor to see if the greenhouse can be 
repaired. However, I consider it has already had ample opportunity to take this step if it had 
wanted. 
In April 2020, Mr S obtained a quote which was for the replacement of the greenhouse because the contractor considered a repair was not possible.
After receiving this, AXA obtained a surveyors desktop assessment in June 2020 that the 
greenhouse could be repaired for £25,000. Based on this, AXA eventually offered a cash 
settlement of £32,390 which included the cost of replacing the irrigation system and the 
tennis court fence (though it later offered to increase this further to £38,900).
Mr S disputed the surveyors findings that a repair was possible and so in September 2020 
AXA sent a structural engineer to inspect the greenhouse. The engineer concluded that the 
undamaged part of the greenhouse was structurally sound. This meant the greenhouse, in 
theory, could be repaired rather than completely replaced. However, the engineer didnt go 
so far as to say this was definitely a practical solution.
Mr S obtained another contractors opinion, also in September 2020, which was that 
because the greenhouse was a discontinued model it was not feasible to carry out a repair.
AXA then obtained another surveyors desktop assessment which concluded that a repair 
could be carried out for as little as £8-10,000 apparently by installing a bespoke frame to fit 
the existing structure. This satisfied AXA that its settlement offer was fair. However, Mr S 
has been unable to find anyone who is able to carry out such a repair and, until now, AXA 
has neither suggested anyone nor offered to do the work itself.
I consider that Mr S has made AXA known of his concerns for some time and it is too late for 
AXA to now offer to try and find a contractor who might be able to carry out a repair. Instead, 
I consider it is reasonable to say that the whole greenhouse needs replacing though, as 
noted in my provisional decision, it is open to AXA to arrange to carry out this work itself as 
opposed to paying Mr S a cash settlement. 
  
Other costs
Neither party has commented on my findings in respect of other costs incurred by Mr S. Im 
therefore satisfied that my provisional findings should stand and AXA should meet the 
particular costs specified.
Other matters
In its response to my provisional decision, AXA also commented on Mr Ss claim for damage 
caused to his tennis court surface by the damaged greenhouse. Mr S didnt initially include 
the damage to the tennis court surface in his claim to AXA and so, let me clarify, I have not 
considered this within my decision.
AXA also said it still needs to complete its validation of the claim by confirming the value-at-
risk (in other words, making sure that Mr S was not under-insured). I note that the claim was 
made just after the country had gone into lockdown due to the coronavirus and this 
hampered AXAs ability to complete its normal checks. I consider it is reasonable to allow 
AXA to now do this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
subject to completing its validation of the claim through confirming the value-at-risk, 
accept and settle the claim for a full replacement of the greenhouse; andupon receipt of appropriate evidence from Mr S, reimburse him for the cost of the reports 
by Mr B, the arboricultural expert and the weather expert and add interest to this at the 
annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date Mr S paid for each report to the date 
of settlement. If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman