DRN-2066265
The complaint
Mr F says Canada Square Operations Limited (CSOL), trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a new credit card in 2003. 
Ill refer mainly to CSOL throughout my decision for consistency.
What happened
I can see that Mr F has already been offered some money for the commission CSOL 
received from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators recently re-looked into this 
case in detail and didnt think Mr F had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Mr F disagreed and still thought he had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. Hes asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision about his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint about the mis-sale.
These events are obviously from some time considerable ago and Ive taken that into 
account. But Im afraid many of the recollections Mr F has about the sale and his own 
circumstances of the time do seem inconsistent and somewhat contradictory with other 
evidence we have. Nevertheless, Ive taken care to look at all the information and evidence 
weve been provided with to assess what is more likely to have happened in this case.
 
To begin with, Ive looked at the sales process and whether the PPI was ever agreed to. 
CSOL sent us its computerised records which show the card was taken out over the internet. 
We know quite a bit about these sales because weve seen a few of them and weve spoken 
in considerable detail to CSOL about how they were normally carried out.
CSOL also sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks Mr F would have 
used during his online credit card application. It says he would have been presented with a 
yes / no choice about having PPI with his new card. CSOL says he would have had to 
choose one of the two options to be able to continue his way through to the next stage of the 
application and that he must have chosen the yes option on the screen for PPI to be added.
Theres no dispute Mr F was sold PPI. So I think hed have selected the yes option and 
then also started to see the PPI charges appearing on his monthly statements over quite a 
long period of time. I also think Mr F would have been sent a welcome letter explaining the 
PPI because Ive seen other very similar cases where this was done. CSOL also sent us a 
library copy of what this letter would have been like in 2003.
So, on this basis I think its much more likely Mr F asked for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if he hadnt agreed, he would have 
wanted to know what the letter was for and why the charges were occurring.
Mr F initially told us the PPI wasnt something he needed because he had a good job with 
good protection offered against sickness and unemployment. I can see he also told CSOL at 
the time that he had been so employed and with his employer for three years. CSOL has this 
recorded on the archived information it still has about Mr Fs circumstances as at the time of 
his credit card application. So I dont agree with Mr F when he says CSOL should have done 
more to check whether he needed PPI with his card or that it should have checked whether 
he had other means, such as saving or other types of insurance. Thats because CSOL 
didnt provide an advised sale here; Mr F would have made his own way through the on-line 
application in his own time and without any direct help from CSOL. It therefore needed only 
to provide him with enough information so he could decide for himself whether or not he 
wanted PPI and whether it was right for him.
I can accept CSOL might not have done everything right. But the application process 
contained an electronic link to information about what the PPI covered and the main rules 
governing what could be claimed for. The cost of the cover was also shown beside where he 
was invited to make his choice. On this basis, I think hed have had enough information on 
which to base his decision about whether or not to have PPI with his new card. I also dont 
think Mr F was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. And 
because it cost £0.74 for every £100 outstanding on his monthly credit card balance, I think it 
wouldve been affordable for Mr F. 
In the event of a successful claim on the PPI policy, Mr F wouldve also been able to have 
his outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. Looking at his 
overall situation, I think this is probably why he chose the PPI on his application  I think he 
wanted the cover.
Mr F then subsequently said he wasnt employed in the way he recalls; he says he was self-
employed and his assertion now is that this should make a difference to whether the PPI 
was correctly sold. Hes also mentioned that he had substantial savings and unlimited 
resources elsewhere to support him if he ever needed help paying off his credit card debt. 
Ive thought about what Mr F has now told us and also looked at some bank statements he 
says shows he was self-employed, rather than working for the company hed told us and 
CSOL about.
However, I think the best evidence is from what Mr F said in 2003, at the time of the sale. 
Here, I think the evidence is strong that he told CSOL that he was employed and had been 
for three years. I note the application form could have allowed him to select self-employed 
but this wasnt checked during the on-line process. Mr F also quoted a relatively good 
salary during the application process and was granted the new card on the basis of his 
disclosures, which I think CSOL had a right to expect were true and accurate. 
Im afraid I also dont accept Mr Fs bank statements alone are evidence enough of him 
having a different employment from the one he stated on the form, particularly when set 
against the all other evidence he himself supplied on his application. The statements are 
open to interpretation and Ive seen no other evidence of self-employment, such as the type 
of national insurance contributions wed expect to see as supporting evidence.
Ive thought about what Mr F says about his other resources too. Its good when family 
members can offer support and Im sure Mr Fs close family would have intended and 
wanted to help him if he ever encountered financial difficulties. But relying on this indefinitely isnt a credible alternative to being insured, as it always depends on other factors prevailing 
at the time. The PPI was therefore of use.
All this means CSOL doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. I think Mr F 
clearly said he was employed at the time and therefore met the criteria for the PPI 
unemployment insurance rules. I also think the PPI was of some use and the correct consent 
was obtained during the sale. 
CSOL has agreed to pay back to Mr F the commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. I think this is fair. 
My final decision
I dont have enough evidence to say the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Canada Square 
Operations Limited doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But it does have 
to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman