DRN-1602196
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr L says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr L applied for his card by post, in his own time and without any involvement or pressure 
from a staff member. His application form had a section for optional features, one of which 
was PPI. There was a box he could tick if he wanted PPI, which could be left blank if he 
didnt want it. The box for PPI was ticked and Mr L signed the application to confirm his 
choices. So I think its most likely that Barclays made it clear Mr L didnt have to take out PPI 
and that he chose to take it  though I can understand why he might no longer remember 
doing so after so long.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. It 
did have to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr L chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out on 
top of Mr Ls work benefits and covered him for significantly longer. And he doesnt seem to 
have had any other protection. So the policy could have been useful for Mr L if something 
went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr L could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. So overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have 
put him off taking it out. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Barclays didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman