DRN-4028730
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt allow faster payments 
to go through and blocked his online banking. He says he had to phone Halifax several times 
before the payments were released and his online banking was unblocked. 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr W attempted to transfer the money held across several accounts with 
Halifax to another bank. He says hed seen in the press that Halifax had introduced the 
option for its staff to add pronouns to their name tags. Mr W disagreed with the policy, so he 
decided to move his money elsewhere.
Initially Mr W was able to move some money via online banking, but at a certain point Halifax 
refused a transfer and later blocked his online banking (following a further large payment 
attempt). A message prompted Mr W to call in to discuss the matter  which he did. 
The conversation lasted around an hour, with the agent querying why the transfers were 
being made. Mr W became frustrated with the security questions, and initially refused to 
answer some  but eventually the checks were completed, and the transfer was released. 
Halifax explained that the pattern and value of the transactions had been flagged by its 
system as suspicious and out of character, when compared with the usual account activity. 
The agent also added she couldnt guarantee the system wouldnt screen further payments 
for a check, but said that now Mr W had gone through security that was less likely. 
Mr W complained about the blocks, and raised that hed had no trouble transferring funds in 
 but it wasnt acceptable that Halifax was preventing him from easily moving his money. He 
wanted a separate complaint raised for every account he held, and explained that our 
service would charge a fee for each one referred. But Halifax said that as his concerns were 
about one issue (the security measures in place) it would only set up one complaint. 
Mr W also tried to downgrade his accounts during the call, but the helpline that could assist 
with that had closed for the day. A separate complaint has been referred to us about the 
difficulty Mr W had in changing his accounts from feepaying ones to current accounts. 
Following that conversation it seems further transfers werent able to go through. Mr W 
attempted to speak to Halifax twice that evening  but both calls were cut off after long waits. 
In the morning, Mr W spoke to the bank across several calls. He didnt have the required 
information to pass the security questions during some of them  so had to ring back. But 
eventually the remaining transfers were able to be made.
  
Mr W raised a separate complaint about the service provided by Halifax during the calls the 
following morning and the amount of security questions the bank required. Thats being 
considered by our service under a different reference.
In response to the complaint Halifax said it had taken the step to allow pronouns to be added 
to staff name badges to support colleagues to be themselves and feel included  as well as 
to avoid accidental misgendering. In relation to the trouble Mr W had transferring funds out 
of his accounts, Halifax apologised and offered a total of £95 compensation. The bank said 
security checks are necessary to protect its customers, but it shouldnt have required that 
many calls to complete the transactions. It also acknowledged there were long wait times to 
get through on the phone  so offered £20 towards call costs, and £75 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr W referred his concerns to our service for review. One of our 
investigators thought the compensation amount was fair, and Mr W replied to say he would 
now accept the offer. We let Halifax know, but that was missed by the bank and settlement 
wasnt paid. Subsequently Mr W asked for an ombudsman to reconsider the matter, in light 
of the delay in paying him. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying the provisions Halifax puts in place to support its staff arent 
something I have the power to comment on. The bank is free to make such changes, within 
the confines of the law, just as Mr W is free to disagree with those policies and to take his 
business elsewhere. What Ive considered is whether Halifax treated Mr W fairly once hed 
decided to do that, and attempted to transfer his money out of his accounts. Having 
reviewed everything, I agree there were some service failings  but I find that Halifaxs 
apology and compensation offer sufficiently resolves the complaint. Ive explained how I 
reached my decision below.
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr W to have transfers stopped and to need to 
call in to unblock the account. But, given the pattern of account activity immediately prior to 
the suspension, I think it was reasonable that Halifaxs system flagged he might potentially 
be at risk. A number of different factors would have prompted the banks intervention here  
including, but not limited to, the size and frequency of payments, particularly when compared 
with expected usage for these types of accounts, and the actual prior activity on them. 
This kind of monitoring is done to protect customers, and the bank itself, from fraud and 
other crime. Halifax does have to strike a balance, though, between looking out for its 
customers interests and carrying out their instructions  particularly as the starting position, 
at least in law, is that banks should be executing payment requests. It wouldnt be desirable 
or possible for it to screen every transaction either. That said, and while I acknowledge the 
inconvenience such checks would have caused Mr W, Im satisfied it was unavoidable here 
 and Halifax acted fairly when it did intervene, given the risk factors that were evident. 
The main driver behind the complaint, as I see it, is not so much that the bank carried out 
checks  but has more to do with the number of calls and length of time overall it took Mr W 
to complete his transfers as a result of them. Theres no doubt Mr W spent hours across two 
days either waiting to speak to Halifax or actually speaking to an agent. Halifax has also 
acknowledged some long wait times and said that it shouldnt have taken that many calls to 
sort things out. The transfers werent urgent, going by the reason Mr W gave Halifax, and I 
havent seen any evidence the delay in completing them caused a financial loss. But Ive 
factored in the frustration and time wasted due to the long waits he experienced to speak to 
an agent, when thinking about fair compensation overall. Those were unreasonable, 
particularly given the nature of the helpline he was attempting to contact.It was unfortunate that Mr W wasnt able to complete his remaining transfers without needing 
to call again, but the system operates automatically to flag potential risks  and it wouldnt be 
possible (or advisable) to turn off that monitoring, even briefly. His circumstances could also 
have changed in the time since the first round of questioning, though in hindsight that seems 
unlikely. So, while I understand Mr Ws frustration at having to go through the process again, 
I dont think Halifax were at fault when it later screened another transaction. 
Turning to length of time spent talking to Halifax, having listened to all the calls, I find the 
bank pursued a reasonable line of questioning in the circumstances  and the length of the 
calls were necessary. Mr Ws reluctance to answer the questions would have made it look 
even more like he was at risk, and so further questioning was reasonable. Scammers 
commonly tell victims to lie to their bank or give them cover stories to use. Ive listened to 
many calls where a customer is being scammed, and they initially bore all the hallmarks. 
On some of the calls Mr W didnt have the required account information to complete the 
security checks. The fraud team understandably has a higher threshold of information 
needed for verification, given the circumstances in which they are contacted  and I dont 
think any of the questions asked were unreasonable. I appreciate Mr W had quite a few 
accounts with the bank, and cant be expected to have all those details to hand. But hed 
spoken to that team after the first transfer was stopped and so would have been on notice it 
might ask for one of the account numbers when he called the next day. 
An agent did at one point incorrectly tell Mr W he wouldnt need his account details when he 
was connected to the fraud team. I know that would have added to his frustration when that 
proved not to be the case  and Ive included that impact when thinking about the 
compensation offer. But, overall, Ive found that a considerable proportion of the time spent 
speaking to the agents, and the amount of calls needed, didnt result from errors on the 
banks part.
Mr W has a separate complaint that deals with the service received during the calls on the 
second day, particularly in relation to level of security he was put through. There is some 
overlap, as he spoke to the fraud team during a couple of them. But in this complaint Ive 
focussed on the process Mr W went through up until he was able to complete his transfers. 
There was some poor service  namely the long wait times to get through (and not being 
able to on the first evening), as well as the incorrect information given at one point about the 
details hed need for security. Halifax also didnt send the compensation amount to Mr W 
following his acceptance of the investigators view. While the failure to pay resulted in Mr W 
having to contact us to let us know and some frustration, that low level of additional impact 
hasnt greatly affected my thoughts on what fair compensation looks like. 
Taking into account our overall approach to awards for distress or inconvenience, and the 
amount of impact Halifaxs mistakes are responsible for here  I find the banks apology and 
offer of £95 is still reasonable in the circumstances. As thats not yet been paid, Im directing 
Halifax to send that promptly (should Mr W accept) in settlement of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax), and direct the bank to pay him the £95 in compensation it previously offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2024.
 Ryan Miles
Ombudsman