DRN-4271059
The complaint
Mr G is a sole trader, trading as B. He complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus Bank is holding him liable for an unauthorised payment taken from his 
account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr G isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise  unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
The PSRs specify that authorisation depends on whether the payment transactions were 
authenticated correctly  and whether the account holder consented to them. Its accepted 
the disputed payment was properly authenticated.
The PSRs go on to state how consent is given. It must be in the form, and in accordance 
with the procedure, agreed between the payer and the payment service provider. In other 
words, Mr G consents if he completes the agreed steps to make a payment. Or if someone 
else acting on his behalf does so.
My understanding is that, to make this payment, the scammer first entered Mr Gs card 
details (such as the card number and CVV) on the website of the retailer the payment went 
to. Mr G was then sent a One Time Passcode (OTP) message from Cashplus. He was 
tricked into sharing this passcode with the scammer, who then entered it to complete the 
payment.
We dont know how the scammer got hold of Mr Gs card details. But based on his 
consistent testimony about the scam call, Im persuaded he didnt share them  as he 
mentions the caller already had his details, which contributed to his belief they were, as they 
claimed, from Cashplus. This is consistent with the pattern of many scams our service sees. 
I therefore think Mr Gs card details were stolen and used to initiate the payment. Although 
Mr G then shared the OTP with the scammer, he didnt enter it on the payment screen  nor 
did he complete any of the other steps (such as entering his card details) to make the 
payment. 
In sharing the code, I dont think Mr G was permitting the scammer to complete the steps to 
make the payment on his behalf. He didnt know the payment would be made; instead, he 
thought he was sharing the code with Cashplus in order to prevent a payment from being 
made, by confirming it was fraudulent.
I therefore consider the disputed payment to be unauthorised. And, having carefully 
considered the circumstances of how and why Mr G shared the OTP, I dont think his doing 
so amounted to him intentionally or grossly negligently failing to keep his personalised 
security credentials safe. 
Mr G received a call from someone purporting to be from Cashplus. He was persuaded it 
was actually his bank as they knew details such as his name, address, mobile number, work 
number and card number. I can therefore see why Mr G believed he was speaking to 
Cashplus. The information the caller had suggests this was a targeted scam against 
Cashplus customers. 
The caller told Mr G someone had tried to make two fraudulent transactions using his card. 
They said they had stopped the payments, but needed him to confirm they were fraudulent. 
To do this, they said they would send him messages about the payments  and he needed 
to share the codes they contained over the phone. Mr G did as instructed. The first payment 
didnt go through, seemingly due to there being insufficient funds in the account. But the 
second payment  for £1,084.15  was taken.
It seems clear Mr G didnt intentionally fail to keep his security credentials safe. He shared 
the code with who he thought was his bank, under the belief this would protect his account 
by confirming the attempted payments as fraudulent. 
While Cashplus has argued that it regularly sends its customers regular communications 
about fraud prevention, including that Cashplus wont ask for OTPs, I can see why this 
wasnt in Mr Gs mind at the time. This is bearing in mind that the scammer appears to have 
used social engineering to build trust with Mr G, as well as creating a sense of urgency. He 
was relieved Cashplus had prevented the fraud  and thought he needed to follow the 
callers instructions, as a matter of urgency, to secure his account. 
Although the OTP message said it was to verify a payment, setting out the amount and 
retailer, I can also see why  in the circumstances of the scam  Mr G didnt realise that, by 
sharing the code, he was breaching the account terms and compromising the security of his 
account. That code by itself wasnt enough to authorise a payment, and he didnt know his 
card details had been stolen. He had also been primed by the caller  who he believed to be 
from Cashplus, and who he thought was acting to protect him from a fraud risk  to expect 
the texts.
Cashplus said the OTP messages contained a warning not to share the code with anyone. 
But Mr G has provided the messages to show they didnt contain any such warning 
(although I understand Cashplus has more recently added a warning to its messages). 
In the context of Mr G thinking he was sharing the codes with his own bank, in relation to 
attempted fraudulent payments, I dont think his actions showed a very significant degree of 
careless which amounted to gross negligence. I dont think he identified, and overlooked, the 
scam risk. Instead, I think  in the circumstances and in the heat of the moment  he 
believed the caller. I think lots of other people would have done the same in those 
circumstances. Overall, Im satisfied the disputed payment was unauthorised. And Cashplus hasnt 
persuaded me that Mr Gs actions here amount to a failing of gross negligence. I therefore 
conclude that Cashplus is liable for the payment. To put things right, it should refund Mr Gs 
loss and pay interest on this to compensate him for the loss of use of the funds.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading 
as Cashplus Bank must refund the unauthorised transaction, less any amounts recovered or 
already refunded. 
It should also pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of the payment 
to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman