DRN-4146624
The complaint
Miss H complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) unfairly reported an adverse entry on her credit 
file simply due to her bank account being overdrawn by a few pounds.
What happened
Miss H says she held a Club styled bank account with Lloyds where a monthly fee is applied 
unless a minimum monthly payment is credited to the account. Miss H says she only used 
this bank account from time to time. 
Miss H says she learned in November 2022, that her credit file had a missed payment 
recorded on it and couldnt understand why. Miss H says when she spoke to Lloyds about 
this she was told this was due to her Club account going overdrawn by a few pounds 
following the application of a monthly £3 fee. Miss H says she complained at the time, but 
the member of Lloyds staff said her complaint wouldnt be upheld as it had done nothing 
wrong. 
Miss H says after some delay Lloyds finally sent her a response where Lloyds advised her it 
had sent her a letter at the time advising of the overdraft and it had done nothing wrong. 
Miss H says this letter wasnt received by her and she had no access to her banking app 
because her mobile phone was broken, so she wasnt able to view her account balance.  
Miss H feels Lloyds should apply some common sense and not ruin her credit rating simply 
because of a small overdraft and wants it to remove the missed payment marker from her 
credit file, which she has been working hard to maintain over the past six years. 
Lloyds says it wrote to Miss H in November 2022 advising her of the overdraft on her 
account, but her account wasnt corrected until mid-December 2022. Lloyds says as no error 
had been made it would not be correcting her credit file.
Miss H wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Lloyds had provided evidence that a letter had been sent to Miss H in 
November 2022 after having sent a text message in October 2022, when the account went 
overdrawn. The investigator felt it was Miss Hs responsibility to check her bank account 
balance and there would have been other means for Miss H to do that even if she hadnt 
access to her banking app via her mobile phone. 
The investigator felt Lloyds had a responsibility to correctly report Miss Hs bank account 
activity to the credit reference agencies and it had done that. The investigator pointed out as 
Lloyds hadnt made a mistake he couldnt tell Lloyds it must offer a goodwill gesture and 
remove the adverse entry from Miss Hs credit file. 
Miss H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would be upsetting for Miss H to learn her credit fie had been marked 
with a missed payment entry, simply because she missed a £3 monthly account fee taking 
her bank account overdrawn. 
As our investigator has explained, its not the role of this service to scrutinise Lloyds 
complaints process or to tell Lloyds how it should deal with complaints more widely. My role 
is to look at whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint, so 
when looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds acted reasonably when it advised the 
credit reference agencies of Miss Hs unauthorised overdraft.
Miss Hs complaint centres around the fact Lloyds acted unfairly when it reported her bank 
account to the credit reference agencies because shed missed the monthly account fee 
taking her account overdrawn by a few pounds. Miss H maintains she never received any 
notification of this from Lloyds, despite it saying it sent her a letter and additionally as her 
mobile phone wasnt working she was unable to gain access to her banking app. 
Miss H says if she had known, she would have corrected the issue and Lloyds knowing this 
should exercise some goodwill and remove the adverse entry on her credit file and in any 
event she cant understand how this has been marked as a missed payment. 
Its worth explaining Miss Hs Club account has a set monthly £3 charge unless a minimum 
monthly amount is paid into the account  this is something Miss H would have been aware 
of since the account opening in 2020 - so its reasonable to say she would have known a fee 
would have been due based on the past activity on the account. 
Here, Miss Hs account went into an unauthorised overdraft, albeit for a few pounds, on 4 
October 2022. Miss H maintains she was not aware of this, but Lloyds have provided 
evidence from its back-office records to show an SMS was sent to her registered mobile 
phone on 5 October 2022. In addition to this I have seen a letter addressed to Miss H dated 
4 November 2022 saying her account was £6 overdrawn, due to another monthly fee being 
applied, asking her to correct the situation. Lloyds have also provided evidence to show Miss 
Hs bank statements were added to her mailbox on her banking app. 
While I understand Miss H says she never received the letter Lloyds sent, I can see this was 
correctly addressed and I would expect a letter of this type to be sent this way, given its 
importance and I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the fact Miss H says it never arrived. 
Afterall it had also sent a text message to Miss H in October 2022 when her account initially 
went overdrawn. 
Although Miss H says her mobile phone wasnt available to her to log onto her bank account, 
there are other ways to access her bank account, by logging online via laptop computer, 
using telephone banking or visiting a branch. Miss H has by her own admission stated she 
doesnt check her bank statements and while that may be her choice I cant hold Lloyds 
responsible for that  after all it remains Miss Hs responsibility to maintain and regularly 
check her bank account. 
Miss H cant understand why Lloyds have registered a missed payment on her credit file and it has explained that is its process in these circumstances and thats not something I can ask 
them to change. All I can say is Lloyds do have a responsibility to accurately record bank 
account activity to the relevant agencies and unless it has made a mistake it would be unfair 
of me to tell them it must remove it or for me to tell Lloyds it must offer a gesture of goodwill - 
that is at its discretion. 
I do have some sympathy with Miss H and its worth mentioning she does have the option to 
contact the credit reference agencies to lodge a note of correction if she feels she wants to 
explain the circumstances here.
While Miss H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman