DRN-4427227
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of her claim, under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs S had an issue with her toilet. She made a claim under her policy she held with Aviva. It 
sent an engineer who found that there was a leak coming from a flush cone coming into the 
toilet. The engineer went to remove the flush pipe to replace the flush cone but found that 
the cistern began to move. So, he replaced the cistern and discovered that the bolts had 
corroded. 
Aviva advised Mrs S that the only way to fix the issue was to replace the entire toilet. This 
would be a chargeable repair, as it wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mrs S raised a complaint as she believed that Aviva ought to pay for the replacement toilet 
as she felt it was covered. 
In its final response, Aviva said that as the toilet required a new cistern, brackets, and pan, 
this would cost Mrs S £335 to replace. But this was subject to an engineers visit and the 
price it quoted, could increase.
As Mrs S was given her referral rights, she referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that the 
policy Mrs S held had an exclusion that stated that sanitary wear wasnt covered. So, Aviva 
were fair to advise Mrs S that she would need to pay for the toilet to be replaced. So, there 
was nothing further he could reasonably recommend Aviva to do. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mrs S did not. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs S, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. The main issue 
of this complaint is whether the Aviva handled Mrs S claim fairly. 
At the outset, I think its beneficial to review the policy terms and conditions, as well as any 
exclusions the policy had. As this is what both parties agreed to. 
Mrs S said that she was covered under the policy for any leaking pipes and seized taps. I 
have had a look at the policy and Mrs S is right, there is cover for those kinds of plumbing 
issues. But, in addition to the cover, there are also exclusions, which are part of the policy 
that Mrs S agreed to. 
One of the exclusions, relates to sanitary ware. In that, the replacement of sanitary ware 
such as a toilet, is not covered under the policy: 
What isnt Covered? replacement of sanitary ware (e.g. basins and toilet bowls);
The Aviva engineer advised that given the corrosion and the leak, the best and only way to 
repair the fault, was to replace the toilet in its entirety. From the above exclusion, I think its 
clear that a replacement toilet was not covered, under the policy. 
I havent been provided with any evidence from Mrs S that refutes the engineers advise and 
method of repair. And as our service considers that the engineer is an expert, without 
evidence that is contrary, Im unable to agree that Aviva is responsible, under the policy, to 
cover the cost of replacing the toilet. In addition, the policy doesnt cover for the replacement 
of sanitaryware. 
Taking all of the evidence into consideration, (and I can appreciate that this is likely to be a 
disappointment to Mrs S) I do think that Aviva has handled her claim fairly. I think that it 
came to the correct outcome, as it fairly relied upon the policy terms and exclusions. 
Consequently, I wont be able to ask Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman