DRN-2562888
The complaint
 Mr P complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled a claim he 
made on his home insurance for damage caused by subsidence.
Mr P has had a representative helping with case, but for ease Ive referred to all comments 
and actions as those of Mr P. 
What happened
In summer 2018 Mr P noticed cracks in his property. He contacted Lloyds who accepted the 
claim. It thought that nearby trees were causing the issue and after some monitoring  to see 
if a root barrier already installed had stabilised movement  it removed the trees around May 
2019. 
Lloyds monitored the property from March to July 2019. It was satisfied the property was 
stable and having reviewed the damage, it offered £20,000 for the repairs that needed to be 
carried out. It said it wouldnt be practical to do the repairs itself as the property required 
maintenance work that was unrelated to the subsidence damage. It also thought some of the 
internal damage had been caused by overloading in the loft which had resulted in structural 
issues. 
Mr P said Lloyds offer didnt account for the extensive damage the property had suffered. 
He said the subsidence had caused issues with the water and electricity supply to the house, 
meaning it was dangerous to live in. He wanted a full structural survey to be carried out to 
see what repairs were needed. Lloyds didnt agree to that so he brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator thought Lloyds should carry out a further investigation. He noted that new 
cracks seem to have appeared since Lloyds said the tress were removed, and he didnt think 
Lloyds had done enough monitoring to show the property was stable and ready to be 
repaired. He wasnt satisfied with Lloyds handling of the claim so far. 
Our investigator noted Lloyds had some concerns about the property, it said its contractors 
didnt want to attend as Mr P had several dogs on the property. So in order to move things 
forward, the investigator recommended Lloyds pay for an independent surveyor to visit the 
property to carry out a further inspection. He said it will also need to determine whether the 
movement has stopped since the monitoring took place. 
Our investigator said Lloyds should choose three surveyors that are not on its panel and 
provide Mr P with a choice as to who it will instruct. Our investigator said both Mr P and 
Lloyds should agree to be bound by the findings of that report. He also recommended Lloyds 
pay £300 compensation to Mr P for unnecessary trouble and upset it had caused by not 
responding to Mr Ps concerns when he first raised them.
Lloyds accepted the findings of our investigator. 
Mr P didnt accept what our investigator said. He was unhappy with Lloyds comments about 
the dogs, he said they were working dogs, and not dangerous. But said they would be 
removed from site for further visits. He raised concerns about Lloyds loss adjustors and said 
he found them rude and intimidating.
Mr P also said Lloyds comments about the state of his property were dishonest. He said 
hed been in the process of putting up new wallpaper and installing a new kitchen, as well as 
carrying out other updates on the house. He disputed any of the damage had been caused 
by general wear and tear or lack of maintenance. He also disputed Lloyds claims about the 
loft contents causing structural issues. 
Mr P didnt think £300 was enough to compensate for the living conditions hed had to put up 
with, which he said has had a damaged effect on his health. To resolve things he wants 
Lloyds to demolish the property and rebuild it. He said, as it was the councils trees that 
damaged his property, Lloyds should be able to claim any outlay back from the council. 
Since our investigators findings, Mr P has said hes appointed his own structural engineer. 
Lloyds has said it doesnt agree to that, as it doesnt consider the surveyor to be 
independent if appointed by Mr P. 
To date, this service hasnt received a report from Mr Ps structural engineer.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can see from Mr Ps correspondence that he and his family have been deeply affected by 
this claim. I want to reassure Mr P that Ive read all of the correspondence hes sent in, but 
my decision will only focus on what I consider to be the key points. 
Lloyds has accepted the findings of our investigator and has agreed to carry out a structural 
report on Mr Ps property. So Ill only briefly touch on the events that have happened so far.  
From reviewing the claim history I want to set out that I agree with Mr P that Lloyds hasnt 
handled this claim well. Im not satisfied that it carried out sufficient monitoring on his 
property after the trees were removed, as this was only done for three months. And Im not 
satisfied it responded appropriately when reports of further cracks were made. I agree with 
our investigator that Lloyds should have carried out further investigations. 
The main issue for me to consider is whether Lloyds carrying out a structural survey, to 
determine if the property is still moving, is sufficient to resolve the complaint at this stage. 
Mr P doesnt think it is, but having looked at everything, I think it is the best way to move the 
claim forward, Ill explain why below. 
Mr P considers Lloyds should now be paying for the demolition and rebuild of his property. 
He says Lloyds should be able to recover its costs from the council given its trees were the 
cause of the damage. 
When a claim is accepted on an insurance policy, the insurer has to carry out a lasting and 
effective repair. In subsidence cases, this can involve the removal of trees, such as has 
happened here. The property should then be monitored to confirm if its stable before any 
repair work is started. Completely demolishing and rebuilding Mr Ps property is an extreme 
measure and not one that would generally be necessary in order for an insurer to meet its 
obligations under the policy, irrespective of whoever may ultimately bear the cost of that. Ive 
reviewed the photographs and evidence submitted by Mr P, but this doesnt persuade me his 
property needs to be completely demolished and is beyond repair. At this stage, it seems further investigation is needed to determine the extent of the damage 
caused by subsidence. Lloyds agreeing to a full structural survey will determine what work (if 
any) needs to be done to stabilise Mr Ps home before any repairs can be carried out. It will 
also specifically identify which damage has been caused by subsidence and if there is 
damage caused by any other factors. So Im satisfied that this is a reasonable way to move 
forward. I appreciate Mr Ps concern at the length of time it has taken to get to this stage, but 
Lloyds cant carry out repairs if the property hasnt stabilised. And for the reasons given 
above Im not going to direct it to demolish and rebuild Mr Ps home.
Its clear from his correspondence that the relationship between Mr P and Lloyds has broken 
down. Mr P has said the loss adjuster was rude and intimidating. And Lloyds has said it 
didnt feel comfortable carrying out repairs owing to several dogs on Mr Ps property. 
I know the comments about the dogs have deeply upset Mr P, and hes confirmed that for 
any future appointments the dogs can be taken off sight, which is reasonable. In turn, Lloyds 
has agreed to provide three independent structural engineers not from its panel, to carry out 
the survey. Mr P can choose whichever of those three he feels most comfortable with. 
Lloyds has accepted it will be bound by the findings of that report. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable way to move the claim forward. 
Mr P has said £300 doesnt compensate for the poor conditions he and his family have had 
to live in whilst this has been ongoing. Hes said its had a detrimental impact on his health 
and wellbeing, and the house has been colder, so his bills have gone up. His increasing bills 
have meant he couldnt afford repairs to his car. 
Ive also considered that Mr P has told us he was carrying out some repairs and updates to 
his home, separate from the damage caused by the subsidence. So he accepts some work 
needed to be carried out. And at this stage, its not clear how much of the damage to his 
property has been caused by subsidence, and what repairs and updates hed have still 
needed to fund himself. So at this stage, I think £300 compensation is enough to recognise 
the poor service from Lloyds. 
Mr P has raised further issues with Lloyds handling, but I havent considered those here. Im 
aware Lloyds has responded to these under another complaint. We will consider Lloyds 
response to his complaint if Mr P decides to bring it to this service.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited needs to provide Mr P with a 
choice of three independent surveyors, not from its panel, to carry out a full report on Mr Ps 
property. It needs to be bound by the findings of that report.
It also needs to pay Mr P £300 compensation for unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman