DRN-2810109
The complaint
Mr G says Zurich didnt give him enough information when he bought his annuity. He had 
health conditions which he says Zurich was aware of but Zurich didnt inform him that he 
might be able to get a higher annuity, taking into account his health.
What happened
Mr G took out a personal pension plan with Zurich in August 1989. His selected retirement 
age (SRA) was 65. 
Mr G wrote to Zurich on 15 July 2010. He said hed recently appointed a firm Ill call Firm A 
to advise on his pension arrangements. He asked Zurich to accept his letter as authority with 
immediate effect to supply Firm A with all requested information concerning his pension 
arrangements with Zurich. 
On 21 July 2010 Firm A wrote to Zurich saying theyd been instructed to carry out a review of 
Mr Gs plan. They requested details of the plan term, the sums assured, the plan value and 
details of options to release all or part of the plan value and retain life assurance.  Zurich 
replied on 26 July 2010, enclosing information about the plan and a transfer pack, to be used 
if Mr G wanted to transfer benefits for investment with another provider. If he wanted to 
transfer benefits to another provider to exercise the Open Market Option (OMO) to take 
immediate retirement benefits, a retirement pack should be requested.
Annuity quotations were issued by Prudential on 28 July 2010. As explained below, at the 
time, Zurich also offered annuities through Prudential. Details of various options were given 
and a key features booklet was provided. Amongst other things, it explained that Mr G could 
buy an annuity from any provider using the OMO. That allowed Mr G to select an annuity 
provider that best met his personal circumstances. It added that annuity providers offered 
different rates and products and it was very unlikely that one provider could offer the best 
deal for everyone.
On 13 August 2020 Zurich received Mr Gs completed retirement claim form (dated 9 August 
2020). The front page of the form had partial written in by hand. On the form Mr G indicated 
that he wanted to take 25% of the plan value as tax free cash plus an annuity on a joint life 
basis, level, guaranteed for five years and payable monthly in arrears. 
On the same date Zurich received a letter from Mr G (also dated 9 August 2020). Mr G said 
he wouldnt be obtaining advice from the current (recently authorised) firm (Firm A). Any 
requests for further information or access to his personal records or policies by Firm A 
shouldnt be authorised. Mr G said hed be dealing direct with Zurich until further notice. 
On 19 August 2010 Zurich sent Mr G his 25% tax free cash and the remainder of the fund 
value to Prudential so it could set up Mr Gs annuity. 
In 2020 Mr G complained to Zurich. He was concerned that his health shouldve been taken 
into account when he bought his annuity in 2010.
Zurich didnt uphold his complaint. In its final response letter dated 16 January 2021 it said 
that customers could buy an annuity with Zurich but it also offered annuities through its 
chosen annuity provider.  At the time that was Prudential. Mr G also had the option to take 
his retirement benefits with another pension provider using the OMO. Zurich had never 
offered enhanced annuities and it had no control over the annuity rates Prudential offered. 
Zurich hadnt been able to offer advice since 2005.  As Prudential was offering higher 
annuity rates at the time, which meant that Mr Gs income would be higher, annuity 
quotations from Prudential were provided. Mr Gs options were explained, including the 
OMO, and that he could receive a higher income based on his personal circumstances.  
 
Mr G referred his complaint to us. He said his annuity had been mis sold. Zurich had said it 
didnt know about any health issues until 2012, after Mr Gs annuity had been set up. But he 
had income protection and a critical illness policy with Zurich and hed claimed in 1992 when 
he had a major heart attack. Zurich shouldve recommended a provider that wouldve given 
him an enhanced annuity, based on his medical conditions. Hes had multiple heart 
operations and ongoing health issues. Neither he nor his wife are working. Nor are his grown 
up children whove moved back home. He is struggling financially. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But she didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary she said, since 2005, Zurich hadnt provided advice. But Zurich was 
required to provide information, to allow Mr G to make an informed decision. That included 
details as to the types of annuities available and Mr Gs right to shop around or the OMO. 
The investigator said the retirement options pack sent to Mr G clearly set out the annuity 
options available with Zurichs chosen provider. And the quotes were sent with a key 
features document. On page 4 it set out that Mr G could purchase an annuity from any 
provider and explained the OMO. In signing the claim form (which itself mentioned the OMO) 
Mr G confirmed hed read and understood the key features document. 
The investigator recognised that the documentation didnt specifically mention enhanced 
annuities or that a higher income could be obtained based on an individuals health. The key 
features document, assuming Mr G received it, wasnt enough for him to make a fully 
informed choice. But it seemed hed had financial advice at the time. He was three years 
away from his SRA so the documentation hadnt been issued automatically but in response 
to a specific request. Zurich had received, on 21 July 2010, Mr Gs signed letter of authority 
saying hed appointed Firm A to advise him on his pension arrangements. And on the same 
day Zurich had received a letter from Firm A requesting information. The illustrations and 
quotations were produced on 28 July 2010 so it was clear theyd been sent in response to 
the request from Mr Gs advisers. 
The claim form returned to Zurich requested a partial annuity. A portion of Mr Gs pension 
fund remained with Zurich to retain the life cover benefit included with the policy. This, as 
well as the other options chosen, wasnt the most common way of taking an annuity and was 
something that was likely to have been discussed with an adviser. 
Mr Gs claim was dated 9 August 2010 and was sent with a letter confirming hed no longer 
be using Firm A for advice. It seemed hed discussed his options and taken advice from a 
financial adviser up to the point his claim form was sent to Zurich. Any advice as to his 
options wouldve come from his advisers.
Mr G had said Zurich shouldve told him about enhanced annuities because of his health 
conditions. But Zurich didnt offer that type of annuity and Mr G wouldve needed to look at 
the OMO which was mentioned in the documentation. Zurichs role was non advisory and it 
couldnt provide Mr G with details of his options with different providers or enhanced 
annuities  that was something for Mr G or his adviser to look into further. The documentation Zurich provided, may not, on its own, have given Mr G all the information 
he needed to make an informed decision. But he was using a financial adviser and so what 
Zurich had provided wasnt all the information he had. It wouldve been up to Mr Gs financial 
adviser to discuss his options in more detail and make a recommendation. As Zurich wasnt 
advising Mr G it wasnt up to Zurich to ensure Mr G chose the best annuity for him.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators view. In summary he said: 
The complaint should also be directed to Prudential. He referred to a press article 
and information on the regulators website about Prudential having to pay redress to 
customers who may have been entitled to an enhanced annuity. Prudential had said 
it would be writing to all affected customers by the end of October 2019 but Mr G 
hadnt been contacted. 
Zurich wouldve been paid commission for referrals to Prudential. That wouldve 
influenced Zurichs decision to stop providing financial advice. But a lay person would 
take, from the signposting customers to Prudential as a market leader, that as 
reassurance. Neither Zurich nor Prudential had highlighted that a customers state of 
health should be a key factor in annuity options. 
He was unable to recall any advice from the financial advisers or find any 
correspondence from them during the short period from 15 July 2010 to 9 August 
2010.
At the time Zurich had a wealth of information about his ill health  hed had a 
significant payout on his critical health policy with Zurich. Zurich had a duty of care to 
emphasise the need to obtain an annuity which fully took into account the customers 
health. Zurich or Prudential shouldve considered his health history and advised an 
enhanced annuity.
The investigator considered what Mr G had said. She said that, although Zurich provided 
annuity quotations from Prudential, Zurich wasnt providing advice but giving Mr G options to 
choose from. Mr G had an adviser who was responsible for providing advice. Although 
Zurich hadnt mentioned in its paperwork that Mr G may have been able to get an enhanced 
annuity based on health conditions from other providers, the OMO was explained and it 
would have been for Mr G or his advisers to look into annuities available elsewhere. As 
independent advice was taken, the onus was on the adviser to look into Mr Gs individual 
circumstances and make a recommendation, not just based on Mr Gs options available 
through Zurich or Prudential but elsewhere. 
Mr G queried whether he could lodge a new complaint about Prudential. We said hed need 
to contact Prudential first which Mr G did. Prudential referred him back to Zurich. Mr G said it 
seemed he was caught in a situation where both Prudential and Zurich were denying 
responsibility for not taking his history of serious ill health into account. We told Mr G that 
wed contact Prudential to see if it had anything to show that an adviser had been involved in 
Mr Gs annuity purchase. Prudential said it had nothing on its records to confirm that Mr G 
had used an adviser in connection with his annuity. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Gs health and financial problems. Id apologise that its taken us 
longer than wed have liked to reach this stage of our process  a final decision by an ombudsman. Im also sorry that I cant offer Mr G better news. Although Im able to provide 
Mr G with a final answer on his complaint, it isnt the outcome hes been hoping for.  
I can understand why Mr G is concerned hes missed out on an annuity that would have 
taken into account his health issues and paid him a larger income. But the fact that he may 
have lost out financially doesnt mean that his complaint must succeed. What I need to 
consider is if there have been any failings on Zurichs part and, if so, has that caused Mr G 
any financial loss. 
I can also see why Mr G considers Zurich shouldve told him that some annuity providers 
offered enhanced or impaired life annuities. Especially if, as Mr G says, Zurich knew (or 
shouldve known) that Mr G had health issues. 
But the position for consumers who are getting financial advice and those who arent isnt 
always the same. Here Mr G had told Zurich that he was getting advice from Firm A who got 
in touch with Zurich to request information about Mr Gs pension plan.
 
Further, Mr G was looking to take his benefits from the plan early  he was coming up to his 
62nd birthday at the time and his SRA was 65, so over three years away. It wasnt the case 
that his plan was maturing and Zurich needed to let Mr G know what his options were so that 
he could decide and tell Zurich what he wanted to do with the pension fund hed built up.
Here Mr Gs adviser was (ostensibly at least and as far as Zurich was aware) dealing with 
the matter on Mr Gs behalf. Where information, including immediate early retirement 
quotations, has been requested by an adviser, I dont think wed expect a provider to then 
supply full information about the OMO, including the availability of impaired life or enhanced 
annuities. Wed expect an adviser in 2010 to be fully familiar with enhanced annuities and to 
know their client. 
Before providing any advice or making recommendations, the adviser wouldve needed to 
have obtained full information about Mr G, including details of his financial position and his 
needs and objectives. That would also have entailed asking him questions about his health. 
And, if he was looking to purchase an annuity and it seemed he might qualify for an 
enhanced annuity, requesting quotations from providers who did offer such annuities.  
We dont know what, if any, advice Firm A gave Mr G. He cant recall. Although I tend to 
agree with what the investigator said about the type of annuity and the retention for 
continued life assurance suggesting that Mr G did have advice. It may be open to him, if he 
thinks Firm As advice and/or service was deficient, to complain to that firm. But, for the 
purposes of considering this complaint, we havent asked Firm A if it has retained any 
records. Thats because I dont see it would change the outcome of Mr Gs complaint about 
Zurich.  
If Firm A was able to produce a copy of its recommendation letter to Mr G that should 
indicate if an enhanced annuity had been discussed. If it was then that would show, even if 
Zurich didnt mention enhanced annuities, that Mr G wouldve known about them from his 
adviser. So, even if Zurich shouldve told Mr G that his health might be important but didnt, 
that omission wouldnt have caused Mr G any loss because hed have known about 
enhanced annuities anyway. 
But, even if Firm A didnt mention enhanced annuities, as Ive said, I dont think in Mr Gs 
particular circumstances and where it appeared that an adviser was in place, wed expect 
Zurich to provide full details of the OMO, including information about enhanced annuities. So 
wed still be unable to say that Zurich had done anything wrong, even if it seems that Mr Gs 
adviser hadnt mentioned enhanced annuities. Ive also considered what Mr G has said about having told Zurich on 9 August 2010 that he 
wouldnt be obtaining advice from Firm A and then, ten days later, the transfer of funds to 
Prudential was completed. I think Mr G may be suggesting that Zurich should have checked 
with him that hed made his decision (to take tax free cash and purchase an annuity with his 
residual fund, less what was retained to cover the life assurance benefit) on advice from his 
adviser. 
 
Unfortunately for Mr G I dont think the timing works in his favour. At the same time as he 
told Zurich that Firm A was no longer his adviser, he instructed Zurich to pay his tax free 
cash and pass the remaining fund to Prudential to set up his annuity. So, if Zurich had 
thought about it, it would have been reasonable for Zurich to have concluded that Mr G had 
retained the services of an adviser up to and until hed decided how to use his pension fund 
but, having decided on an annuity purchase - a one off, irreversible (subject to any cooling 
off period) decision  he had no further need for an adviser.  
The position might have been different if Mr G had told Zurich he no longer had an adviser in 
place before hed made his decision. But, as things stood, I dont think there was any reason 
why Zurich shouldve questioned it or sought confirmation from Mr G that hed had advice. 
As Ive mentioned, Prudential said, in response to an enquiry from our investigator, that its 
records didnt indicate that Mr G had used an adviser. But I think the point remains that, as 
far as Zurich understood, Mr G did have an adviser who was in place up to the point when 
Mr G notified Zurich as to what he wanted to do with his fund. 
Mr G may feel that neither Zurich nor Prudential is prepared to take responsibility for what 
happened. But, and as the investigator said, where theres an adviser in place  or at least it 
appears thats the case  wed expect the adviser to make the client fully aware of his 
options. 
As Mr G has pointed out, certain annuity providers, including Prudential, have been 
investigated by the regulator who found that annuities had been mis sold  for failing to 
make it clear that customers had the right to shop around for the best deal, rather than just 
buying an annuity from their existing provider. Providers may also be required, when 
explaining the OMO, to say that a consumer may get an impaired life or enhanced annuity 
for certain medical conditions or lifestyle choices.
But, as Ive explained, I dont think Zurich was required, given Mr Gs position, to provide all 
the information wed expect it to provide, typically when a pension plan is maturing and when 
the consumer doesnt have a financial adviser.
Mr G has said that even though his annuity is with Prudential it has never contacted him 
about any review. But, as the investigator explained, the review related to consumers whose 
pension fund was held with Prudential and who then went on to buy an annuity with 
Prudential. And, as Ive said, Mr Gs position was that he was looking to take his benefits 
from his pension plan with Zurich and he had an adviser helping him with that. 
Taking all that into account, and despite my sympathy for Mr G, Im unable to uphold his 
complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint and Im not making any award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman