DRN-3948709
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Platinum 
account in October 2021.
Mr W has given a number of reasons why he says it was mis-sold. These include:
I didnt know I was paying and dont remember ever agreeing to having this account,
I was upgraded without my knowledge,
I was told I had to get the account in order to take out a loan / overdraft / mortgage,
I was told I wouldnt be eligible for Lloyds fee-free accounts and had to get one,
I wasnt told there was an alternative, free account,
I was told I would be eligible for travel insurance but later found out I wasnt,
I wasnt told I wouldnt be eligible for one or more of the insurance policies, and
I tried to cancel my account but was forced into keeping it.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that the account had been 
mis-sold.
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators assessments, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
Mr W had a number of other packaged accounts prior to October 2021  which Lloyds 
addressed in its final response letter. But Mr W has confirmed he only wants our service to 
address the Platinum account sold in October 2021, so I wont be addressing any of the 
other accounts in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the Platinum account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Firstly, I note that some of the reasons why Mr W says that the account was mis-sold directly 
contradict each other. For example, he says he was unaware he even had the packaged 
account and didnt agree to it, yet also says he was told he had to get the account to obtain 
credit and was told he would be eligible for travel insurance. So from the outset, I have to 
say I dont find Mr Ws testimony to be particularly plausible.
Nevertheless, I have considered whether Mr W was given a fair choice. 
Lloyds has provided evidence that shows the account was upgraded by Mr W online. And I 
note that Mr W said in his initial complaint to Lloyds that hed upgraded his account online. 
Therefore, I think that Mr W did agree to upgrade his account, and that he upgraded it 
himself. So I cant reasonably say that Lloyds had upgraded it without his consent.
Mr W says that he wasnt made aware that fee-free alternatives were available to him and he 
says he was told he wasnt eligible for a fee-free account. But Mr W had a fee-free account 
at the time he upgraded his account  and hed held fee-free accounts a number of times in 
the past  so he was clearly aware that fee-free accounts were available to him.
Mr W has also said that he was told he had to upgrade to obtain a loan / overdraft / 
mortgage. However, as Mr W upgraded his account himself online i.e. without the input from 
a Lloyds member of staff, I dont find that to be plausible. I also note that Mr W didnt apply 
for any credit after upgrading his account, and I can see that hed had overdrafts on his 
account in the past when it was a fee-free account  so I think he was aware that he didnt 
need the Platinum account to be able to obtain credit.
So taking everything into account I think that Mr W was given a fair choice when he 
upgraded his account to a Platinum account online.
As Mr W upgraded the account himself online, this means it was sold on a non-advised 
basis. This means that Lloyds was not required to check whether it was right for Mr Ws 
circumstances. However, Lloyds was required to provide important information about the 
account, so that Mr W could decide this for himself.
Unfortunately, Lloyds has not provided our service with a copy of the application screens 
that Mr W wouldve seen when he applied for the account online. However, Mr W has 
provided a screen shot of what Lloyds website says about the account. And I have had a 
look at an archived copy of Lloyds website as it was in October 2021, to gain an 
understanding of what Mr W was likely to have seen when he applied for the account.
Firstly, I note that it is made quite clear that it cost £21 per month and included benefits such 
as worldwide family travel insurance, breakdown cover and card loss assistance. It also 
provided 15% cash back as well. Therefore, I think Mr W was provided with enough 
information so that he had a good appreciate of what was included with the account, and 
how much it cost, when he applied to upgrade.   
Mr W says that he was told he was eligible for the travel insurance but later found out he 
wasnt. He also says that he wasnt told he would be ineligible for the other benefits. 
Unfortunately, Mr W hasnt elaborated on what exactly he means by this. But, as far as I can 
see, he was eligible for all of the benefits. I appreciate that Mr W has some medical 
conditions, and those conditions may affect the scope of cover provided by the travel 
insurance. 
However, not being covered for a medical condition does not mean he was ineligible for the 
travel insurance - it just means he would be covered for everything other than a claim that is 
linked to that condition. And whether he was or wasnt covered for those conditions, I can 
see that it was made clear in the documentation provided about the account that if Mr W had 
any medical conditions, he would need to contact the insurer to check whether they would 
be covered. So I think Lloyds did what it needed to do in terms of making Mr W aware of 
this. Of course, if the insurer chose not to then cover any existing medical conditions, I cant 
reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for that.
As such, having considered everything, Im unable to say that the account was mis-sold. On 
the contrary it seems that Mr W freely chose to upgrade his account online. And although Mr 
W may not have been able to make use of some of the benefits  such as breakdown cover  it was made clear from the outset that the Platinum account included that cover. So I dont 
think it would be reasonable to say that Lloyds has done something wrong because Mr W 
chose to take out a financial product that included benefits that he knew he was unable to 
make use of.
Finally, Mr W says that he tried to downgrade his account but was forced to keep it. 
Unfortunately, there is no evidence of this. Mr W only had the account for four months, and 
he downgraded the account himself online  which he was able to do at any time. Therefore, 
Ive seen nothing that wouldve prevented him from downgrading the account online sooner 
than he did, if he didnt want the account or had changed his mind after applying for it.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to conclude that the Platinum account was 
mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman