DRN-3421591
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Legal & General Home Finance Limited (Legal & General) failed in its 
duty of care to her when it allowed a further draw down of funds from her lifetime mortgage. 
She is represented in this matter by a family member  Mrs M.
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs L took out a lifetime mortgage with Legal & General following advice 
from a broker. They drew down an initial sum of £35,000.
In 2017, a further draw down was taken of £20,000 which is the subject of this complaint. 
Mrs M says that this was taken without Mrs Ls knowledge or consent and that Legal & 
General failed in its duty of care to her in allowing this to happen. 
Sadly, Mr L passed away in June 2020 and Mrs M has said that this is when they became 
aware of the further draw down being taken.
Mrs M says the money was paid into a joint account but was moved shortly afterwards to 
Mr Ls sole account. Mrs M complained to Legal & General. It investigated the matter but 
didnt uphold the complaint, so the matter was referred to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but ultimately didnt think it should be upheld. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs M asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I can appreciate Mrs Ms comments that this has had an impact on the whole family, 
its important to note that this is Mrs Ls complaint. She is Legal & Generals customer and 
so Ill be considering the impact on her in this decision and deciding whether I think Legal & 
General treated her unfairly. But thats not to say that I havent taken account of the wider 
situation and I do understand that this matter must have been distressing and upsetting for 
the whole family.
Its also important to note that the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider complaints 
about the actions of financial services businesses  but we cant consider complaints about 
the actions of third parties. And so, its not for me to say that Mr L committed fraud or not. 
What I can consider is Legal & Generals part in the matter and what checks it did before 
allowing the further advance, and whether it should pay Mrs L compensation or take any 
other appropriate steps to settle this complaint. 
This mortgage was sold through a broker. This meant that Legal & General, as the lender, 
had little direct contact with the applicants. It was the broker who was in touch with the 
applicants and responsible for gathering various information. It was also the broker that 
would have been responsible for explaining the features of the mortgage and the facility for 
further drawdowns. 
The original sale is not in dispute, nor is it in dispute that Mrs L knew they took out a lifetime 
mortgage. She agreed to this and the features of the product  including the facility for 
further drawdowns. Ive seen the documents from the time which I consider makes it clear 
that further drawdowns were available. And the broker should have also explained this. 
What is in dispute here is whether Legal & General should have allowed the further 
drawdown in 2017. Legal & Generals records indicate that the request for these funds was 
made through the broker but has said its policy is to speak to both customers and identify 
and verify them separately and confirm the reason and purpose for the funds. 
Ive listened to the call in which the further drawdown was discussed. Mrs L answers the 
phone and the representative explains that they are calling from Legal & General. She 
passes the phone to Mr L and Legal & General asked Mr L to confirm that it is on 
speakerphone and then asked both to confirm their names and date of births. Mrs L does 
this. 
When Mr L asked why it was necessary to speak to both of them - the adviser explained that 
otherwise she would need to speak to them both separately. Legal & General stated again 
that it needed both parties to be listening and asked if Mrs L was listening  to which she 
replied she was. 
Whilst Ive carefully considered what Mrs M has said about this conversation, Im afraid I 
dont see any particular reason why Legal & General should have been alerted to the 
possibility that this further lending was taken without Mrs Ls consent. I say this as Mrs L 
knew that it was Legal & General calling and I consider its likely she knew that this was in 
relation to the lifetime mortgage. 
Mrs L confirms that she is listening when Legal & General discuss the drawdown and so - 
whilst I accept that she may not have known the exact details (as Mrs M says) I think its 
likely that, as she was a party to the call, she was aware that it was in relation to the further 
advance. And Ive kept in mind that its usual for one party in a marriage to take the lead in 
financial affairs as it appears Mr L was. I dont consider that there was anything from this 
conversation that would have caused Legal & General to question the consent of the 
drawdown. 
Ive also noted that the drawdown offer in principle was sent to both Mr and Mrs L. It might 
be the case that Mrs L didnt see this letter. But again, I dont think I can fairly hold Legal & 
General responsible for this. 
Legal & General has not been able to provide a copy of the signed drawdown acceptance 
form. Mrs M has said Mrs L did not sign this and that this lack of proof shows that Legal & 
Generals process is flawed. Its unfortunate that this document is not available, but I dont 
think that this alone means that Legal & General failed in its duty of care to Mrs L. As Ive set 
out, following the request for the drawdown from the broker it contacted both parties by 
telephone and sent the drawdown offer in principle to both Mr and Mrs L. 
Ive also noted that the funds were sent to a joint bank account and, although I have no 
reason to doubt what Mrs M has said about these later being diverted, I dont think I can 
fairly hold Legal & General accountable for this. 
I also need to bear in mind that even if Mrs L didnt know about or consent to the drawdown, 
theres no doubt that Mr L did know about it and did receive the money. The borrowing was 
secured against the property which he owned jointly with Mrs L at the time, and which has now passed to Mrs L. And so, it would be reasonable for Legal & General to recover the debt 
from Mr L or his estate. That means that even if I were to find that Mrs L couldnt fairly be 
held responsible for the borrowing, Legal & General would still be entitled to recover it from 
her via Mr Ls share of the property which has now passed to her. So ultimately, whether the 
2017 drawdown was taken by Mr L alone or by both of them together, the outcome would be 
the same  that Legal & General is entitled to recover the borrowing via the security over the 
property. 
Further, Ive considered what Legal & General did after Mrs M got in touch to report the 
matter and Im satisfied that it investigated appropriately. It referred the case to a specialist 
team for investigation and reviewed the information and phone calls. It concluded that this 
was a domestic matter. From the information Ive seen, I think it dealt with the matter 
seriously and conducted a reasonable investigation into the allegation. 
Whilst I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs L and I dont 
underestimate how difficult this situation has been, having considered everything I dont think 
that Legal & General treated her unfairly and so I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman