DRN-2921607
The complaint
Mr O complains that he was mis-sold a Premier Life Account (PLA) by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) in September 2009, and then not told about substantial changes to the 
account in 2017.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator.
Mr O says that he took out the PLA because he was told by Barclays that he had to in order 
to get an overdraft.
While I dont doubt Mr Os honest recollections, the sale took place over 10 years ago and I 
believe his memory is mistaken. I say this because Barclays has provided evidence that Mr 
O took out a fee free account with it in February 2009, and then Mr O successfully applied 
for an overdraft of £1000 with the fee free account in April 2009, five months before he took 
out the PLA. The overdraft limit of £1000 remained the same when Mr O took out the PLA in 
September 2009 and did not change in the years that followed.
So, I think it is more likely than not that Mr O knew that fee free accounts with overdrafts 
were available, and he chose to take out the PLA based on the information Barclays gave 
him about its costs and benefits.
The PLA benefits included travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, car breakdown service, 
home SOS cover, extended warranty on purchase, gadget cover and a £1000 interest free 
overdraft. It cost £25 a month.
I think its more likely than not that Barclays sold the PLA to Mr O on a non-advised basis. I 
say this because Ive not seen any record of any suitability checks, and this service is aware 
that Barclays process at the time for selling in face to face meetings was to provide 
information only.
This means that the only requirement on Barclays was to give Mr O enough information for 
him to make an informed choice.
And I think it did. I say this because after the sale Mr O registered some several mobile 
phones for the insurance cover. And he immediately made substantial savings on the 
overdraft he was running as it became interest free under the PLA. He also couldve 
downgraded or closed the account any month, but he didnt and kept it for many years.
I agree with our adjudicator that when the account was changed in 2017, Mr O was sent 
multiple letters about it, and these were correctly addressed. So, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr O was aware the account was changing and couldve acted to amend or close it 
if he wished.
So, in my view, I think its more likely than not that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in the 
sale or change to Mr Os account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman