DRN-3936026
The complaint
Ms T complains about the level of service provided by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) when 
she made a claim on her roadside assistance motor insurance policy. She wants 
compensation and reimbursement for her expenses.
 
What happened
Ms Ts car broke down and she called UKI for assistance. UKI initially declined the claim as 
Ms T didnt have a valid MOT, but it then waived this. It then offered to recover Ms T for 10 
miles after which she would have to pay 540 euros to recover her car to her home address. 
Ms T declined this and arranged her own recovery. UKI thought it could have communicated 
better with Ms T at the time and it offered her £75 compensation. But Ms T thought UKI had 
mis-sold her the policy. 
our Investigators view
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ms T 
had bought her policy online and it was non-advised. He thought UKI had acted within the 
policys terms and conditions by firstly declining cover because of the lack of a valid MOT 
and then because of the recovery limit in Ms Ts policy. He thought UKI had applied the 
policys terms fairly and reasonably and it was Ms Ts decision to decline the offer of 
recovery. 
Ms T replied that she had never bought a policy online. She said she had added breakdown 
cover in a call to UKI. Ms T also said she hadnt been offered assistance to get her children 
and herself home. She thought the policy provided this. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms T 
and to UKI on 3 January 2023. I summarise my findings:
Ms T told us she had a very upsetting and stressful experience when her car broke down on 
a busy motorway, leaving her and her four children scared. I was sorry to hear about this.  
Ms T said she had to pay for a mechanic to provide her with a courtesy car and then recover 
her car to her home address. She said she didnt receive from UKI the service she expected, 
and that she thought was provided by her policy. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
In its response to Ms Ts complaint. UKI said it should have declined recovery because her 
car didnt have a valid MOT at the time of the breakdown. I looked at Ms Ts policy booklet 
and on page 9 it says:
In all cases, the vehicle's got to meet these criteria;
It meets any legal requirements and driving laws that apply, including having valid tax, 
insurance and an MOT. We can check these details when you ask us for help.
UKI checked Ms Ts cars records and noted that she didnt have a valid MOT. So I would 
usually agree that refusing recovery for this reason was in keeping with the policys terms 
and conditions. But Ms T explained that this requirement had been waived by the police due 
to a backlog caused by the pandemic so long as the car was roadworthy and was booked in 
for an MOT. And she had a booking for an MOT two months later.  
After some debate with the recovery agents, UKIs underwriters said that Ms T was covered 
despite not having a current MOT, in keeping with then current government guidance. And I 
could see that this was in keeping with police and insurance industry advice at the time. 
UKIs underwriters provided evidence of this to the recovery agent. 
So I couldnt say that UKI should have declined Ms Ts recovery for this reason. And I 
thought UKI was wrong, when Ms T complained, to use this as a reason for not providing 
cover. But this didnt change the outcome in any case as UKI didnt then recover Ms Ts car. 
Ms T said UKIs agent then declined recovery because Ms T wasnt within ten miles of her 
home address. She said this was later confirmed by UKI as her policy entitlement. Ms T said 
the agent offered to collect her car for 540 euros but wouldnt recover Ms T or her children or 
attempt a roadside repair. Ms T then made her own recovery arrangements. 
But I didnt think Ms Ts recall was quite correct. This was because the agent told Ms T that 
her policy provided a ten mile recovery free of charge and anything over that would be 
chargeable. And on page 11 of the policy booklet, it says:
Local recovery
If we come out to your vehicle but can't get it going, we'll take you, your vehicle, and your 
passengers to one of our repairers, no matter how far away that is. If you prefer we can take 
you to a single destination somewhere else, as long as it's 10 miles or less from where the 
breakdown happened, or no further away than the repairer we've recommended.
Ms T discussed the breakdown with UKIs agent, and he said roadside repair wouldnt be 
possible and that her car would have to be recovered. Ms T told us that the problem was due 
to a broken fanbelt and this could have been repaired at the roadside. But were not 
engineers, and so I couldnt say that UKI should have done this. I couldnt say that its 
experienced call handler was wrong in saying that recovery was the only option. And, 
because the recovery was for more than ten miles, I think the agent correctly said that Ms T 
would have to pay for the further mileage in keeping with her policys terms and conditions.  
Ms T thought the location of her breakdown affected UKIs decision. But I couldnt see that 
this affected its decision at all. 
Ms T recalled that when she first bought the breakdown cover it was over the phone. She 
recalled some very different terms were explained to her. I thought, from her description, that 
she thought she was covered for recovery as long as she was 10 miles or more away from 
her home. 
We asked UKI for the sales calls when Ms T made and renewed her policies. After some 
confusion about the sales process, UKI agreed that Ms T had applied for her policy online, 
but that she had finalised the purchase in a call. UKI said it only retains calls for three years, 
so these arent available from when Ms T first took out her policy and bought breakdown 
cover. The policy auto renewed after this date and UKI said no calls were made. 
So I wasnt able to listen to the sales call when Ms T added breakdown cover. Ms T provided 
evidence of calls she made to renew her policies. But I couldnt see that UKI retained these. 
In any case, Ms T hadnt said that she discussed her breakdown cover in these calls. So I 
didnt think they would be relevant. 
Ms T received her policy documents. And I could see that they specified her level of 
breakdown cover and I thought it was for Ms T to review these and decide whether or not 
they met her needs. So I couldnt reasonably say that the policy was mis-sold. 
Ms T said shed been told that UKI keeps calls for seven years. But I was satisfied that this 
was incorrect as I saw UKIs policy on call retention and Ive also seen other cases where 
calls are kept for only three years. Retention times are UKIs commercial decision, so this wasnt something I could comment on. If Ms T thinks she was provided with incorrect 
information, then UKI said she should complain to it first to give it a chance to respond. 
Ms T was unhappy that UKI didnt offer to recover herself and her children. But I couldnt see 
that this was provided by her policy. It provides recovery to a garage if repairs can be made. 
But this wasnt the case and so Ms T would have had to arrange her own recovery in any 
case. 
UKI offered Ms T £75 compensation because she had spent longer on the phone to its 
agents than she should have done. Ms T had to wait for two hours at the roadside to get a 
decision from UKI. I thought its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance for service problems with this level of impact. 
But UKI had also made errors in handling Ms Ts claim. It wrongly said that it shouldnt have 
offered to cover Ms T at all because of the lack of a current MOT. It wrongly said Ms T had 
bought her policy online. I thought these errors caused Ms T avoidable frustration and upset. 
I thought UKI should pay Ms T £100 further compensation for this as thats in keeping with 
our published guidance for when repeated errors are made. 
Subject to any further representations by Ms T or UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to require U K Insurance Limited to pay 
Ms T £100 further compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI replied that it thought its offer of £75 compensation for the initial delay in the claim was 
reasonable. And it said theres no evidence that the policy hadnt been mis-sold. And, as Ive 
explained above, I agree with UKI on these two points. 
But I also think that UKI caused Ms T avoidable frustration and stress by later wrongly telling 
her that it shouldnt have provided cover due to the lack of an MOT and that Ms T had 
bought her policy online. And I am still satisfied that it should pay Ms T an additional £100 
compensation for this. 
Ms T replied reiterating many of her concerns, but she hasnt provided any additional 
evidence for me to consider. I can understand the strength of Ms Ts feelings about the 
service she received on this occasion. I have no doubt that the breakdown on a busy 
motorway must have been a stressful and upsetting experience. Fortunately, Ms T was able 
to steer her car into the entrance of a petrol station so that she and her children were out of 
danger. 
Ms T said she wanted her recovery expenses reimbursed. But, as Ive explained above, Im 
satisfied that UKI provided a service in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And 
as it didnt do anything wrong in this, I cant require it to refund these costs. 
Ms T wanted UKI held accountable for leaving her and her children on the roadside. But its 
not our role to punish businesses. Our role is to consider the specific complaints of 
consumers, how a business has responded to them and the impact its errors have had. 
Ms T thought UKI should have attempted to repair her car and, if this wasnt possible, then 
recovered her to a garage. But, as Ive explained, its for UKI to decide whether a roadside 
repair is likely to be successful. UKIs agent explained to Ms T that if the car couldnt be 
repaired at the roadside, then it would be recovered to a garage. He then spoke with the 
roadside recovery company, and it was agreed that Ms T was covered by her policy. 
But the recovery agent decided that recovery was the only option and the car would then be 
repaired the following morning. Local recovery wasnt then discussed, just the recovery to Ms Ts home address. Ms T said her garage could do this more cheaply than UKIs agent 
and ended the call. I can understand that this must have been a stressful situation. But I 
cant say that Ms T asked for local recovery at the time, instead she arranged her own 
recovery.
Ms T reiterated that she had been told that UKI kept its calls for seven years. I dont doubt 
her account. But, as Ive explained above, this was incorrect as UKIs policy states that it 
retains them for only three years. UKI has said that if Ms T remains concerned that she was 
given incorrect information then she should raise a further complaint with it. 
Ms T said she hasnt received the £75 compensation offered by UKI. I think its for Ms T to 
decide whether or not she accepts this offer along with the £100 further compensation that I 
have awarded. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms T £100 further compensation (£175 in total) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman