DRN-2445262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about a whole of life insurance policy sold to them in 1991 by 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited trading as Sanlam Wealth.
Mr and Mrs P are being represented in their complaint by a Claims Management Company. 
For ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr and Mrs P.
What happened
After speaking to a representative of Sanlam in 1991 Mr and Mrs P took out a whole of life 
policy with a sum assured of £200,000. The policy continued until 2004 when it was 
surrendered by Mr and Mrs P who were paid the cash value.
In early 2020 Mr and Mrs P complained to Sanlam saying the policy had been mis-sold as it 
was unsuitable for them at the time. They said that Sanlam didnt check their attitude to risk, 
it wasnt clear how the sum assured had been calculated, and that the reviewable nature of 
the policy made it unsuitable for inheritance tax planning. Sanlam looked into the sale but 
didnt uphold the complaint saying the policy was suitable and that information was provided 
showing how the policy worked. Mr and Mrs P disagreed so brought their complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They looked at information from the 
time of the sale including the application form, the brochure and the client factfile. Having 
done so they thought the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs P, and that they were given 
clear information about the policy and how it worked. Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy so 
the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the policy took place in 1991. At that time regulations around the sale of this type 
of policy were different to today. Whilst the advisor still had a duty to give suitable advice 
record keeping was different.
Ive looked at the available documentation from the time when coming to a decision. Of 
course I can never know what was said, or not said, when Mr and Mrs P were talking with 
the advisor, so Ive come to a decision on what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs P make three points about why they feel the policy wasnt suitable.
They werent asked about their attitude to risk
At the time of the sale there was no requirement for the advisor to record Mr and Mrs Ps 
attitude to risk, but advisors were expected to consider which level of risk consumers could 
take. So its not surprising that this isnt recorded. The advisor did have a duty to give 
suitable advice and looking at the documentation Im persuaded they did this.  
The funds were invested in the default managed fund. While there is a risk with any 
investment this fund is used by ordinary investors and has a spread of investments across 
equities, property interests and government securities. I havent seen any evidence that the 
funds were invested in anything high risk. Ive also taken into consideration the 
documentation from the time that Mr and Mrs P signed, and the information they were given 
which explains how the funds were to be invested and that the investment could go up or it 
could go down. 
The evidence shows the fund was discussed and agreed with Mr and Mrs P. The reason for 
the investment fund is to build up a fund in order to support the premiums in the future. 
Effectively this allows the policy to be maintained by the premiums for longer despite the 
cost of life cover going up. Taking all this into account, it appears this was suitable for the 
needs of Mr and Mrs P at the time.
Its not clear how the sum assured of £200,000 was calculated
The factfile from the time of the sale shows that Mr and Mrs Ps financial situation was 
discussed with questions asked around income, assets, savings, and investments. The 
factfile also shows that inheritance tax planning was one of Mr and Mrs Ps requirements 
which is why the policy was written in trust for their children.  
I cant say for certain why the amount of £200,000 was chosen; and given the passage of 
time and available documentation this isnt surprising. At the time Mr and Mrs P were 
earning a relatively high amount of income. Having no mortgage left space for other assets 
to grow in the future, and the amount doesnt seem unreasonable considering their 
circumstances. Im satisfied that the amount of cover was discussed and agreed by 
Mr and Mrs P.
I also note that the review letters sent to Mr and Mrs P in 1996 and 2001 show the sum 
assured as £200,000. Had this amount not been suitable it couldve been changed, but I 
cant see that it was. So I think its reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs P were happy with that 
amount of cover.
 
The policy had the potential for limitless premium increases
The policy did have the potential for increases in premiums based on several factors 
including fund performance. How high the premiums might have gone is impossible to say 
as the policy was cancelled in 2004. 
The way is the policy works is to provide as much life cover as possible for as little cost as 
possible. This type of policy has the potential to do this because of the investment element, 
and as it was written into trust it wouldve satisfied Mr and Mrs Ps need for inheritance tax 
planning.
Whilst I can understand why there might have been a concern about the increases theres 
no evidence that any increases affected Mr and Mrs P. It appears to be a hypothetical 
concern about something that didnt come to pass. I also note that when the policy was 
cancelled in 2004 it was because Mr and Mrs P say they needed the funds and it wasnt due 
to any premium increases.
Having carefully considered everything, including the three points raised by Mr and Mrs P, 
and the sale of the policy as a whole, Im satisfied it was suitable and wasnt mis-sold.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman