DRN-2581167
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Nationwide Building Society has refused her claim brought under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She wants a refund.
What happened
Mrs K tell us that in October 2018 she agreed to have a new bathroom supplied and installed 
by a company Ill refer to as B. She explains that the cost was financed by a deposit paid 
by her Nationwide credit card (£1006.85), with the balance of around a further £9,000 being 
funded through another lender, a company Ill call H. The payments made on the 
Nationwide credit card consisted of two amounts £923.75 and £83.10. She states that the 
installation work was of poor quality and that an independent inspection arranged by H had 
confirmed this. She further explained that H has refunded her the full amount of the finance 
agreement it had provided. But she says that Nationwide has refused to provide her with any 
refund of her deposit.
Nationwide told us that it didnt accept there had been any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation of the goods supplied. Nor was it satisfied that the payments made on its 
credit card had funded the installation of the goods.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 January 2021. I said that I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. I said that I didnt find that Mrs K had experienced any 
financial loss for which she hadnt already been compensated.
Since my provisional decision was issued, Ive not received any replies from either party. As 
no new information has been provided, I see no reason to change my provisional decision 
which is largely repeated in my final decision set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs K would be disappointed that the new bathroom she paid for wasnt up 
to the quality shed expected once it had been installed.
In summary, her complaint is that due to poor workmanship the bathroom failed to meet the 
required standards of being of satisfactory quality and fitted with reasonable care and skill.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ks complaint. I have to 
take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods and / or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the relevant supplier. And the single item price of 
goods must be more than £100 but less than £30,000.
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract services must be performed with 
reasonable care and skill. And that goods must be of satisfactory quality.
Ive examined various documents including the order form and invoices. These show the 
cost was broken down into two elements. The cost of goods was £2,978.62 and the 
installation costs were £7,089.92, a total of £10,068.54. Significantly, the payment of 
£923.75 made by Nationwide credit card was specifically stated on the invoice to apply to 
goods.
When Mrs K complained to H, it arranged for an independent inspection of the works. 
Following that inspection, H agreed that Mrs K should be refunded the full amount of her 
finance agreement with it of over £9,000.
The manner in which the works were funded has added to the complexity of the situation. Its 
clear that the loan financed by H overlapped both the supply of goods and installation 
services. Less clear is whether or not the payments made by Nationwide credit card do 
likewise.
Where information is unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Looking at things in the round, Ive reached the conclusion that there were probably at least 
two separate contracts in existence. One for the supply of goods and the other for the supply 
of installation services. Its clear from the order form and invoices from B, that the supply of 
goods and installation are separate elements which B offered independently of each other. 
In other words, a customer could buy just goods or could source the goods elsewhere and 
arrange with B to install them. Or, as Mrs K did, order goods and installation services from B
Its probable that the £923.75 payment went solely towards the goods  as that is what is 
stated on the invoice. The separate payment of £83.10 is below the single item price to 
which Section 75 applies. But even if it was treated as part of one payment of £1,006.85 it 
wouldnt affect the outcome.
Im not aware that complaint is made about the quality of goods supplied rather than the 
manner in which they were fitted. And I cant see that any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation has occurred in relation to the supply of goods.
As it happens, this conclusion doesnt alter my view on how this complaint should be 
resolved. And Id have reached the same outcome even if Id believed the supply of goods 
and services was part of the one contract. For completeness, Ill explain why.The total contract price agreed by Mrs K for the supply of goods and installation was 
£10,068.54. Shes had a refund of all her costs other than the £1,006.85 deposit.
The remedy for breach of contract is to put right the issues which led to the breach and to 
perform the contract. Or to restore the consumer to as near the same position as if the 
contract hadnt been made. This would usually involve the consumer returning the goods 
and obtaining a refund. Here Mrs K opted to accept Hs offer of a refund. The logical end 
result of that decision was that the fitted items would be removed and the bathroom restored 
to its original condition.
In practical terms this would be impossible to achieve as presumably the old bathroom 
fittings had been disposed of. And the cost of removing all the items and reinstatement work 
 which included floor tiles - wouldve been disproportionately expensive. And thats ignoring 
the disruption which Mrs K and her family wouldve been caused.
I also dont find that Mrs K has suffered any financial loss. Certainly Ive not been supplied 
with information to show she has. The current position as far as Im aware is that goods 
worth £2,978.62 have been supplied and have not been removed. Mrs Ks liability is only the 
£1,006.85 she paid by her Nationwide credit card. Were this sum also to be refunded, she 
would end up in a better financial position than if the contract had never been made. She 
would have goods which hadnt cost her anything.
Im aware that Nationwide hasnt refunded any payment. But that doesnt make any 
difference. If a breach of contract occurs - and there is more than one potentially liable party 
- the sum to be recovered remains the same irrespective of which party pays it or in what 
proportion. In other words, the complainant cant improve the outcome beyond their actual 
loss by making claims against multiple parties.
In summary, I find that Nationwide was entitled to decline Mrs Ks section 75 claim. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman