DRN-2577629
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has recorded missed 
payments on her credit file.
What happened
Miss A has explained that around March 2019 she was suffering with longstanding medical 
problems that impacted her ability to maintain credit card payments. In March 2019 Miss A 
made a payment to her credit card but it wasnt enough to cover the minimum payment. 
Barclaycard has sent statements that show no further payments were made until Miss A 
cleared the outstanding balance at the end of August 2019. 
Barclaycard recorded arrears for March, April, May, June, July and August 2019. 
Miss A has told us she recently applied for a mortgage but ran into difficulties because of the 
arrears information reported by Barclaycard on her credit file. Miss A asked a credit 
reference agency to amend her credit file but, after it checked with Barclaycard, it advised 
that wasnt possible. 
Miss A complained and Barclaycard responded on 27 November 2020. Barclaycard said the 
missed payments it reported were factually correct and didnt agree to make amendments. 
But Barclaycard said that if Miss A could provide evidence she was hospitalised it would 
consider amending her credit file. 
Miss A referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Miss A 
forwarded information from her doctors that confirmed she has suffered with long standing 
health conditions over the course of several years. Miss A also sent in evidence she had 
attended the hospital for treatment as a day patient on a number of occasions during the 
period she was in arrears. Our investigator asked Barclaycard whether it would consider 
amending Miss As credit file but it didnt agree. Barclaycard has also said that Miss A didnt 
contact it during the period in question to ask for assistance while she wasnt able to 
maintain her payments. 
The investigator thought Barclaycard had dealt with Miss As complaint fairly so didnt ask it 
to do anything else. Miss A asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss A for the information shes given us about her health during what was 
clearly a difficult time. Miss A has told us her health impacted her ability to maintain the 
monthly payments on her credit card for an extended period. And Miss A has also told us 
that the missed payments have caused problems with a mortgage application. Ive 
considered whether Barclaycard has treated Miss A fairly by reporting arrears and whether 
the information is accurate. 
When a business is told a customer is having trouble maintaining their payments it should 
treat them positively and sympathetically. That can mean a range of things, including 
considering whether its right to report information about missed payments to the credit 
reference agencies. In this case, Barclaycard has told us it wasnt aware of Miss As health 
problems during the period in question. Barclaycard has forwarded copies of letters it sent 
Miss A and I can see that in May 2019 it wrote to her to confirm the account was placed on a 
30 day hold to give time to provide information about her finances. 
In July 2019, Barclaycard wrote to Miss A again, as no further information was forwarded, 
and asked her to get in touch. Barclaycards letter gave details of a number of organisations 
that could assist or provide advice. Whilst I understand Miss A was going through a difficult 
time, I think Barclaycards actions were positive and sympathetic. I havent found 
Barclaycard treated Miss A unfairly. 
Barclaycards final response said it would consider amending Miss As credit file if she 
provided evidence she was hospitalised during the period in question. Miss A has sent us 
evidence that she did visit the hospital between March and September 2019 and received 
treatment. But, after reviewing it, Barclaycard didnt agree to remove the arrears information 
it reported. I understand Miss A was going through a very difficult time, but I dont think 
Barclaycards decision is unfair. Ultimately, Barclaycard is required to accurately report how 
credit commitments are maintained and I think the information concerning Miss As arrears 
does that. Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, but I havent found Barclaycard has treated her 
unfairly by reporting arrears.  
As I havent found Barclaycard has made errors in this case and Im satisfied it dealt with 
Miss As complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman