DRN-1679144
The complaint
Miss O says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Miss O took out a Barclays credit card in 2003. At the same time, Barclays sold her PPI to 
protect her card repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Miss O didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Os case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Miss O that she had a choice about taking out PPI and 
get her agreement before adding it. I gather the sale took place at a branch meeting and its 
now difficult to say with any certainty what happened at the time. 
Ive carefully considered what Miss O says about how the PPI was sold, including that she 
didnt know it was optional. That may be the case, but Ive seen a copy of her signed credit 
card application form. In it, she was given the option to mark a box and sign to request PPI. 
The box to take PPI was marked with a cross and Miss O signed in the relevant place. 
In addition, its now many years since the PPI was sold. In my view that makes it more 
difficult for me to rely on what Miss O remembers from the time. It could be that  
understandably after all this time  she was told about the PPI but simply doesnt recall 
being made aware it was optional.
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays didnt make it clear to Miss O 
that she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think she chose to take it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Miss Os complaint, 
but I dont think there are. Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss O. That favours 
her because it meant Barclays, among other things, should have looked into whether it was 
right for her. 
I cant say for sure what checks Barclays made. But, from what I know of Miss Os 
circumstances, I think the PPI was right for her. I say that because, for example:
It seems Miss O would have been eligible for the cover. I realise she says she was a 
full-time carer for her son and was receiving state benefits. But the application form 
indicates she was employed and had an annual income of £12,500. In the absence 
of a response to our recent requests for further information about this, Ive little option 
but to rely on the details given in the form to show she was in work. And theres 
nothing to suggest she was significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or limits 
on, the policy. 
It doesnt look like Miss O was entitled to much, if any, enhanced sick pay or 
redundancy pay from her employer. And it seems she didnt have any other means of 
making her monthly repayments if she was off work. Given the PPI would potentially 
have paid up to 12 monthly benefits per claim, I think the PPI provided Miss O with 
useful protection. 
 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Miss O. And it was flexible in that she 
could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided she no longer 
wanted it.
As well as checking if the PPI was right for her, Barclays also should have given Miss O 
clear information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about buying it. I 
dont know what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Miss O 
agreed to the cover and it looks to me as if it was right for her and was affordable. So, I dont 
think better information would have affected her decision to buy it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss O. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss O. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss O about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss O, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
Putting things right
Barclays has to pay back to Miss O any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay 
back to Miss O any extra interest she paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss O the difference 
between what Miss O owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Miss O 
8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss O can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all the cost of 
the PPI to Miss O.But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman