DRN-1544951
 
The complaint
Mr P and Miss M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt apply overpayments to their 
mortgage account correctly. They ask that it corrects the account and pays compensation for 
their time and upset and their loss in not making further overpayments while this is sorted 
out.
What happened
Mr P and Miss M made additional payments to their mortgage account in May 2017, March 
2018 and June 2018. In July 2018 Barclays applied the payments as part redemptions. 
Mr P and Miss M said they wanted the payments to be applied as overpayments, so that the 
mortgage balance reduced but their contractual monthly payments stayed the same. 
Barclays offered £200 compensation and to correct the account  so that the payments were 
applied as overpayments. It said it didnt do this because Mr P said he didnt want the 
contractual monthly payments to increase. 
Mr P says since their new fixed rate product took effect in August 2018 Barclays has written 
to them three times saying their CMP has changed. Mr P says he doesnt know whether his 
lump sum payments were used to reduce the balance or why Barclays is giving him the 
option of having the CMP adjusted again. 
Our investigator said Barclays had agreed to put the account into the position it would have 
been in if the lump sum payments had been applied as overpayments. It also offered £200 
compensation. Our investigator said this was fair. He said Mr P and Miss M would have to 
speak to Barclays about how this would affect their monthly payments.
Mr P said he wanted to know how his contractual monthly payment would change before 
agreeing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and Miss M made three additional payments to their mortgage account: £1,200 in May 
2017, £2,000 in March 2018 and £600 in June 2018.
Mr P and Miss M took out a new mortgage product in mid 2018. In early July 2018 they were 
told that from August 2018 their CMP would be £715. Mr P complained, saying this was 
more than the CMP quoted on the key facts illustration.
Mr P and Miss M received a response from Barclays in mid July 2018 saying the CMP would 
be £697 as Barclays had applied their pre-payment balance to the mortgage balance. Barclays had made an error: it applied the three additional payments (totalling £3,800) plus 
Mr P and Miss Ms most recent monthly payment (about £700) as a part redemption. 
Mr P called in May 2019 to make another additional payment. During the call Mr P was told 
the account was in arrears. This wasnt right: it appeared that Mr P and Miss M had missed a 
payment the previous year because Barclays had wrongly applied it as a part redemption. 
Barclays corrected the error and sent a further letter saying the CMP would now be £698. It 
offered £150 compensation for the upset caused. 
Mr P and Miss M remained unhappy that Barclays had applied their additional payments as 
a part redemption. 
Mr P says he was always clear that he wanted the additional payments to reduce the 
balance but that he wanted the CMP to stay the same. Barclays accepts this. And I think the 
evidence supports what Mr P has said. The first two additional payments were treated as 
overpayments. The account notes suggest this is what Mr P asked for in 2017, and hes 
been consistent about this throughout the complaint.
I think there was a misunderstanding on Barclays part about what Mr P wanted it to do when 
he complained in July 2018. I think Mr P was asking why the CMP was different from what 
hed expected it to be after the rate switch. I dont think he intended this to be a request for 
the overpayments to be applied as a part redemption to reduce the CMP. 
Barclays has offered to put matters right. It's offered to reverse the part redemption and 
adjust the account from that date (July 2018). It also offered £200 compensation. I think this 
is fair. 
I can understand that Mr P and Miss M want to understand how adjusting their account will 
affect them, and what their CMP will be after the adjustment. I asked Barclays to 
provide information about this.
First, their CMP will increase. Based on the adjusted account statement provided by 
Barclays, I think the CMP will be about £716. 
Second, the account will be underfunded. The part redemption meant Mr P and Miss Ms 
CMP reduced from July 2018. Adjusting the account will reverse this - so the CMPs made by 
Mr P and Miss M since July 2018 will be lower than the adjusted CMP. Barclays says the 
underfunding up to early May 2020 will be about £415 and Mr P and Miss M will need to 
make a payment to cover this - although Barclays says they already make regular 
overpayments. 
I appreciate Mr P and Miss M were reluctant to make additional payments until they were 
satisfied the matter was sorted out. But Barclays explained its errors and offered to adjust 
their account in June 2019. I dont think its fair to require it to compensate Mr P and Miss M 
for not making further additional payments.
I do think though that this has caused Mr P and Miss M worry and upset. Barclays 
offered £200 compensation for the upset caused by its errors. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I leave it to Mr P and Miss M to decide whether to accept Barclays offer to adjust their 
account (to reverse the part redemption and apply the additional payments as 
overpayments) and to pay them £200. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I find the offer made by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to put matters right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman