DRN-3083406
The complaint
Mr S and Miss S complain about the format of their online bank statements from Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr S and Miss S had a joint account with Lloyds. In September 2020, Lloyds made a change 
to how the names on joint account statements were seen when looking at online statements.  
This was that the primary account holder (the first named) could see both names on the 
statement, but the secondary account holder (the second named) could only see her/his 
name.
Mr S and Miss S complained. They said Mr S was making an application for a UK visa  and 
his application could be jeopardised. This was because he was the secondary account 
holder  so when he accessed the online statement for the joint account it only showed his 
name. And  they hadnt been advised by Lloyds of the change. They said that if their visa 
application failed because of this issue, it would cost them £350.
In December 2020, Lloyds said theyd made the policy change for data protection purposes. 
They said Mr S and Miss S could ask for and receive a paper statement which should be 
accepted for the visa application. They also sent a second letter in December 2020 which 
apologised for an error concerning Mr S and Mrs S address and paid compensation of £150 
for that. At the same time, they sent a to whom it may concern letter to Mr S and Miss S 
which showed their full names and address  and this could be used in support of the visa 
application.
Mr S and Miss S brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds acted fairly. Mr S 
and Miss S could still access online statements showing both their names by going into Miss 
S online banking and looking at the statements that way. Lloyds had offered to Mr S and 
Miss S ways to get a full paper statement and had also provided a letter for them to use with 
their visa application. 
Mr S and Miss S asked that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked Lloyds for their policy about this issue  and in September 2020, they changed 
the way that names are shown on online statements. So, from then on, the first named 
(primary) account holder would see a statement with both names on it; and the other 
(secondary) account holder would only see his or her name. In this case, the way the 
account was set up was that Mr S was the secondary account holder  so when he looked at 
the online statement, he could only see his, not both names. He said this might put his visa 
application at risk and he stood to lose money if it failed.
Ive looked at how Lloyds handled Mr S and Miss S complaint. Lloyds explained their policy 
and why theyd changed things  due to data protection. We cant make banks change their 
policies such as this  they are down to their commercial judgement. But Lloyds did explain 
to Mr S and Miss S how they could obtain full paper statements  which would show the full 
names of them both. And in another letter, they provided a letter to who it may concern  
showing their full names and address. This couldve been used to support the visa 
application. They also paid compensation of £150 for there being a slight error in the 
address held in their records for Mr S and Miss S. I havent looked at this aspect as this 
wasnt part of the complaint that Mr S and Miss S brought to us.
Ive also considered whether Mr S and Miss S couldve obtained an online statement 
showing both names by going into Miss S online banking profile  as this wouldve shown 
both names on the statement that way. They said to us that she didnt use online banking so 
that wasnt a viable solution. But they didnt say if there was a reason for this. Ive thought 
about this. And Im persuaded that in todays world  where so much banking is done online 
 I think its fair to expect that Miss S couldve gone online to access the joint account 
statements which wouldve shown both names. 
Mr S and Miss S didnt advise us, or Lloyds of the outcome of the visa application  so we 
dont know if there was an adverse impact or not.
I can appreciate that Mr S and Miss S were inconvenienced by Lloyds changes. But  
Lloyds dealt with their complaint effectively and offered alternatives. And so  while I know 
this will be disappointing to Mr S and Miss S  I wont be asking Lloyds to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman