DRN-3816629
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions (MHCC) applied, when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire 
agreement.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr D entered into hire agreement to acquire a new car. The car was 
collected in June 2022 by MHCCs recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B. 
An inspection was carried out by B. It noted the service history was incomplete and said the 
following damage, totalling £755, was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. C Post R  scratched - £140
2. B Post R  dent - £60
3. Front bumper  scuffed - £175
4. Left front alloy wheel  scuffed - £65
5. Left rear alloy wheel  scuffed - £65
6. Rear bumper  chips - £175
7. Left front door  scratched - £75
Mr D complained to MHCC. He said whilst he accepted most the damage charges, he 
disagreed with the charges for the C Post R and the front bumper. He said the scratches to 
the C Post R were consistent with fair wear and tear. He also said the scratches to the front 
bumper were underneath the bumper and not visible. He said there wasnt much gap 
between the bumper and the road and so, it was likely the surface would be scratched 
during the three and a half years he had the car. Mr D also said he hadnt used the mileage 
he was entitled to under the agreement and so, MHCC should reduce some of the damage 
charges to reflect this.
MHCC issued its response to Mr Ds complaint and said the damage charge for the C Post R 
and front bumper was correctly charged. It acknowledged that Mr D had regularly serviced 
the car and that the car had a valid MOT. However it said this had no bearing on the damage 
charges. It also said there were no provisions in Mr Ds agreement which suggested a 
reduction should be made to damage charges, if a car is returned with lower mileage than 
expected.
Mr D disagreed and offered MHCC £500 to settle all the outstanding charges. But MHCC 
disagreed.
Unhappy with this, Mr D referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said he had already paid £500 to MHCC in an attempt to settle the outstanding charges. 
To put things right, he said he didnt want MHCC to pursue him for any further charges.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said the charges were applied fairly in line 
with the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) 
fair wear and tear guidelines. She also said Mr Ds agreement didnt require MHCC to offset 
any damage charges against any unused mileage.
Mr D disagreed. He said didnt think the damage under the front bumper should be 
chargeable, as it couldnt be seen and he said this part of the car would always be exposed 
to minor objects on the road.
As Mr D remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
Mr D is only disputing the damage charges for the front bumper and C Post R. So this 
decision will only comment these two areas of damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this 
as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ds complaint against 
MHCC.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MHCC is a member of the BVRLA.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds hire agreement explain that Mr D must return the car in 
good condition, allowing for fair wear and tear. The terms and conditions confirm that MHCC 
use the criteria set out in the BVRLAs guidelines to determine what fair wear and tear is. 
And they say Mr D will be charged for any damage outside fair wear and tear. 
C Post R
The BVRLA guidance says for damage to the door aperture, boot, boot liner and luggage 
area:
Scratches on treads, sills and seals that reflect normal use are acceptable.
Ive looked at the photograph provided for the C Post R where damage was identified by B. 
The photograph shows a scratch that is in excess of 50mm which has penetrated the 
surface paint. There are also other small marks on the same panel. Having thought about 
this carefully, whilst I acknowledge what Mr D has said about his children being taken in and 
out of the car, I dont think the damage is representative of a scratch that reflects normal 
use. So, Im satisfied MHCC is entitled to charge Mr D for the damage to the C Post R as it 
falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Front bumper
The BVRLA guidance says for damage to the paintwork, vehicle body, bumpers and trim:
Scuffs and scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable provided the moulding or trim is not 
broken, cracked or deformed. 
Ive looked at the photograph which shows the front bumper. This shows a large area of the 
bumper where there are a number of significant scratches which are in excess of 100mm. 
The damage is in one area of the bumper panel, rather than across the panel. So I dont 
think its consistent with fair wear and tear. Ive considered that Mr D has said the damage 
isnt visible as it is under the bumper. However, Im satisfied it is visible and it is part of the 
bumper. Because the scratches are in excess of 25mm, I think its fair for MHCC to charge 
Mr D for the repair to the front bumper, as the damage falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Mr D has said MHCC should reduce the damage charges to reflect that he returned the car 
with around 27,500 miles. This was less than the mileage he was entitled to cover under the 
agreement. However, Ive reviewed Mr Ds hire agreement and the terms and conditions and 
there are no provisions which say Mr D would be entitled to a reduction in damage charges, if the car was returned with lesser mileage than anticipated. So, I dont think MHCC has 
acted unfairly when it declined to reduce Mr Ds damage charges, to compensate Mr D for 
returning the car with less than the maximum allowed mileage. It follows that I dont think 
MHCC need to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman