DRN-2743022
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 17 December 2019, Mr T was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. The agreement was for £5,678 over 61 months; with 59 monthly 
repayments of £134.75 starting a month after the agreement began, and a final payment of 
£323.75. At the time the car was just over six years old and had done 59,800 miles.
In January 2020 Mr T says the car had a problem with the glow plugs and a noise from the 
fan. The issue with the glow plugs was fixed by the dealership who supplied the car. In July 
2020, when Mr T took the car for an MOT, he was told that air-conditioning (AC) compressor 
had split, and that this could cause the engine to fail. He obtained a specialist report on the 
AC and the dealership agreed to repair this partly under warranty - Mr T had to contribute 
£800 towards the £1,800 costs. The car went to the dealership for repair on 24 August 2020.
On 20 October 2020, the dealership told Mr T that the car was repaired and ready for 
collection. But, when he went to pick up it up, he saw smoke coming from the engine and he 
could hear banging noises. So he refused to accept the car. The dealership investigated this 
problem and, in doing so, removed the battery. Because neither they nor Mr T has the anti-
theft code this meant the radio no longer worked. 
Because it would cost £400 to obtain the anti-theft code from the manufacturer, the 
dealership replaced the radio instead. But the new radio (which included the sat nav and 
reverse parking camera) couldnt be operated from the controls on the steering wheel. So, in 
November 2020, the dealership asked that Mr T email them to confirm he would accept the 
car back with the radio not working as it had done before he brought it in for repair. Mr T 
refused to do this, and the dealership then refused to release the car to him. So the car 
remains at the dealership and Mr T remains without use of a car.
Mr T complained to MotoNovo on 16 November 2020, saying the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality, and asking to reject it. But MotoNovo didnt agree, saying Mr T had 
had the car in his possession for 11 months before complaining, and saying the dealership 
wasnt liable for AC fault as this was covered by the warranty. But they said the dealership 
should resolve the issue with the radio, and if they didnt then Mr T would need to consider 
taking legal action against them. Mr T was unhappy with MotoNovos response, and he 
brought his complaint to us for investigation. 
Our investigator said the issue with the glow plugs was solved quickly and caused no 
ongoing problems. So he didnt think this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied. But he thought the problem with the AC compressor was present when the car was 
supplied to Mr T, and this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. This was because Mr T 
took possession of the car during winter, and therefore the AC was highly unlikely to have 
been used. And then we entered a national lockdown, with travel restrictions, so Mr T didnt 
use the car much during this time either. 
The investigator said Mr T would only have used the AC from the end of the lockdown (June 
2020) until the issue was identified on the MOT (July 2020). And he thought it unlikely that a 
maximum of two months use would cause the compressor to split. So he said the issue was 
likely developing when the car was supplied. And if Mr T had acquired the car during the 
summer months then this issue wouldve become obvious sooner.
The investigator also said that MotoNovo were responsible for the quality of the car, and the 
steering wheel radio controls stopped working after the dealership attempted repair on the 
AC compressor  a repair that wasnt completed to a satisfactory standard because of the 
smoke coming from the engine once the repair had been completed. So, because one 
attempt at repair had already taken place, and this repair had failed, the investigator thought 
it was reasonable to allow Mr T to reject the car.
In addition to the car being rejected, the investigator said MotoNovo should refund all 
payments from 24 August 2020 (when Mr T stopped using the car); refund the £800 Mr T 
paid towards the AC repairs; refund the £78 Mr T paid the AC specialist to diagnose the fault 
after the MOT; and refund Mr T his insurance premiums from December 2020 onwards (he 
was only a named driver on the policy before this point, so no refunds were due). 
Additionally, the investigator said that MotoNovo should pay interest on the above, as well as 
paying Mr T an additional £250 for the trouble and upset hed been caused  Mr Ts partner 
suffers from a serious medical condition and Mr T relied heavily on the car to travel to and 
from many hospital appointments.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigators view. They felt there was no evidence to show 
the car had faults which were developing or present when the car was supplied to Mr T. And, 
because Mr T complained after having the car for six months, its for him to prove this was 
the case. They feel the investigator had based his conclusions on assumptions, not 
evidence, and theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, MotoNovo are responsible.  Whats 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given 
the price, description and other relevant circumstances. The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Mr T took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We ask questions and weigh up all 
the information given. And where theres a lack of specific evidence, as is the case here, my 
decision will be based on what I think is most likely to have happened.
It's not disputed that Mr T had an initial problem with the glow plugs on the car, or that the 
dealership resolved this a few weeks after he took possession of the car. And Ive seen 
nothing to show me this problem reoccurred. Because of this, Im satisfied the problem with 
the glow plugs didnt make the car of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T.
Turning to the problem with the AC compressor. Mr T said that, when he took the car back to 
the dealership in January 2020, there was a noise from the fan. Hes also said the dealership 
didnt take any action to fix this. The evidence Ive seen doesnt show whether this was the 
case or not. But a noise from the fan could indicate an underlying issue with the heating 
system and be a potential indicator of a problem with the AC when the car was supplied.
Mr T has said that, because of a combination of the car being supplied during the winter 
months and his minimal use of the car during the national lock down, he didnt try to use the 
AC until June 2020 when the weather was getting warmer. Given these circumstances, I 
dont think this is unreasonable.
Mr T has also said that, when he tried to use the AC in June 2020, it didnt work. He 
assumed, because of the age of the car, it needed a gas refill and that this could be dealt 
with in July 2020 when the MOT and service was due. And when the MOT was done on 29 
July 2020, Mr T said he was told there was a problem with the AC.
Ive seen Mr T had a specialist AC company inspect the car on 5 August 2020, at a cost of 
£78. And the specialist report confirmed the AC Compressor is missing, clutch plate, centre 
shaft seized. Major Failure. Requires Replacement. But the specialist report doesnt say 
when the problem started developing. And its not possible for a retrospective report to be 
done, because the dealership disposed of the failed AC unit after it was replaced.
Mr T raised the issue of the AC with MotoNovo after having the car for more than six 
months, so under the CRA the obligation is on him to show that the fault was developing 
when the car was supplied. But, for the reasons stated, this isnt possible. However, given 
the timeline referred to above, the amount of use Mr T would practically have had from the 
AC in the time the car was in his possession, and the major failure of the AC confirmed by 
the AC specialist; Im satisfied its more likely than not that the fault with the AC was present 
or developing when the car was supplied to Mr T. And, because of this, MotoNovo need to 
do something about it.
The CRA allows one chance at repair, and this repair happened with the dealership taking 
from 2 August to 20 October 2020 to replace the AC. And this repair failed  it resulted in a 
smoking engine which, when fixed, resulted in the steering wheel controls for the radio 
stopping working. So, under the CRA, Mr T now has the right to reject the car.
Putting things right For the reasons stated, Mr T should be allowed to reject the car. He should also be 
refunded the cost of the AC specialists report and the £800 he paid towards the warranty 
repair  as this repair related to a fault that was present when the car was supplied to Mr T, 
this shouldve been repaired at no cost to him. He should also receive a refund of his costs 
from when he stopped having use of the car, with the exception of his car insurance 
premiums that didnt start until 18 December 2020  he was only a named driver on a car 
insurance policy up until this point.
In addition, Mr T hasnt had use of the car since 24 August 2020, but hes continued to make 
payments to MotoNovo. Hes needed the car, not only for general day to day use, but also to 
take his partner to regular hospital appointments due to her ongoing medical condition. Hes 
also taken three days off work in October and November 2020 waiting for the dealership to 
return the car to him, but this didnt happen. So Im satisfied that this situation has caused Mr 
T significant inconvenience. And I agree that MotoNovo should also compensate him for this.
MotoNovo should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr T.
remove all record of the agreement from Mr Ts credit file.
refund all payments Mr T has paid since 24 August 2020.
refund Mr Ts monthly car insurance premiums from 18 December 2020.
refund the £78 Mr T paid for the AC specialists inspection.
refund the £800 contribution Mr T paid towards the cost of the AC repair.
pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above, to be calculated from when Mr T made 
the payments to the date of the refund.
pay Mr T an additional £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman