DRN-1681039
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Very) added interest to her 
catalogue account after the end of a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) promotion. She said she 
tried to make her final payment before the deadline to stop interest being added, but her 
bank blocked it. 
What happened
Mrs J has an account with Very. In 2018 she bought an item through a BNPL promotion. She 
had until late October 2019 to pay off the balance or interest would be added to her payable 
balance.
Towards the end of October 2019, Mrs J says she was abroad and tried to make the 
payment to her account. She says her bank stopped the payment because they thought it 
might have been fraudulent.
Because of this, Mrs J wasnt able to make the payment by the deadline, and Very added 
interest to her total balance.
Mrs J contacted Very to ask them to remove the interest as shes been a loyal customer for 
a long time.
Very said the interest had been added correctly, in line with the terms and conditions of her 
account. So they declined to remove this.
Mrs J was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators reviewed her complaint but didnt think Very had done anything wrong. He 
agreed theyd added interest to her balance correctly.
Mrs J didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs J and Very both agree the payment in question was made to them too late. And both 
agree the terms and conditions say interest will be added at the end of the BNPL period 
unless the balance has been cleared. So Im satisfied Very followed the terms and 
conditions of the account correctly as the payment wasnt made on time.
Having said that, I sympathise with Mrs J as her payment being blocked by the bank isnt her 
fault. But its not Verys fault either. 
Very has also provided this service with logs from Mrs Js account. These show she logged 
in to pay £50 on 21 October 2019. But Very doesnt have records of any further log-ins on 
the day Mrs J says the additional payment was attempted, and blocked by her bank. And the next payment was received on 30 October 2019, which is after the BNPL promotion had 
expired. So it seems Mrs J tried to make her payment in a different way to what she usually 
did. 
With this in mind, the account terms have been followed by Very as it didnt receive the 
payment on time, and Very has confirmed there arent any records on Mrs Js account of her 
trying to make the payment on the day she says it was blocked by her bank. So I dont think 
itd be fair for me to say they cant charge the interest in line with the account terms. As a 
result, I wont be asking Very to do any more in relation to Mrs Js complaint.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman