DRN-2212457
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) closed his bank account during the COVID 
lockdown without any explanation. 
What happened
Mr Y says after attempting to access his account via an ATM machine and online, he was 
told by a member of Lloyds bank staff his bank account had been closed. Mr Y says that he 
hadnt been informed in writing or by aby other means that his account would be closed or 
any reason why this action was taken by Lloyds. Mr Y says this happened during the COVID 
lockdown and he suffers with a medical condition and this has caused him considerable 
stress and inconvenience. 
Mr Y is looking to Lloyds to compensate him for the fact they have refused to reinstate 
banking facilities and give him access to his bank account.  
Lloyds says they wrote to Mr Y on several occasions concerning his account operation and 
then issued a formal demand to repay the overdraft along with a 60-day notice period 
advising they would be closing the account. This was followed by a further reminder giving 
30 days notice. While discussions were held with Mr Y, Lloyds felt that repayment of the 
debt was unlikely and subsequently placed the account with their recoveries team. Lloyds 
says they have done nothing wrong and have paid £50 to Mr Y for poor customer service but 
this was unrelated to the decision to close his account. 
Mr Y was unhappy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold the complaint as she 
felt the account closure wasnt during the COVID lockdown and  Lloyds had acted in line with 
the formal notices and within the terms and conditions of Mr Ys bank account. 
Mr Y wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for  the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and for much the 
same reasons and I will explain how I have come to my decision. 
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Lloyds acted unreasonably when 
closing Mr Ys account and if as Mr Y says was made more difficult during the COVID 
Lockdown. 
I will start by saying that from all the information I have seen, the account was formally 
closed in the first week of March 2020 and I am satisfied that was prior to the COVID 
lockdown. Thats not to say the complaint isnt treated with any less importance or cant be 
considered as a result. To be clear I will focus my decision on whether Lloyds acted fairly 
when closing Mr Ys  bank account.
I can see that it must have been a difficult time for Mr Y having his working hours reduced 
due to ill health putting strain on his finances. Mr Y says that he hasnt received any 
notification from Lloyds in writing or by any other means from them. I have considered this 
as it is an important part of the complaint. From the information provided to this service I can 
see that various letters were issued by Lloyds to Mr Ys home address during October and 
November 2019 culminating in a formal demand in December 2019 with a 60 day notice to 
close the account. I can also see that a further reminder letter was issued in January 2020 
informing Mr Y  the account would be closed in 30 days. 
I am satisfied that these letters were sent by Lloyds and on balance its likely these were 
received by Mr Y. I say that because I have seen transcripts of conversations between Mr Y 
and Lloyds in December 2019 and February 2020 showing the account was discussed and 
an income and expenditure profile was mentioned. On both occasions a 30- day holding 
period was given to allow Mr Y to come up with proposals to clear the borrowing and in the 
last telephone conversation in February, I can see it was mentioned by Lloyds that his 
account may be closed and referred to credit reference agencies. So, I cant see that Lloyds 
havent advised Mr Y of the likely closure of his bank account. 
While Mr Y says he completed an income and expenditure profile, I have no evidence of that 
other than the conversation notes discussing his general financial position. Thats not to say 
Mr Y didnt send this  I have nothing provided by Mr Y to support this. Even if an income 
and expenditure profile was sent in by Mr Y, thats not to say  Lloyds have to accept this as a 
way to resolve his financial situation. 
Under the terms and conditions of the account as explained by the investigator Lloyds  can 
close his bank account under the following section: 
. 24.1 This agreement continues until you or we cancel or end it. The table below shows how
this agreement (or any account, benefits package or service) can be ended. If we end it, we
will act in a manner we think is reasonable in the circumstances and will try to reduce the
inconvenience to you. Lloyds can close the account by giving two months notice , in writing,
and for any other reason.
In addition, Lloyds had issued a formal demand and the terms of this had not been met by 
Mr Y  it follows, I am satisfied that Lloyds acted reasonably here and provided sufficient 
notice to Mr Y of the closure of his bank account.
Lloyds have paid £50 to Mr Y for not providing the level of service they expect to provide,  
when discussing his account, but I am satisfied this is not an admission on their part they 
have made an error in closing the account when  they did. 
While Mr Y will be disappointed with my decision, I will not be asking anymore of Lloyds 
here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman