DRN-3552024
The complaint
Ms H has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Churchill. She isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Ms H made a claim under her home insurance policy in relation to a subsidence problem at 
her home address in 2018. As part of the rectification work trees had to be felled and a tree 
surgeon attended her property.
After the tree surgeon had finished removing a tree they showed Ms H a damaged section of 
her garden wall that hadnt been visible before the tree was removed. Ms H thought the 
damage was new and had been caused by the tree surgeon as opposed to being old 
damage. So, she complained to UKI and then this Service about the damage.
UKI said the wall had been suffering direct impact due to the growth and trees around the 
wall, including from the neighbouring property. It says it was noted in the pre purchase 
survey and in images taken that the damage just wasnt visible to Ms H or her neighbour 
before the removal of the tree. And highlighted that the neighbour had previously carried out 
repairs to the wall which was leaning and not in a state of good repair. However, it did offer 
£250 as a gesture of goodwill for the repairs to the damaged section of the wall. But Ms H 
remained unhappy and complained to this Service as she wanted UKI to repair the damaged 
section of the wall.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms H but didnt uphold her complaint. She agreed it 
was possible that the tree surgeon caused some damage to a small section of the wall when 
they removed a tree. However, she thought UKIs offer of £250 as a contribution towards 
repairing the area of damage caused by the tree surgeon was fair.
But Ms H didnt agree and got some quotes to repair the wall which were, in the main, 
significantly higher than the amount UKI had offered. Our investigator asked UKI to consider 
these but it didnt change its view and she agreed a lot of the increased costs stemmed from 
the fact that the wall wasnt in a good state of repair and would need rebuilding as opposed 
to just repairing the small section of the wall that had been damaged by the tree surgeon. 
So, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand Ms Hs frustration here as she simply feels the tree surgeon caused the 
damage outlined to her wall. And I think there is sufficient evidence to support her position 
as our investigator outlined. But the difficulty in this case is that the whole wall isnt in a state 
of good repair, so the quotes for repair that Ms H has gained quote for repair of a greater 
area than UKI is responsible for (in the main).
UKI has looked at the various quotes Ms H has gained and is of the view that the whole wall 
needs replacing, and I can understand its position here having looked at the photos and 
considered the pre purchase survey. However, the lowest of Ms Hs quotes (£788) suggests 
a way of repairing just the area of the wall that UKI is responsible for as its tree surgeon may 
have damaged this part of the wall. But it also includes additional work, such as the removal 
of a tree stump, that UKI isnt responsible for. UKI has suggested the cost of the tree stump 
removal would be somewhere between £250 and £500 which means its offer of £250 is fair 
and in line with Ms Hs quotation.
However, I dont think we can be sure about how much Ms Hs contractor would charge for 
the stump removal here and obviously there is a wide range in the figure UKI has suggested. 
As such I think it would be fairer for UKI to pay Ms H what it would cost her to make good 
this part of the wall less the cost of the stump removal. So, Ms H can either ask her 
contractor to provide a new quote without the stump removal costed in, or UKI can pay £500 
as opposed to £250 if Ms H isnt able to do this for any reason. I say this as this is more in 
line with the quotation Ms H gained. And I think UKI should pay Ms H £100 in compensation 
for the stress and hassle she has faced by the damage caused to her wall.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. 
UKI reiterated its general position and feels that its offer of £250 is fair. And questions why a 
further £100 compensation has been suggested as it feels its original offer is fair and in line 
with the general approach outlined within the provisional decision. And ultimately, UKI 
disagrees that it should pay £500, as opposed to £250, in the event Ms H cant get her 
repairer to provide a quote without the stump removal. This is because it feels the two 
aspects (wall repair and stump removal) are completely separate. 
While Ms H also said again she felt that UKI had provided the contractors that caused the 
damage and so it should make good the repair. She had questioned their competence 
originally and was offered assurances that any damage would be made good which she 
feels has been reneged upon. And she went over her previous evidence again and said that 
although it was difficult to repair just the section that was damaged she has managed to get 
this repaired now - although her neighbour feels the repair is unsightly. 
Ms H sent in a photo of what she felt was a botched repaired wall and said that she feels it 
is extraordinary that a contractor would be allowed to walk away from the damage they had 
caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can understand Ms Hs continued frustration, but it is clear that the wall was in a poor state 
of repair generally before. And this impacted the ability to repair just the damage caused as 
opposed to the whole wall. 
As Ms H has highlighted herself in her response most repairers wouldnt even attempt just a 
repair of the damaged area as opposed to repairing the whole wall and this was also 
highlighted by UKI. So, although I can understand her frustration, it wouldnt be fair to ask 
UKI to repair the whole wall as this would amount to betterment. This is why I suggested UKI 
pays a slightly higher contribution towards the cost of the repair that Ms H has ultimately 
undertaken in line with the one quote that Ms H gained that would undertake a repair (less 
the cost of the stump removal). I know she isnt happy with the repair now but this isnt a 
matter for UKI as it was her chosen repairer, so I wont comment on this here.
Turning to UKIs representations. It feels that its original offer of a £250 contribution towards 
the repair of the whole wall was fair and so it shouldnt have to pay anymore or pay £100 
compensation. But I dont think its original offer went far enough. 
I say this as it is clear from Ms Hs quotations that one of her contractors was happy to 
undertake a repair of the damage its contractor caused. And so, I think it should have 
engaged with this and looked to make a payment in line with this at an earlier stage. I accept 
that this quote for £788 made reference to the removal of a tree stump. But it could have 
simply asked for a further quote without the cost of the stump removal and paid that. As I 
didnt want the matter to drag on any longer I suggested that Ms H can still do this. But if she 
wasnt able to do this for any reason it would seem fair, given the passage of time, to pay a 
£500 contribution instead. This was because I didnt find UKIs guestimate of the stump 
removal persuasive and it seems just as likely that it would cost the lower end of its estimate 
(£250) as it would the higher end (£500). 
Given all of this, I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for UKI to pay Ms H a £500 (total) contribution towards the 
cost of the repair that Ms H has undertaken. Or Ms H can provide a breakdown from her 
repairer of the cost of just repairing the wall. And I remain of the view that UKI should pay 
£100 in compensation for the stress, hassle and inconvenience it caused Ms H when it 
damaged her wall.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance 
Limited trading as Churchill to:
pay Ms Hs costs for solely repairing the damaged part of her wall (subject to her 
evidencing her position) or a £500 contribution: and 
pay £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman