DRN-2774519
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc unfairly refused her claim brought under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This related to the supply of a conservatory 
roof. She seeks compensation.
What happened
Mrs D tells us that she contacted a business Ill refer to as N as her conservatory roof was 
leaking. She says the agreed work included a replacement roof, bricking up some windows 
and fitting a bi-fold door. And that this was financed through a fixed-sum loan from Hitachi. 
Mrs D states that the area created was always intended to be used as a kitchen-diner. And 
that N had agreed to obtain all the required building regulation approvals.
Mrs D explains that after the work was done, she was advised by the surveyor appointed by 
N (in respect of building regulation approval), that she needed additional planning consents 
from the local authority as the alterations may be classified as an extension. Mrs D states 
that she incurred additional expense in terms of the additional retrospective planning 
charges (£712.50). And a restocking charge (£300) in having to return the kitchen she 
intended to fit, due to the delays in receiving building and planning consent.
Hitachi told us that when N was first approached it (N) had explained to Mrs D that it couldnt 
build an extension as it is a window/conservatory/door retailer and extensions are not its 
specialist area. It said that N had made it clear that it was unable to provide an extension 
and that the works which were agreed involved changing the roof to a solid slate roof; 
installing windows and bricking up a wall. It said that N had advised that in doing these 
works the conservatory would remain as a conservatory. And that when the walls were 
bricked up no other building regulations were required as the wall was pre-existing and the 
foundations were not being changed. It stated that N had only agreed to obtain the building 
control certificate for the change of roof. Hitachi told us that N had completed the works 
which had been agreed. And these had been signed off by the building inspector. Hitachi 
said it didnt find thered been any breach of contract.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 March 2021. I said that I didnt intend 
to uphold the complaint as the final building regulation certificate of approval had been 
issued. And it accorded with the work described on the initial notice and in the finance 
agreement. I felt that Hitachi had been entitled to conclude that thered been no breach of 
contract or misrepresentation for which it was liable.
Since then Mrs D has replied. But Ive not seen any response from Hitachi. I thank Mrs D for 
her response and the points shes made in which she disagrees with some aspects of my 
provisional decision. These largely relate to findings about what work N had agreed to 
undertake. And the alleged failings to properly carry out the work specified.
But for reasons Ill explain in more detail in my final decision Im not minded to change my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs D has experienced a substantial amount of upset over the building work 
that she had carried out at her home. I accept it was a major investment and that issues 
have arisen both in relation to the work and some regulatory concerns. I understand that Mrs 
D would be concerned to be advised that she might require additional building regulation and 
/ or planning approval to that which she originally expected.
Im aware that shes made complaints to Hitachi about the quality of some of the work and 
that recently an issue has been raised about tiles blowing off the roof and a crack in the facia 
of the bi-fold doors. But I cant look at those matters as theyve arisen after the original 
complaint was made. So Hitachi needs to be given the chance to respond. And theyd need 
to be considered in a separate complaint if matters cant be resolved.
My decision relates to the issues raised in the complaint she brought to this service in 
November 2019  shortly after the initial build and when issues with building regulation 
approval arose. Ive been told that the initial faults with the build itself have been resolved 
(excluding the most recent issues). So this decision concentrates on the disputed aspects 
about the necessary building regulation and / or planning consents.
Mrs Ds complaint is that N  as part of the contract for works - was required to apply for all 
the necessary regulatory approval and ensure the work was carried out in accordance with 
the requirements. And that it didnt do this. As a consequence she states that she incurred 
additional expense in having to make additional applications for regulatory approval herself.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I think its important to set out my role here. Im considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Hitachi. Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have 
under Section 75. Nor am I deciding upon the merits of any claim that Mrs D may potentially 
have against N.
Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ds complaint. And in doing that, Im looking to 
see if Hitachi has acted correctly. I also have to take account of relevant law, amongst other 
things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim against the 
provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or services about 
which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the supplier.
The major area of dispute here relates to the nature of the work which N was required to 
undertake. And exactly what N had agreed to obtain in terms of the required building 
regulation approval.Its fair to say theres a significant factual dispute over several issues and these have been 
both emphasised and further clarified in Mrs Ds reply to my provisional decision. 
In terms, its alleged that N didnt tell the approved building inspector, a business Ill refer to 
as J, the full extent of the works it (N) was going to do. In particular, some additional 
brickwork. 
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The fixed-sum loan agreement referred to the goods being financed as a Solid Conservatory 
Roof. Prior to entering into the agreement on 29 January 2019, Mrs D had received an email 
from N, dated 14 January, which had set out the details of the work for which the price of 
£19,900 was being quoted. Its clear from this that additional items of work and materials 
were included in the overall price. Amongst other details the email also referred to the 
following items:
Technical survey to be carried out by approved surveyor, who will provide & submit drawings 
ready for building control.
Inspections by an approved building inspector who will issue a Building Regulations 
Certificate upon completion of the project.
The initial building notice dated 6 February 2019 submitted to the relevant local authority 
describes the works being undertaken as a Conservatory Solid Roof Conversion.
Im not an expert in building regulation and planning law. But Ive done some research on the 
publicly available Planning Portal. My understanding is that building regulation approval is 
required for a replacement conservatory roof. But separate planning permission is not 
usually required. 
The additional works which were mentioned in the email  and which were included in the 
contract price to which I referred earlier - make no reference to an extension or the future 
use of the area as a kitchen. Hitachi also supplied a response from N which indicates that it 
carried out work only on the existing footprint. And that this meant that no additional 
regulatory approval for the agreed works was required. Ive not seen anything in the 
documentary information to contradict this.
Much of what Mrs D has told me seems to have stemmed from conversations with N. And as 
theres a dispute about exactly what was said, without documentary confirmation Im unable 
to say which party is correct in its recollection. Its by no means unusual for parties to the 
same conversation to leave with different understandings as to what had been agreed.
Looking at what documentary information I do have, Im able to say that the Final Certificate 
of Approval was issued by J. And it relates to the work described in the initial notice, again 
describing it as a Conservatory Solid Roof Conversion.  So J is confirming that the works 
had been carried out in accordance with the initial notice and the relevant regulations.
Mrs D has informed that she was told by Js surveyor that hed been pressurised into issuing 
this approval against his will. Im not doubting what Mrs D says she was told. But that 
doesnt mean that what Mrs D was told was necessarily a true account of what had 
happened.Like many whose role it is to apply regulatory standards, a professional building inspector 
might from time to time be expected to come under some pressure from those whose works 
are being inspected. But Id expect anyone holding such a responsible position to maintain 
professional standards and only issue Certificates of Approval where that was justified.
The fact remains that J signed the required Certificate of Approval. And this was consistent 
with what was contained in the original notice of application. I cant go behind what is an 
official document which remains valid until its shown otherwise. 
In my opinion, theres no information which is sufficient to show that N did other than carry 
out the work for which it had been contracted. Or that any extra building or planning 
consents which might later have been required arose from any breach of contract. 
N would not be concerned with what ongoing use Mrs D intended to make of the area after 
completion. In my opinion, it was contracted to supply a replacement roof for a conservatory 
along with some ancillary work. And that it completed the work to which the fixed-sum loan 
agreement related.
On a balance of probabilities, I find that Hitachi was fair in concluding that on the information 
it had available - which included the Final Certificate of Approval - that N had not been in 
breach of contract such as to impose a liability upon Hitachi. I cant see why  if the intention 
was to create a kitchen area in addition to replacing the roof  that this wasnt expressly 
stated on the agreement. And a further opportunity to clarify this issue  if any were needed - 
arose in May when a revised contract was agreed.
The application and the fee for the retrospective planning application post-dated the 
Certificate of Approval which J had authorised. I dont consider that Hitachi is liable to refund 
the cost of this later planning application. I find that it probably arose from issues which 
Hitachi didnt finance. It follows that it wouldnt be liable for additional costs arising from any 
delay in that planning process being completed.
In summary, I find that it was fair and reasonable for Hitachi to decide that it had financed 
simply a conservatory roof replacement and works ancillary to that purpose. It was entitled to 
conclude on the basis of the Certificate of Approval issued by J that this work had been 
carried out in accordance with the relevant regulations.
Whilst I empathise with Mrs D, I find that it was reasonable for Hitachi to conclude that 
thered been no misrepresentation or breach of contract for which it was liable within the 
terms of Section 75. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman