DRN-2627667
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that, because they were given incorrect information by 
Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited, they havent paid enough towards their mortgage to clear 
the balance by the end of the mortgage term.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs R want Quilter to put them back in the position theyd 
have been in if the mistake hadnt been made.
 
What happened
Quilter has accepted its made an error, so I dont need to set out all the details of what 
happened in order to determine who is at fault. Instead I will summarise matters briefly.
Mr and Mrs R had an interest-only mortgage taken out in 2008 on the advice of Quilter. This 
was on a lifetime tracker of 0.38% above Bank of England Base Rate. For the first three 
years of the mortgage an early repayment charge (ERC) applied, although the mortgage did 
allow overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance during the ERC period. After 
that, they could make overpayments without incurring an ERC.
After the ERC period expired in 2011, Mr and Mrs R regularly reviewed their mortgage with 
Quilter, usually on an annual basis. They wanted to make overpayments in order to pay off 
the mortgage by 2024, as if it was a capital repayment mortgage. 
Although Quilter had suggested moving to a capital repayment mortgage, Mr and Mrs R 
wanted to keep their existing product. This was understandable, given that it was a lifetime 
tracker. Whilst Bank of England Base Rate remained low, it made sense to stay on the 
current product and make overpayments instead of switching to a new product.
Unfortunately Quilter quoted incorrect figures to Mr and Mrs R, which meant they werent 
paying off enough capital to repay their mortgage on their chosen schedule. This came to 
light after Mr and Mrs R received their 2019 mortgage statement. 
Mr and Mrs R complained to Quilter, which upheld the complaint and offered compensation 
of £1,000. Dissatisfied with this offer, Mr and Mrs R complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, where an investigator looked at the complaint.
Initially he asked Quilter to cover the difference in repayments from the date the incorrect 
advice was given until the projected end of the mortgage term in 2024  an amount of over 
£10,000. He also asked Quilter to pay £250 compensation Quilter didnt think this was a fair 
outcome. 
After reviewing the complaint again with senior colleagues, the investigator thought Quilter 
should cover the difference in actual payments and what should have been paid up to July 
2019. Quilter agreed to do this. The total calculation, including interest, was £3,407.07. (I 
wont set out the details of the calculation, as this has been detailed in correspondence.)
Quilter also agreed to pay the compensation of £1,000 and the investigator thought this was 
fair. But Quilter pointed out that, during the period when it had quoted a figure of just under 
£100 lower than should have been paid, Mr R was able to save £100 into an ISA, from May 
2010, from which he withdrew almost £10,500 in July 2016. 
Quilter also said Mr R had started saving £100 per month again in February 2017, when 
stopped in August 2019 when he withdrew just over £3,000. Quilter says that, although it 
accepts it made a mistake, it is clear that Mr and Mrs R have had some benefit from the 
funds they would otherwise have had to pay towards the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsmans 
review. Theyve reiterated their previous arguments, but are disappointed that the initial 
award recommended by the investigator of over £10,000 has now been reduced to £3,407. 
They say they were making payments recommended by Quilter in the express belief that the 
mortgage would be repaid by 2024.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to decide if Quilter has made a mistake; its accepted by all parties that Quilter 
gave Mr and Mrs R incorrect information about how much theyd need to pay to clear the 
capital balance of their mortgage by the end of the term. Consequently, Mr and Mrs R didnt 
pay as much as they needed to. This is called underfunding.
We have an established approach to underfunding. When it happens because of a business 
error, well usually tell the business to compensate the customer by crediting the mortgage 
account with the money that should have been paid in if the borrower had been paying the 
right amount. 
If the mistake is made by a lender, its relatively easy to tell a lender to re-work a mortgage 
account to reflect the lower balance that would exist if it had been set up correctly and the 
right level of payments made. Its a little more complex when the error was made by a third 
party. A third party cant reduce a customers mortgage account, but what it can do is pay 
them the necessary sum of money which they can pay to their mortgage account if they wish 
to.
 
Putting things right
Ive reviewed the calculation of the underfunding to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. Im satisfied 
that the offer of compensation of £3,407.07 is sufficient to put Mr and Mrs R back in the 
position theyd have been in with regard to capital balance and interest as at July 2019, if 
theyd paid the correct amount of overpayment each month rather than the incorrect amount 
Quilter told them they needed to pay. 
Im also satisfied, from the information Quilter has given us about the amount Mr R was 
putting into savings, that Mr and Mrs R would have been able to make the correct 
repayments if theyd known they needed to.
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs R have said, but Im not persuaded that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for Quilter to fund the different in payments to the end of the mortgage term. Thats because, once Mr and Mrs R knew they were paying too little (in July 2019), they 
were then at the point where it was reasonable to expect them to begin making the correct 
payments. 
Repayments from July 2019 will increase from what Mr and Mrs R were paying before, 
because they were paying too little. And if Mr and Mrs R hadnt already begun making 
increased payments from July 2019, then they themselves will need to absorb any additional 
amount they will need to pay going forward in order to clear their mortgage before the end 
date. 
In addition, if they dont pay the compensation awarded towards reduction of their mortgage 
capital balance, then their repayments will be calculated on the full capital balance 
outstanding. If they accept my final decision, it is, of course, entirely up to Mr and Mrs R 
what they do with the compensation. But if they dont use it to reduce their capital balance, 
then this will affect the amount they have to pay each month to reduce the capital balance by 
the end date. 
Occasionally we might say the business can deduct from the compensation the amount the 
customer has saved by not making the higher payments, but most times we dont. Thats 
because generally the customer didnt realise they were under-paying, and the money 
theyve saved has been absorbed into their day-to-day budget. Instead, well typically say 
that the historic saving should take the place of an award of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. As Ive said above, Mr R was able to put money into savings, so there has 
been some benefit to him and Mrs R. 
In addition, we dont normally award compensation for distress and inconvenience in cases 
of this type. We have to keep in mind the saving the consumer has made from not having 
made the higher payment, even though they werent aware of it at the time. But Quilter 
previously offered to pay £1,000 compensation for trouble and upset, and has agreed to 
honour this. In the circumstances, I wont deduct this amount from the redress Quilter has 
offered to pay to put the mortgage back on track as at July 2019.
Overall, Im satisfied the award of compensation offered is fair and reasonable. It puts 
Mr and Mrs R back in the position theyd have been in if theyd paid the correct amount up 
until July 2019. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R may not want to ask Quilter to tell them how much 
they need to pay going forward to clear their capital balance by the end day. However, Mr 
and Mrs Rs lender should be able to provide them with this information.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that in full and final settlement of this complaint, Quilter Mortgage 
Planning Limited must pay compensation to Mr and Mrs R of £3,407.07 for the underfunding 
of their mortgage, plus £1,000 for trouble and upset. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jan O'LearyOmbudsman