DRN-1665804
 
The complaint
Dr T complains about missing payments that he says have not been credited to his account 
with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Dr T has an account with Barclays where he regularly receives deposits from an employer. 
In mid 2019 Dr T noticed that some payments he was expecting between April 2017 
to December 2018 hadn't been credited to his account, so he complained to Barclays.
Barclays investigated the missing payments and this took some time. This frustrated Dr T 
as he contacted Barclays several ways, and some post he sent went missing. Barclays 
apologised for the poor service and offered £100 to apologise for any inconvenience, which 
Dr T didn't accept. 
About the missing payments Barclays looked at Dr T's account but said they hadn't been 
received. Barclays told Dr T that he should ask the sender to put a trace on the funds from 
their end. Dr T remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the problem. He thought Barclays couldn't do much 
more to locate the payments. He explained that it's usually the sender who traces missing 
payment so Dr T might want to get the sender of the payments to trace them. He also 
gave Dr T the option of providing him with the sort code and account number of the sender 
which could be passed along to Barclays to help trace the payments. Dr T didn't accept this 
resolution so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is not to decide if the payments are indeed missing, or to find them. My role 
is to decide if I think Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably when investigating 
Dr T's complaint. And looking at what's happened, I'm satisfied they have. 
There were some delays when dealing with Dr T's complaint and Barclays has offered £100 
to apologise for this. Dr T says he wrote to Barclays, but unfortunately they can't find any 
trace of this letter. In May 2019 Barclays says Dr T called them about the problem. They 
asked him to write and provide evidence so they could look into it further. Barclays say Dr T 
contacted them again in August 2019 about the problem. It then took some time to look into 
the complaint, and Barclays sent Dr T update letters explaining the delay.
In November 2019 Barclays provided their response to the complaint. They offered £100 for 
the poor service and delays. Looking at what happened I'm satisfied this is a reasonable 
amount for the customer service Dr T received. Dr T wants Barclays to increase this amount and pay him the value of the missing payments, however I don't think it wouldn't be fair of 
me to ask Barclays to do this.
Barclays told Dr T he should contact the sender to put a trace on the funds from their end. 
This is a reasonable recommendation to make. Barclays couldn't find the payments so 
tracing them from the sender makes sense, and it's the usual thing to do in a situation like 
this. Our investigator offered the same advice.
Dr T provided Barclays screen shots of the payroll system from his employer showing the 
missing payments. This information isn't enough for Barclays, or us, to trace the payments. 
Our investigator told Dr T that if he provided the sort code and account number of where the 
money was sent from he would pass this to Barclays to help trace the missing payments. 
This information hasn't been provided.
It's clear this matter is very important to Dr T and it's quite a lot of money he says is missing. 
I can understand Dr T's frustration with this, however I'm satisfied Barclays have done their 
best to look into the problem. They've also offered advice on how else it might be 
investigated, so I'm not asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Dr T £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman