DRN-4153664
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Investment Solutions Limited (Barclays) delayed crediting an 
interest payment he was owed to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and about the 
service he received. 
What happened
Mr C held a bond (with a provider I shall call N) within his Barclays Smart Investor SIPP. 
The bond paid Mr C half yearly interest payments. The bond matured on 30 July 2021 and 
was redeemed shortly after. An interest payment on the bond of £3,717.17 was due to be 
made to the SIPP on 31 July 2021. 
On checking his account in December 2021, Mr C noticed that the interest payment that he 
expected on 31 July 2021 hadnt been credited so he contacted Barclays to report it was 
missing. Hearing nothing from Barclays about the missing payment, Mr C chased Barclays 
by phone and by online chat on 5 January 2022, 19 January 2022 and 31 January 2022. Call 
backs were promised but never happened. 
On 8 February 2022 Mr C complained to Barclays, following this up on 14 February 2022, 
25 February 2022, 1 March and 15 March 2022. During a telephone call between Mr C and 
Barclays around this time it advised him that it had returned the payment to N in mid-August 
2022 and had not yet been able to successfully recover it.
Barclays issued its final response letter to Mr Cs complaint on 13 April 2022 but didnt think 
it had done anything wrong. It said to Mr C that it had initially received multiple payments in 
July 2021 containing only Ns name by way of a reference. It went on to say that it held 
multiple bonds from N on its platform and that it had been unable to identify which payment 
related to which (individual) bond. It also said there was no correlation between some of the 
payments and the bonds held. Barclays said it had queried this with the paying agent/Ns 
registrar (who I shall refer to as S) but received no response. 
Barclays went on to say that as it had been unable to comply with the CASS regulations to 
apply the payments within 10 business days of receipt it was under an obligation to return 
the funds to the remitter, which it did. Barclays also said that it was working to have the 
funds returned along with confirmation of which bonds they related to. It said it was having 
difficulty getting a response. 
Unhappy with Barclays response to his complaint, Mr C complained to this service. Shortly 
after doing so Barclays agreed to add the missing interest payment of £3,717.17 to Mr Cs 
SIPP and to pursue Ns registrar (S) for reimbursement. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended it was upheld. He thought 
Barclays hadnt done enough to locate the missing interest payment or to resolve the issue 
for Mr C. He also thought that Barclays hadnt kept Mr C adequately informed about its 
efforts to try and get the payment made and had that it had provided poor customer service. 
Our Investigator said that Mr C would have invested the interest had he received it on time 
so he recommended Barclays work out if Mr C had suffered a loss and to compensate him if 
he had.
Barclays replied to our Investigators findings by sending us a previously provided 
screenshot which showed its platform provider (who I shall refer to as F) chasing S for the 
payment. Barclays also repeated some comments it had made previously about the original 
payment not carrying the correct market identifier and the fact it had tried in the 10 business 
days after receipt to identify the funds without success. 
Our (new) Investigator thought about what Barclays had said but wasnt persuaded to 
change her mind. She said Barclays, as the SIPP provider, was responsible for the actions 
of the third parties it engaged to provide the services and products it supplied to Mr C.
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Interest payment
Its not in dispute that Barclays received Mr Cs interest payment of £3,717.17 from S on 
31 July 2022. From what Barclays has said, it appears that this was one of a number of 
payments from N containing no other identifier save that it came from N. Barclays has also 
said it returned all the unidentifiable payments it had received from S (on behalf of N) within 
10 business days as required by the CASS rules having tried in the interim to get the 
identifier information it needed. 
Ive seen a number of emails form F to S, including one asking for information about a 
transaction with a specific reference number. Others include requests from F to S asking it to 
remit the monies again so it could allocate them to its clients. Rather unhelpfully, all of the 
emails are undated.
S, however, has provided a timeline of events. From that I can see that S received emails 
from F on 3rd, 11th and 12th August 2021 asking for details about the payments it had 
received. 
S also refers to a number of chaser emails it received from F after the funds were returned. 
And S notes that on 16 August 2021 it replied to F providing the information regarding the 
payments from N that F had requested. Having provided that information to F however, S 
has said it heard nothing else from F until 12 April 2022 when F contacted S to complain that 
it had ignored Fs previous emails and to ask it to reissue the returned payment. S has said 
that it responded to Fs email on 21 April 2022 and asked it to provide bank details for where 
it should reissue the payment to. S received no reply to its email. 
On 5 May 2022 S said that F emailed it again to complain. On 11 May 2022 S advised F that 
the payment of £3,717.17 remained outstanding and that it required a £63 administration fee 
to issue it again. S has said that F did not reply and that it next heard from F on 12 October 
2022 when it asked S to reissue the payment. F provided bank details and confirmed that 
the fee could be deducted from the payment. 
Barclays credited Mr Cs account with £3,717.17 on 13 October 2022. 
S issued the payment to F, less the administration fee, on 4 November 2022. F is acting as an agent on behalf of Barclays; that means that Barclays is responsible for Fs 
actions and any errors and omissions it makes. The omission of any identifier for the 
payments S made on behalf of N is clearly not the fault of F/Barclays. And I can see from Ss 
timeline of events that F was proactively chasing the identifier information it needed from S 
up to the point that it was required by the CASS rules to return the payment to N. So Im 
satisfied that Barclays, through F, chased N/S for identifiers before it sent the funds back 
and I think Barclays/Fs actions up to that point were reasonable.
Thereafter however, I think F, acting on behalf of Barclays, could have been proactive in 
making sure S made the payment and that it was passed on to Mr C. I say that because Ss 
timeline says on 16 August 2021 it gave F the information regarding the payments from N 
that F had requested. Having provided that information to F however, S has said it heard 
nothing else from F until 8 months later on 12 April 2022. As it appears that F had the 
information required to make sure S remitted the funds and to make the payment to Mr C by 
mid-August 2021, it is unclear why that didnt happen. Even if for some reason F didnt 
receive the information from S that it claims to have sent, I dont think its reasonable for 
F/Barclays to have done nothing about getting the funds remitted again until April 2022, 
which is presumably when it was prompted to do so on account of Mr Cs complaint. 
I can see from the online chats between Barclays and Mr C in the early part of 2022 that the 
issue of his payment was raised internally by Barclays to its corporate action team. Barclays 
told Mr C it was investigating the issue and was liaising with the issuer (presumably N/S). 
But theres no record of what the outcome of that investigation was. Indeed in the FRL 
Barclays tells Mr C that it was working to have the funds reissued to it along with the 
necessary identifier information but that it was having difficulty getting responses, although it 
doesnt say from whom. But that statement is in contrast to Ss version of events in its 
timeline when it said that it provided that information to F on 16 August 2021. 
I dont know why F didnt act on that information when it received it from S in August 2021. 
And I dont know why the matter wasnt followed up by Barclays/F and was left to Mr C to 
raise. But I think Barclays is at fault for not ensuring the payment was made to Mr C in a 
timely manner and for the omissions of its platform provider F in relation to the whole matter. 
Whilst Barclays may have been unable to allocate the payment to Mr Cs SIPP at the time it 
was due, it has a duty of care to ensure all its customers receive the payments they are 
entitled to. However, Ive not seen any evidence that Barclays provided Mr C with the level of 
service he could reasonably expect. Indeed, Barclays left it to him to identify that the 
payment was missing. Barclays/Fs errors in not pursuing the payment, or acting in a timely 
manner once S had provided it with the identifier information F had requested in August 
2022, meant Mr C was without the amount of interest he was due for about 15 months. Mr C 
has explained that, had he received the interest payment when he should, it would have 
been invested in his SIPP. 
Customer service
From the events Ive described above I think its clear that there were shortcomings in the 
customer service Mr C received from Barclays/F after it returned the funds to N/S in the first 
half of August 2021. It appears to me from what S has said that it provided the identifier 
information requested by F in August 2021. There then followed what appears to me to be 
an unacceptable eight-month delay before Barclays/F again contacted S about remitting the 
funds along with a further five-month period of delay between 11 May 2022 and 12 October 
2022. There is no evidence of any pro-active steps being taken by Barclays/F during either 
of these periods. And Ive not seen any explanation for why they occurred. I dont think thats 
a fair and reasonable way to treat Mr C. I can also see that once Mr C raised the issue of the missing interest payment with Barclays 
on 29 December 2021, further shortcomings in service followed. Call backs (possibly save 
for one, but even that is in dispute) were not made and promised responses not actioned. 
And Barclays left it to Mr C to contact it on numerous occasions in an attempt to force a 
resolution to the issue. I cant see that Barclays was proactive in trying to contact Mr C at all 
and I think, in the circumstances, it should have been. 
In the end I can see that Barclays paid Mr C £3,717.17 on 13 October 2022 without the 
monies yet being remitted by S/N. I think it could and should have done this for him much 
sooner. It could have then pursued S/N for the funds without Mr C being left out of pocket. 
Im not persuaded in any event  given the testimony provided by S that it gave F the 
information Barclays/F needed on 16 August 2021  that Barclays wasnt in possession of all 
the information it needed to apply the payment to Mr Cs SIPP shortly after it was due. 
Where a financial business, through its words and deeds, causes trouble and upset to a 
consumer above and beyond that which is normally associated with the business being 
transacted between them then this Service can require it pay the consumer compensation. 
Ive set out here in some detail the shortcomings in the levels of service Mr C received from 
Barclays and its agents and I think they caused him inconvenience. It was left to Mr C to 
identify that the payment was missing. Barclays also failed to respond to Mr Cs repeated 
requests to resolve the matter as well as being responsible for two very lengthy periods of 
inactivity. In the circumstances I agree with our Investigator that Barclays should pay 
compensation of £300 to Mr C for the trouble the shortcomings in its service caused him. 
Summary
Barclays, as the SIPP provider, is ultimately responsible for the actions of the agents it 
engages to provide the products and services it supplies to its customers. I dont think its fair 
or reasonable for Barclays to endeavour to disassociate itself with the actions of the agents 
acting on its behalf. I think it should fairly and reasonably have resolved the issue with 
Mr Cs interest payment much sooner and then sought to recover the sums it was due from 
any other third parties. As a consequence of Barclays errors, Mr C was left without his 
interest payment and was unable to invest it in his SIPP. So I think Barclays should 
compensate Mr C for any loss he may have incurred as a consequence. 
I also think that Barclays customer service fell short of the levels that Mr C could reasonably 
expect of it for which I think that compensation of £300 is fairly and reasonably due to Mr C.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as far as possible in 
the position he would be in but for the delay in the crediting of his interest payment. I think 
that Mr C would have invested the payment sooner and whilst its not possible to say what 
precisely he would have done, I think that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. 
What should Barclays do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Barclays should:
Compare the value of the delayed interest payment due to Mr Cs investment with 
that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, 
there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, no compensation is payable. 
If there is a loss, Barclays should pay into Mr Cs SIPP, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of any charges and any available tax relief. Barclays shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. 
If Barclays is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Cs SIPP, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after the compensation 
is paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition, for the reasons Ive given above, Barclays should pay Mr C 
compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset it caused him. 
Barclays should provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple 
format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Barclays considers that its required by 
HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off and 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so that he can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Nationwide 
Building 
Society 
3.875% 
bond 
(13436101
0.XLON.G
B)No longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds31 July 202113 October 
20228% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means the actual amount paid at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Barclays should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr C would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to its 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, then 
clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data/Quoted household rate/Deposit rates  Fixed rate 
bonds/1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/business/resolving-
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, 
type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Investment Solutions 
Limited to take the steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman