DRN-3131546
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions she says she did not make 
and does not recognise.
What happened
Ms M is disputing three transactions all made to the same electronic money institution, which 
Ill refer to as W. 
Date Amount Type of payment 
25/8/2020 £1,200 Electronic using card 
details verified by 3DS 
Secure
29/9/2020 £1,000 Cash paid in
£400 Cash paid in
£500 Cash paid in
£3,000 Credit card cash advance 
deposit 
30/9/2020 £4,313 Open Banking faster 
payment  initiated using 
third party provider W
1/10/2020 £795 Open Banking faster 
payment  initiated using 
third party provider W
Ms M first raised concerns about the transactions to Santander on 4 January 2021. Shes 
explained she was unable to raise them any sooner as shed been going through a difficult 
time in her personal life after being unwell and suffering a bereavement.
Ms M told Santander that around the time the disputed transactions happened she was very 
ill and receiving support from carers as well as family and friends. She said she allowed 
them access to her phone to be able to call the hospital. She said that no one else knows 
her online banking security information. Ms M told the bank that her family would not have 
made these transactions. 
Santander then asked Ms M to contact her mobile phone network. She did so, but the phone 
network was unable to confirm if her device had been compromised.
Santander declined Ms Ms fraud claim. It said it was not clear how someone else could 
have known Ms Ms online banking details or accessed the one-time passcodes that were 
sent to her registered mobile phone number to authenticate the payment requests. 
It pointed out the IP address recorded for the disputed faster payments is the same one 
Ms M usually uses to log into online banking.
Ms M was unhappy with how the banks investigation had been handled. Santander issued 
its final response on 17 March 2021. The bank said it had investigated further but still could 
not find any evidence to support that Ms Ms security details had been compromised. 
Ms M referred her complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into it but did not 
recommend it should be upheld. He concluded it was more likely than not that Ms M had 
authorised the disputed transactions as he couldnt see how it would have been possible for 
someone else to have made them. 
Ms M responded to say that she was offended by the speculation that she was somehow 
involved or responsible. She felt the outcome was unfair and unjust. She provided an extract 
from industry guidance suggesting that suspicious transactions should have triggered some 
form of interaction from the bank. She also provided a link to a newspaper article about 
reimbursement for victims of authorised push payment scams in support of her case.
As no agreement could be reached, Ms Ms complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
My further investigation
 
When the complaint was referred to me, I undertook some further investigation to clarify 
Ms Ms response. 
I contacted her and explained that I understood her complaint to be about three payments 
made to W that she did not recognise and was not involved in making. I explained that if this 
is correct, the payments in dispute are not scam payments and the newspaper article shed 
referred to would not be relevant to her complaint. 
Ms M responded to let me know that as far as she was aware the transactions happened 
because her phone or her phone number was compromised.
I also contacted W. I found out the disputed funds went into an account Ms M holds with W. 
From there, the funds were all sent to the same recipient. W said other transfers had been 
made to the same recipient and no concerns had been raised about any of the payments. 
The reference for the payments appeared to be in connection to a regular payment for a 
household bill.
I asked Ms M about the account with W and whether she recognised the payments. Ms M 
responded to say that she had used W in the past but not for the payments she was 
disputing. She did not comment on what Id said about the funds appearing connected to a 
household bill. She said she suspected two people that could have been involved but that 
had not come to anything and confirmed she had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In cases when it is not clear what happened, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence.
Theres lot of money involved in this dispute so I can understand why Ms M is concerned. 
But having considered everything thats been said and provided, I think Santander can fairly 
hold Ms M liable for the disputed transactions. I will explain why. Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Ms M made the disputed transactions herself or 
authorised for them to be made on her behalf, it would not be fair to ask Santander to refund 
them. But Ms M says she was not involved in the payments in dispute.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence and records that payment tools that were 
issued to Ms M (such as one time passcodes sent to her registered mobile phone number 
and other personalised security features) were used to make the disputed transactions. But 
the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Santander 
to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Ms M consented to the payments being made using her payment tools.
Some of the background information to this complaint isnt as clear as it might be. This is 
understandable as Ms M has explained she was very ill and under a lot of stress at the times 
the disputed transactions happened. She has told me that as far as she is aware, they 
happened because her phone or phone number was compromised.  
Ive considered the options for whats most likely to have happened. These are that the 
withdrawals could have been made by an unknown third party, by someone known to Ms M, 
or by Ms M herself. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to 
conclude that Ms M authorised the transactions. This is because:
The pattern of spending doesnt fit that of an unknown third-party fraudster. There is 
a significant gap of just over a month between the first transaction and the second 
transaction. It seems unlikely that an opportunistic fraudster would wait so long to 
use an account again if they had access to it. I think an opportunistic fraudster would 
want to gain as much benefit as they could and as quickly as they could before the 
fraud is detected.
Im also mindful that the funds were all paid into an account Ms M holds with W. But 
I dont think an opportunistic fraudster or someone known to Ms M would want to do 
this. It creates an extra barrier for them to be able to utilise the funds as they would 
also need to have access to Ms Ms account held with W. They are unlikely to 
deliberately involve another financial institution and risk the fraud being detected. 
Ms M has explained that her phone or phone number has been compromised in 
some way. Ms Ms phone network was not able to confirm whether this had 
happened. But in any event, a third-party having access to Ms Ms phone number on 
its own would not have been enough to enable someone else to carry out these 
transactions. To make the transactions required more information than just the one-
time passcodes that were sent to Ms Ms mobile number. Whoever made the 
transactions would have also needed additional personalised security information 
including Ms Ms card number and details and Ms Ms log in details for both her 
Santander account and her account held with W. Ms M has said that no-one else 
knows this personalised security information. Ive not seen anything that explains 
how someone else could have accessed this information. 
Im also mindful that the day before one of the disputed payments happened, there 
were cash deposits into Ms Ms account along with a cash advance from her credit 
card. Ms M has not disputed that she made this cash advance from her credit card. It 
seems more likely than not that Ms M was getting money together for a specific 
purpose, especially as the amount of money deposited is very close to the amount 
transferred to W around the same time. I cannot ignore the information I received directly from W. It told us Ms Ms account at 
W has been used to make regular payments to the same payee. The reference 
added to the payments appears to relate to a regular household commitment. Im not 
persuaded a third party would derive any benefit from making this payment. 
Overall
Having considered everything, all of the available evidence points to it being more likely than 
not that Ms M made the transactions herself. I realise that is a very difficult message to give, 
but that is what the available evidence leads me to believe here.  This means that Ms M can 
be held responsible for them. As such, I cannot fairly and reasonably require Santander to 
take any further action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman