DRN-1460691
Complaint
This complaint is about the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has paid to 
Mr L in respect of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). Mr L would like BoS to 
refund him ten times the premiums he paid.
Background
Mr L took out a mortgage with BoS in 2003 and was sold a Total Mortgage Protection 
Policy (TMPP) in connection with this mortgage. The TMPP consisted of PPI, Life and 
Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr L complained to BoS about being mis-sold the PPI element of the policy. Initially (April 
2019) BoS didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but provided Mr L with a refund in respect of 
the commission and profit share. This was for a sum of £344.38.
However, BoS changed its view about the mis-sale and on 20 June 2019, BoS wrote again 
to Mr L, this time upholding Mr Ls mis-sale complaint.  In doing so it refunded Mr L the 
premiums that he had paid in respect of PPI  BoS calculated this to be £3514.53 (plus 8% 
interest). 
Mr L didnt agree with BoS offer or the way in which BoS had dealt with his complaint. He 
says he was stressed by BoS providing two different answers to his complaint which he 
describes as inadequate and unprofessional. He says he should receive 10 times the 
amount he paid in premiums.
Our adjudicator looked at the offer and he thought it was fair. However, Mr L wanted an 
ombudsman to review his complaint and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr L has made some specific comments regarding the actual mis-sale, 
particularly with regards to the response provided by BoS in April 2019. However, I dont 
now need to consider how PPI was sold to Mr L  thats because the parties already agree 
that it was mis-sold. What Im looking at is whether BoS has done enough to put things right 
for Mr L. 
Ive considered with care all of the information the parties have sent to us. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr L. But taking account of all the evidence before me, Ive decided that the offer 
BoS made to settle his complaint was fair. Ill explain why below. 
When a business makes an offer to settle a PPI mis-sale complaint, as far as possible, I 
would expect it to put the consumer back in the position they would be in if the PPI hadnt 
ever been sold to them. For regular premium PPI  such as that taken out with this mortgage, a business must 
refund all of the PPI premiums that were charged to the account. In addition, a business will 
need to add simple interest (in this case at a rate of 8%) to each payment from when the 
consumer paid it until they get it back. This is to compensate a consumer for the time theyve 
been out of pocket because of the PPI. 
Ive looked at the way BoS calculated Mr Ls refund and it is in line with what Id expect to 
see. 
First of all I can see that it has calculated the amount of premiums Mr L paid for PPI. I 
appreciate that there was some confusion in respect of the total amount of premiums paid. In 
July 2019, BoS informed Mr L that he had paid a total of £4427.93 in premiums. However, 
the total amount of premiums in the refund calculations is £3514.53. The reason for the 
difference in the two premium amounts is because in July 2019 Mr L was provided with the 
amount he had paid in total for the TMPP policy  this included the premiums paid towards 
Life and CIC as well as PPI. However, as Mr Ls complaint to BoS was only in respect of the 
PPI element, the refund of premiums paid was limited to the premiums paid towards PPI  
this was £3514.53. 
I can also see that BoS has calculated 8% simple interest to compensate Mr L for being out 
of pocket because of the PPI. 
From this, BoS has deducted the amount it has already paid to Mr L in relation to the 
commission part of the complaint. I think this is fair because if it hadnt deducted this then Mr 
L would have been compensated twice in respect of the commission. This is because a full 
refund of premiums also includes commission and profit share  so it includes the amount 
which BoS has already refunded Mr L. 
BoS is required by HMRC to deduct 20% in tax for the interest paid on the premiums and 
this is what it appears to have done when calculating the amount of refund due to Mr L. The 
total Mr L received by way of redress was £4689.22. 
So based on what Ive seen, I think the way that BoS has calculated the PPI refund is fair. I 
appreciate Mr L feels he deserves more. However, even though BoS didnt initially uphold 
 Mr Ls complaint, it reviewed its own decision and then decided to uphold it (this was even 
before our involvement) and calculated the refund in the way we would have expected it to. 
So I dont think BoS needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman