DRN-1239261
 
The complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in October 2001.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In March 1996 Mr H opened an account while he was shopping. In October 2001, PPI was 
added to his account following a telephone call. The policy was cancelled in August 2005.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Mr H owed on his store card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr H couldnt work 
because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording. It also hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of the call script used at the time. So, I dont know what it may 
have said to Mr H when the policy was sold. But based on what I do know of the sales 
process and given the fact that PPI was added several years after the account was opened, 
I think Mr H would have understood the policy was optional and that he chose to take it. And 
it certainly cant have been a condition of being granted credit  hed had the account for 
more than five years already.
And the premiums for the policy wouldve appeared on his statements  so if he hadnt 
agreed to the policy, or it had been added without either his knowledge or his consent, I think 
its reasonable to say he wouldve queried the premiums shortly after the policy was added. 
So taking all this into consideration, I think Mr H knew the policy was optional and chose to 
purchase it because he saw some value in it in 2001.
I dont think AXA advised Mr H to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for him, but it still had to provide him with clear information about 
the policy so he could decide if he wanted to take it out - I cant say that AXA did this.
As Ive explained, I dont know exactly what information Mr H received about the policy at the 
time of sale. Even if I accept that he wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont think this wouldve affected him decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.
Mr H was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for him to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition  he told us he was employed and in good health. Mr H says 
he wouldve received some sick pay if he was away from work due to illness. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Hs employment benefits so could have proved useful 
to Mr H if he had an accident, became ill or lost his job. He could also have benefitted from 
purchase protection and the additional life cover.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mr H to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But taking everything into account, I think if Mr H 
had properly understood the cost and benefit provided, he wouldve thought the policy 
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance 
was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, Im not satisfied that AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to Mr H. 
But I think he knew he had a choice about taking the PPI and I think he would still have 
taken out the cover if hed been properly informed about it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments, but these do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman