DRN-2522920
The complaint
Mr B and Ms Bs complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to a delay by 
Santander, in crediting their account with a CHAPS payment, resulting they believe in a 
significant loss.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the evidence I am satisfied that when the CHAPS payment was first made (25 
February 2020) the wrong name was used in the transfer. That was not the fault of 
Santander.
I am also satisfied that Mr B and Ms B were told by Santander that the fact the name 
was wrong would not matter and the funds would be transferred. I accept that was 
incorrect advice.
The funds were returned to the sending bank and resubmitted with correct details (27 
February 2020) and credited to Mr B and Ms Bs account on 2 March 2020.
I am satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to conduct further checks in line 
with their banking and regulatory requirements, in respect of the CHAPS payment 
before crediting the sum transferred to Mr B and Ms Bs account.
I recognise the frustration and annoyance Mr B and Ms B undoubtedly experienced when 
the transfer of funds did not materialise as expected. 
This problem arose because of an error by the sending bank or the sender, in providing the 
incorrect account name, not as a result of anything Santander did or did not do. Santanders 
error was in providing the incorrect information to Mr B and Ms B about the effect of the mis-
stated name upon the transfer.
Had Santander provided the correct advice, the position Mr B and Ms B were in would not 
have changed. The further checks would still have been required, thus delaying the process. 
The length of time to carry out the additional checks following the resubmission of the funds 
is entirely reasonable in my view.  
This means any losses Mr B and Ms B feel they may have, were not caused by Santander. 
Santander have accepted that incorrect advice had been given on a number of occasions by 
their staff. Its payment of £250 in compensation was to reflect this overall reduction in the 
level of service Mr B and Ms B received when trying to resolve this issue. 
Ive given the issue of the correct level of compensation further thought; when this service 
considers levels of compensation we take into account a variety of factors, including the 
trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. The awards we 
make can be categorised within the brackets of modest, substantial, severe or extreme, and 
examples of these can be found on our website. 
Looking at the evidence provided and considering the impact of Santanders error on Mr B 
and Ms B, it seems to me that in this case an award should fall within the bracket of 
moderate. I do therefore think that £250 is a fair and reasonable recompense.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already paid Mr B and Ms B £250 to settle this complaint, and I think 
that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman