DRN-3160563
The complaint
Mr N complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has registered a marker about him at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr N says he has found out that when NatWest closed his account in April 2016 it had 
registered the marker. He says he hasnt been involved in any fraud. And that this is 
preventing him getting other financial products.
NatWest said it hadnt made a mistake in adding the marker. Mr N had received fraudulent 
funds into his account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that Mr N had 
given different explanations of what had happened. NatWest had noted that when it spoke to 
him in 2016 he had said that the money was from family and that he had withdrawn it. When 
he referred his complaint to this service he had told a different investigator that he had been 
scammed. And that he had been persuaded to let his account be used and he expected to 
get some quick money. He didnt know it was fraud and he was only 15 at the time. But hed 
told her when she was investigating this in November 2021 that his card had been stolen 
and his PIN must have been guessed and his account used. He knew nothing about this. 
She didnt think he had given a plausible account of what happened, and she was satisfied 
NatWest had grounds to add the CIFAS marker.
Mr N didnt agree. He said that he wanted an ombudsman to review this. He meant to say 
his card was stolen and the person hed spoken to probably thought hed handed it over for a 
money flip. He had no idea that this was fraud and the most recent information hed given to 
this service was correct. What hed said before was a mistake. He was scammed and the 
investigators colleague who said that hed given information over was misinformed. He was 
trying to explain how people do this. Mr N said he was innocent, and he wanted his case to 
be heard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Ive read the case notes provided by NatWest and listened in full to recordings of calls Mr N 
had with this service. I know what he says now but Im afraid I agree that the information he 
has provided has been inconsistent. It has ranged from him saying he did recognise the 
substantial credits from relatives which I can see totalled well over £5,000 and related cash 
withdrawals to him saying he didnt at all. He clearly said to this service in February 2021 
that he allowed his account to be used even though he didnt know the reason and that he 
expected to make money. But more recently that his card was stolen. He also had a 
conversation with our investigator about whether she would tell NatWest if he said he did 
make these payments. And she rightly told him to give an honest account and that she 
wouldnt be dealing in hypothetical situations only the facts of this case.
In my view Mr N has proved to be unreliable in his account of what happened. He hasnt 
given a consistent account or a reasonable explanation of why he has given different 
accounts. I think NatWest gave him an opportunity to give an explanation at the time. And 
hes been given a full chance to explain things now. He seemed to know about how a 
money flip based on bank transfers could work. And in my view whether he had lost his 
card or not was a fundamental point. 
Ive noted that his bank account was relatively new having been opened in January 2016, 
that there were fraudulent credits paid in and that these were quickly withdrawn. Im not 
persuaded that Mr N didnt reasonably know what was happening. I consider he is fairly 
responsible for this having taken into account his age at the time and his explanations.
NatWest says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr N received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that NatWest needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ns account of events and the evidence NatWest has provided, Im 
satisfied that NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr N received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to NatWest at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- NatWest had grounds to believe that Mr N had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I understand what Mr N says about the impact of the marker on him, but I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require NatWest to do anything more.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman