DRN-3307704
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) reported adverse information to credit reference agencies, despite it 
agreeing to waive a monthly repayment. Shes also unhappy with how VWFS responded to 
her financial difficulties. 
Mrs R has been represented. But for clarity, Ive only referred to Mrs R throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mrs R acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in November 2019. 
In December 2019, Mrs R complained to VWFS as the car had a gearbox fault. In       
January 2020, she told VWFS a dealer had agreed to fix the car and provide her with 
compensation  which she said she accepted. In February 2020, Mrs R complained to 
VWFS and said she didnt think she should pay the December 2019 monthly payment owed 
under the agreement due to the gearbox fault. 
In April 2020, VWFS looked into Mrs Rs complaint and agreed to waive Mrs Rs    
December 2019 payment as a gesture of goodwill. It also said it would remove any adverse 
information it had reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). Mrs R made a further 
complaint to VWFS in December 2020 as the December 2019 payment hadnt been waived 
and the adverse information hadnt been removed from her credit file. 
VWFS issued its response to Mrs Rs complaint in January 2021. It accepted it agreed to 
waive the rental due in December 2019 following the previous complaint Mrs R had made. It 
said due to a clerical error, this wasnt actioned in time. It apologised for this and confirmed 
the amount owed for this rental had been waived. It also said it amended the adverse 
information it reported to the CRAs about the payment in December 2019. It reiterated the 
forbearance options available to Mrs R and provided different options to Mrs R to enable her 
to end her agreement. It offered Mrs R £75 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs R referred her complaint to this service in February 2021. She 
reiterated her complaint and said that she wanted VWFS to take the car back and end the 
contract. She said as a result of the adverse information reported to CRAs, she wasnt 
approved for lending for a mobile phone contract.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said because of the amount of time that had 
passed, we couldnt consider the issues that took place before April 2020. He said VWFS 
had provided Mrs R with the options she was entitled to if she wanted to end her agreement 
early. And whilst he accepted that VWFS made an error when it didnt waive the     
December 2019 payment, he thought the £250 compensation VWFS had since offered    
Mrs R was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs R disagreed and said she referred her complaint in time. She also said when she 
referred her complaint, she wasnt told she could voluntarily terminate her agreement. She 
said because VWFS had bullied her, she was now stuck. She also said she didnt think £250 
compensation was enough in the circumstances.
Ive previously issued a decision explaining why our service cant consider whether VWFS 
did enough to put things right when there was a fault with the car in December 2019, as this 
isnt in our jurisdiction. 
So this decision will only be looking at whether VWFS did enough to put things right when it 
didnt waive the repayment owed for December 2019, which caused adverse information 
being reported to Mrs Rs credit file. And how it responded to her financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs Rs 
complaint against VWFS.
What I need to decide here is whether VWFS did enough to put things right when it didnt 
waive the repayment owed for December 2019, which caused adverse information being 
reported to Mrs Rs credit file. And whether VWFS responded with forbearance and due 
consideration when Mrs R told it about her financial difficulties. If it didnt, Ill need to think 
about whats fair to put things right. 
As part of the resolution for Mrs Rs complaint she raised in December 2019, VWFS agreed 
to waive the monthly payment owed for December 2019 under her agreement. However, it 
accepts that due to a clerical error, it didnt do this until Mrs R complained in           
December 2020. It confirmed the adverse information had been removed by January 2021. 
Mrs R says as a result of the adverse information being reported to CRAs by VWFS, she 
was declined lending to take out a new mobile phone agreement. I accept this is likely to 
have caused Mrs R some distress and inconvenience. However, Mrs R hasnt provided any 
supporting information to confirm that the information reported by VWFS was the only 
reason why she was declined lending for the mobile phone agreement. So I dont think it 
would be fair to say the information reported by VWFS was the reason why Mrs R was 
declined lending for a new mobile phone agreement.
That said, VWFS did agree to remove the adverse information from Mrs Rs credit file in 
December 2019 but didnt arrange to do this until December 2020. So VWFS reported 
incorrect information to the CRAs for around a year. Having thought about this, I think the 
£250 VWFS offered Mrs R when the complaint was referred to this service is fair and 
reasonable, given Mrs R hasnt provided any supporting information to show that she was 
declined lending, as a result of this adverse information being reported to CRAs for around a 
year. So it follows that VWFS dont need to do anything further to put things right in relation 
to the adverse information reported to the CRAs.
When a lender is made aware that a customer is suffering from financial difficulties, it needs 
to treat its customer with forbearance and due consideration. It can do this in a number of 
ways, such as offering a repayment plan, rescheduling the debt or providing a customer with 
their options to end the agreement early. 
On 19 March 2020, Mrs R contacted VWFS to let it know she could no longer afford to keep 
the car as she had been made redundant. She said she couldnt make any further payments 
and asked VWFS to collect the car. VWFS offered her three options  to part exchange, sell 
or voluntarily terminate the agreement. But system notes show that Mrs R said these options 
werent viable and that shed look to take the car back to the dealership.
Having considered this, Im satisfied that VWFS treated Mrs R with forbearance and due 
consideration when she told it she was made redundant in March 2020. I say this because 
Mrs R had said she didnt want to keep the car and was looking to take the car back to the 
dealership. So a payment plan wouldnt have likely been suitable. I also appreciate that    Mrs R says she lost her job as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. But when Mrs R contacted 
VWFS in March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) hadnt issued any guidance on 
how lenders should treat customers with motor finance agreements that had impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. But even when the guidance was issued in April 2020 and July 2020, 
the guidance didnt place an obligation upon lenders to take back cars from customers under 
hire purchase agreements, without any further payments being made. 
After the call in March 2020, Mrs R didnt contact VWFS until 9 December 2020 when she 
told VWFS she could no longer afford to pay for the car. Mrs R hadnt missed any monthly 
payments owed under the agreement at this point. System notes show she told it that it 
should waive any further payments owed and take back the car as a result of the experience 
shed had with it. But VWFS said it couldnt do this and again told her she could part 
exchange, sell or voluntarily terminate the agreement. During this call, VWFS told Mrs R it 
could set up an arrangement to pay to cover any shortfall she would have as a result of 
voluntary terminating the agreement. But Mrs R said she couldnt afford this and would 
consider other financial options available to her. 
Having thought about this, given Mrs R wanted to return the car to VWFS, Im satisfied 
VWFS treated Mrs R with forbearance and due consideration as it provided her with her 
options to end the agreement and set up a repayment plan to cover any shortfall.  
Mrs R also says she wasnt told about being able to voluntary terminate the agreement. But 
system notes show this option was communicated to her during the phone call in          
March 2020 and December 2020. And I can also see this option was set out and explained 
in an email sent to Mrs R in December 2020. This option was also set out in her hire 
purchase agreement. I can see that Mrs R chose to keep the car and continue paying her 
monthly rentals. So whilst, I appreciate Mrs R no longer wanted to keep the car, Im satisfied 
VWFS provided her with her option to voluntary terminate her agreement. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the £250 offer VWFS has made for the distress and inconvenience 
to Mrs R is fair and reasonable, given it reported incorrect information to Mrs Rs credit file 
for around a year. And I think VWFS clearly provided Mrs R with her options to end her 
agreement and treated her with forbearance and due consideration when she told it about 
her financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services should pay Mrs R £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused, if it 
hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman