DRN-2863842
The complaint
Mrs W complains that a car she took on hire purchase from First Response Finance Ltd was 
not of satisfactory quality. She also says the dealership misled her about the car.
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs W entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement with First 
Response. The agreement was for a car which had first been registered in November 2007 
with a recorded mileage of over 138,000 miles. Its cash price was £1,850. 
Within a few weeks Mrs W identified issues with the cars CD player and one of the electric 
wing mirrors. She arranged repairs. 
Some months later the cars tyres were replaced. There were also repairs needed to the 
cars axles and headlights.  
First Response did not think that it was liable for the problems Mrs W had encountered. It 
said that the condition of the car was what was to be expected, given its age and mileage. It 
did however acknowledge that it had not communicated as well as it should have done and 
offered £100 in recognition of that.
Mrs W referred the case to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He broadly agreed with First Response that the issues about which Mrs W had 
complained were matters of wear and tear which were to be expected in a car of its age. Mrs 
W did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the 
circumstances. Those circumstances include the cars age, mileage and price. The car in 
this case was a high mileage vehicle which was over 11 years old and cost less than £2,000. 
It was, I think, reasonable to expect that it might need some repairs, possibly relatively early 
on in the life of the hire purchase agreement. 
Some of the issues that Mrs W reported, such as the wing mirror and CD player, were 
relatively minor. Others, such as tyres and suspension, were more serious. In my view 
however, all were consistent with what I think it is reasonable to expect from a car of this 
age, mileage and price. 
The tyres were replaced after Mrs W had driven about 8,000 miles in the car. Repairs to the 
suspension were carried out after around 10,000 miles. Mrs W has also complained about a 
dent in the cars bonnet, but I think that would have been apparent at the point of delivery. 
Overall, I do not believe I can fairly say that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point 
of delivery to Mrs W. Whilst it was by no means perfect, I think its condition was in line with 
what was to be expected in the circumstances. 
Mrs W has also said that the dealership misled her, in that it applied a £250 administration 
fee instead of the £50 it said it would charge. It also misled her about the cars warranty. In 
my view however these are matters which would need to be taken up with the dealership. In 
any event, I have seen nothing to persuade me that she was misled.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require First Response Finance Ltd to do 
anything more to resolve Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman