DRN-4512614
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr V bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2018. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations 
and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr V 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr V into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Vs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr V signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr V says he was led to believe. So, the investigator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr V (through his representative) disagreed for the following reasons: 
Mr V reiterated that he was advised verbally the benefits would cover the costs. 
That he was not shown the figures contained in the documents and only told where 
to sign. 
There is only one signature in the second page of the sales contract, not on each 
page of the document, so Mr Vs representative feels theres no proof Mr V saw 
these figures to be able to realize that what he was being told verbally was untrue. 
They feel Omni should have to prove that he was shown the documents side by side 
that would have enabled him to compare the figures contained in the document. 
He says he would not have taken the loan if hed understood the benefits wouldnt be 
sufficient to cover his costs given his financial position at the time of sale. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, I was asked to make a decision.
In my provisional decision of 23 November 2023, I set out why I was minded to not 
upholding the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Mr V didnt reply. Omni appeared to accept 
my findings and added further commentary to support its position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr V paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr V could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr V and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, currently, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr V was provided with the sales documents, and it seems likely that he 
wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents. 
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost of the solar panel system on 
the same document as the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system. 
I think its clear that the total annual estimated benefit Mr V could expect to receive from the 
system was £879.80. 
The cost of the system is also recorded in the contract  and the section for finance has 
been completed. So, it looks like Mr V was aware hed be taking out finance. The above 
section records that Mr Vs loan term was 120 months, that his monthly payment was 148.59 
and the total amount repayable is also noted on there  and this was over £17,800. 
None of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And 
Mr V has signed this document. 
On the same day, Mr V also signed the credit agreement which set out the cash price of 
£11,495, the monthly payment of £148.59, the total amount payable of £17,830.80, as well 
as the term of the loan which was 120-months (i.e.10 years). 
Ive considered Mr Vs argument that there isnt a signature on each page of the documents, 
but the documents arent particularly long, and both the documents Ive referred to above are 
the solar panels contract and credit agreement  which are important documents integral to 
the sale. I think its highly unlikely that Mr V signed these documents as many times as he 
did but didnt see any of these figures. I also think its unlikely that the sales representative 
would tell Mr V to sign these documents that clearly highlight the estimated benefits and 
costs but verbally mislead him with other figures. 
Usually, the sale documentation reflects the nature of the discussions that took place at the 
time of sale, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that this didnt happen here. 
So, Im persuaded that its more likely the supplier discussed the estimated benefit the 
system would likely produce as well as clearly setting out the cost  and that is reflected in 
the documents Mr V has signed. 
I also think its apparent that to repay a loan for over £17,000 over 10 years, Mr V would 
need at least £1,700 to meet the annual repayments of the loan, and the total annual benefit 
amount falls significantly short of that. I also think its apparent that 12 payments of £148.59, 
amounts to more than £879.80. 
Overall, I think its more likely that it would have been clear to him that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding in the way he says he was told they would be. 
If Mr V had been told something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mr Vs 
understanding, at that time. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Vs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Mr V has raised concerns over whether Omni carried out appropriate credit checks before 
granting the loan. Omni says Mr Vs application passed all its automated credit checks such 
as no adverse information being present on his credit history for the 12 months leading up to 
the sale. Additionally, Omni says all payments have been maintained by Mr V. And despite 
Mr V contacting Omni about the system, he has never mentioned any concerns with 
affordability. Based on everything Ive seen, I think the loan was affordable at the time of 
sale, so I dont uphold this complaint on this basis. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr V 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think Omni acted unfairly by declining Mr Vs claim.
Omni said that it has previously had various exchanges with Mr V regarding remediation 
works carried out on the system (as part of a separate complaint). Throughout this, Mr V 
never raised any concerns about the system benefits not meeting his expectations, not being 
self-funding, nor did he make any comments about the affordability of the loan. Mr V, as 
explained above, did not make any additional submissions in response to my provisional 
decision. I do accept that if Mr V had difficulty with repaying the loan and couldnt afford it, I would 
have expected him to raise this with Omni, so this further supports my findings. Overall, 
having reviewed this complaint again in its entirety, and in the absence of any other points 
for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision. Im still satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by 
the supplier that induced Mr V to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no 
other reason to uphold this complaint. So, I dont think Omni acted unfairly by declining 
Mr Vs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman