DRN-1352231
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with how long it took for Target Servicing Limited to arrange for 
the charge to be released with the Land Registry after they repaid their secured loan.
Their loan was with a lender that Ill call C and Target administered it on the lenders behalf. 
Any reference to Target should be taken to mean C where appropriate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L repaid their loan on 12 December 2018. On 19 February 2019 Target 
completed the DS1 form on behalf of C and it sent it to its solicitor the following day so the 
charge could be removed at the Land Registry.
Mr and Mrs L and their solicitor chased things up and as the charge still hadnt been 
removed Mr and Mrs L raised a formal complaint on 1 April 2019. At the same time, they 
gave their new address to Target.
On 9 April 2019 Targets solicitor submitted the DS1 to the Land Registry.
Target acknowledged the complaint but in error sent that letter to Mr and Mrs Ls old 
address. It then sent its final response to Mr and Mrs Ls complaint (to the correct address) 
on 31 July 2019 and paid them £50 compensation.
Our investigator thought Target hadnt provided the level of service that would be expected 
and said compensation of £150 was more appropriate. Target didnt agree, saying it felt 
£100 was fair, and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that there were service failures here. There also seems to be some confusion 
on Targets part about the relevant dates. For instance, its said it didnt receive the DS1 
form from Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor until 20 February 2019. But that cant be right because it 
was completed and signed by Target (acting as Cs attorney) on 19 February and the letter 
sending it off to its solicitor was dated the same day (albeit it seems not to have been noted 
as having been posted on Targets system until the following day).
Theres nothing in the contact notes that Target has provided to us to show when the DS1 
form was received, but there is a note showing a call was made by Mrs L to Target first thing 
in the morning on 19 February chasing the discharge and it was then completed by Target 
(on behalf of C) that same day, despite them allegedly not receiving it until the day after.
Targets solicitor then did nothing with the DS1 form until 9 April, after Mr and Mrs L had 
raised a formal complaint. Target had told Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor that the delay was due to 
the amount of DS1 forms sent to its solicitor.
The poor customer service was then compounded by Target ignoring the information it had 
been given about Mr and Mrs Ls new address and sending the acknowledgement of their 
complaint to their old address. Then it took four months for their complaint to be answered, 
with the final response letter saying theyd only complained on 19 July.
Target has argued that Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor made mistakes as well. That may be true - I 
cant comment either way as the solicitor isnt in my jurisdiction - but this complaint is about 
Target and what it did and didnt do. Even if the solicitor did make some mistakes that 
doesnt excuse the incredibly poor level of service that was provided by Target, and that 
even in its handling of the complaint it made further mistakes. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied the service provided by Target fell below what Id 
expect. I think the compensation recommended by the investigator of £150 in total is 
appropriate and proportionate to the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Target Servicing Limited to pay 
compensation of £150 (less the £50 already paid) to Mr and Mrs L. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my 
decision before 19 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman