DRN-3198739
The complaint
Ms C and Mr M have complained about the way Godiva Mortgages Limited handled their 
buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage application. They say that, acting in reliance on an assurance 
from Godiva that a retention on the mortgage funds would be lifted (which was, in fact, 
incorrect), they carried out work to the property. In order to complete their purchase they had 
to take out a bridging loan. 
Ms C and Mr M want Godiva to compensate them for their financial losses and for the 
distress and upset they have been caused.
What happened
What happened to bring Ms C and Mr M to make a complaint isnt in dispute, and the events 
have been set out in detail in correspondence. Godiva has accepted it made a mistake, so I 
dont need to analyse the events in detail to establish who might be at fault. Because our 
decisions are published, I have to ensure I dont include any information that might lead 
Ms C or Mr M to be identified. For these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened 
fairly brief.
Ms C had inherited a 25% share in a property that held great emotional value for her. She 
and Mr M decided to purchase the remaining 75% interest in the property from the other 
beneficiaries, renovate the property and rent it out. Through a broker, they applied to Godiva 
for a BTL mortgage.
After inspecting the property, Godivas valuer recommended a 100% retention, due to the 
amount of work that needed to be done. The valuer was satisfied that the property wasnt 
suitable for letting in its current condition. Effectively this meant that, if 
Ms C and Mr M wanted the mortgage, theyd have to renovate the property before the 
mortgage funds could be released  but without the money from the mortgage, they wouldnt 
have the money to buy out the other beneficiaries. In effect, therefore, theyd have to 
renovate a property they didnt own, with the inherent risk that their purchase might not go 
through.
However, Godiva incorrectly told the broker that if Ms C and Mr M carried out the work 
required to obtain an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC), the retention would be reduced 
to £15,000. Ms C and Mr M carried out the work required for this, and obtained the EPC. On 
29 March 2021 Godiva acknowledged it had made a mistake and that the 100% retention 
remained. Despite referring the matter to senior underwriters, the decision was unchanged.
The broker told Godiva that Ms C and Mr M wouldnt be able to proceed with the purchase. 
Godiva agreed to look at the additional costs that had been incurred as a result of the 
abortive purchase. 
However, Ms C and Mr M later applied to a building society for a mortgage because they still 
wanted to proceed with their purchase. They werent able to secure a mortgage from that 
lender, and on 17 May 2021 the broker explained to Godiva that Ms C and Mr M felt they 
had no option but to purchase the property with a bridging loan.
As a result, in its final response letter dated 21 May 2021 Godiva explained that it didnt think 
it was appropriate to compensate Ms C and Mr M for the cost of the work theyd done to the 
property, as they were now going ahead with their purchase, and so would have the benefit 
of this work. It was also noted that the current occupant of the property was causing difficulty 
with access and so it wasnt possible for the remaining work to be carried out before 
completion of the purchase. Given this, Godiva thought that this would have been the 
position whether or not the mortgage with it had gone ahead. Godiva offered compensation 
of £750 for providing incorrect information and the upset this had caused. 
Unhappy with this, Ms C and Mr M brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. As well as the cost of the work, Ms C and Mr M were also claiming the additional 
Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) theyd had to pay as a result of missing the SDLT holiday to 
complete their purchase. 
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied the £750 offered by Godiva was fair compensation for the mistake 
that had been made. 
Ms C and Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Theyve not provided any 
further evidence and arguments, but said that they thought the investigator had only looked 
at the individual circumstances rather than the issue as a whole.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Ms C and Mr M have said about the emotional context of this complaint. I 
fully understand why it was important, particularly for Ms C, to be able to buy this house. But 
I have to take a step back and consider the complaint impartially, on the basis of the 
evidence, without being swayed by emotion.
Im satisfied Godiva is entitled to apply its lending policy and attach conditions to the 
mortgage offer. In this case, for a BTL mortgage, the policy was that the property had to be 
in a habitable condition and meet the standards required for commercial letting. Because the 
property didnt meet this standard, the policy was that a 100% retention would be made 
pending the property being put into a habitable condition. I think this is reasonable, as it 
ensures that the BTL properties offered as security for Godiva mortgages are habitable and 
meet reasonable standards of amenities and quality.
Godiva has accepted it made a mistake when it told the broker that the retention would be 
reduced to £15,000 if the EPC was obtained. Where a mistake has been made, we try, 
wherever possible, to put the consumer back in the position theyd have been in if the 
mistake hadnt been made.
In this case, if Godiva had told Ms C and Mr M that the retention remained at 100%, Im 
satisfied, from what theyve told us, that they wouldnt have been able to go ahead with the 
mortgage with Godiva.  From what Ive been told, they didnt have the funds available to 
purchase the property and complete all the necessary work from their own resources. 
Given this, I think its likely Ms C and Mr M would have needed to find another lender in any 
event. It appears mainstream BTL borrowing wasnt available, as a mortgage application to a 
building society through the broker wasnt successful either. At the point when Godiva thought the purchase had been abandoned, it offered to reimburse 
Ms C and Mr M for the costs theyd incurred, as theyd have spent money on a property they 
werent going to own. This was reasonable. But once Godiva learned that 
Ms C and Mr M were, in fact, going ahead with the purchase, I dont think Godiva was under 
any obligation to compensate Ms C and Mr M for the cost of the work theyd carried out, and 
for which theyd have the full benefit in due course. In addition, the EPC was a requirement 
for them to be able to rent out the property, and so was an expense theyve have incurred in 
any event.
The SDLT holiday window closed on 30 September 2021, and Godivas involvement in the 
matter ended on 21 May 2021 with the final response letter. The bridging loan was available 
on 14 June 2021. Given this, I dont think I can hold Godiva responsible for any additional 
SDLT that Ms C and Mr M had to pay. They had 3.5 months to complete their purchase from 
the receipt of their bridging loan offer. As the proposed purchase had been underway for 
several months before then, it is reasonable to assume that the legal work to put the sale 
contract in place was (or should have been) largely concluded by June 2021, with only the 
mortgage offer outstanding. If it was not, thats not something for which Godiva is 
responsible.
Its unfortunate that Ms C and Mr M already had a tenant ready to move in before they had 
completed their purchase, and I can appreciate that having to find a new lender caused them 
(and the tenant) some inconvenience and upset. But again thats not something Godiva is 
liable for. It would have been up to Mr M and Ms Cs professional advisers  their solicitors 
and mortgage broker  to explain that they would need to complete on their purchase with 
vacant possession and have the property renovated and ready for occupation before they 
could have a tenant in the property.
I also dont think Godiva is responsible for the additional fees and expenses arising from the 
bridging loan. Because Ms C and Mr M werent able to fulfil Godivas mortgage conditions, 
their only option was to source funding elsewhere if they wanted to go ahead with their 
purchase. Bridging loans are generally more expensive than standard mortgages, but 
despite his best efforts, their broker wasnt able to source a standard BTL mortgage from 
another lender. It was always open to Mr M and Ms C, after theyd used the bridging finance 
funds to renovate the property, to re-apply to Godiva for a standard BTL mortgage and pay 
off the bridging loan. 
Overall, as Ive explained above, Ms C and Mr M could not have fulfilled Godivas condition 
that all the refurbishment needed to be done before the 100% retention would be lifted, and 
the only way they were able to complete the purchase and carry out the work was by way of 
bridging finance. Given this, the evidence is persuasive that even if Godiva hadnt made the 
mistake about reducing the retention, the mortgage would not have gone ahead in any 
event.
I think the offer of compensation made by Godiva of £750 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. It is proportionate to the mistake made, and the upset caused. But, as Ive 
stated above, because the purchase ultimately went ahead, with Ms C and Mr M benefitting 
from the work they carried out, I cant see any basis on which Godiva should be expected to 
cover the cost of that work, or the cost of raising the finance to purchase the property and 
renovate it.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the £750 
offered by Godiva Mortgages Limited is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply 
leave it to Ms C and Mr M to decide if they want to accept it in full and final settlement of 
their complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman