DRN-3658831
The complaint
Mr C and Miss L complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly turned down 
their claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr C and Miss L took out a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva that 
gave them buildings cover of up to £500,000. In a phone call at the time with the broker who 
arranged the policy, Miss L said building work was going to be carried out at the insured 
property. Mr C and Miss L werent living in it at the time but were due to move in some 
months later, once the work was complete.
During the phone call with Miss L, and because of the discussion about building work, an 
endorsement to Avivas policy was added. This excluded cover for (among other things) 
loss, damage or liability arising out of renovation, repair or structural work.
In June 2021, after Mr C and a relative had been working at the property to install a new 
boiler and pipework in the loft, there was a fire. It spread into the neighbouring terraced 
properties on each side, causing extensive damage. 
Mr C and Miss L made a claim on their policy for the damage to their property. They also 
said, in relation to the damage to their neighbours properties, they had the benefit of policy 
cover for property owners liability.
Aviva turned down Mr C and Miss Ls claim and said they didnt have the benefit of the 
property owners liability cover. Among other things, Aviva said hot work carried out by    
Mr Cs relative to install the new boiler and pipework was the probable cause of the fire. It 
said this work was part of the renovations Mr C and Miss L were carrying out. And (among 
other things) it said this meant cover for the claim, and for property owners liability, was 
excluded by the endorsement. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr C and Miss L complained to us. The investigator who 
looked at their complaint didnt uphold it. He thought Mr C and Miss Ls policy was clear that 
any damage caused by renovation work wouldnt be covered. And he thought Aviva was 
correct to say it wouldnt extend property owners liability cover to the neighbouring 
properties.
Mr C and Miss L disagree with our investigators view. Among other things, they say Aviva 
has misconstrued their policy, which they say does cover them for the loss, damage and 
liability caused by the fire. And they say if theres any doubt about the construction of the 
terms of the policy, it should be construed in their favour, both on the basis of a legal 
principle called the contra proferentum rule and under the provisions of The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015.
So Mr C and Miss Ls complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding Mr C and Miss Ls complaint, Ive also taken into account rules and guidance set 
out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) that say insurers should handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably turn down a claim. Ive also taken into account the relevant 
law (including the relevant provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Miss Ls complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them  and I understand the very difficult situation they face following the fire. 
But, for the reasons Im about to give, from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Aviva has 
treated them unfairly or unreasonably.
I should say at the outset my role isnt to decide what caused the fire at Mr C and Miss Ls 
home. Its to decide if Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down                         
Mr C and Miss Ls claim and in refusing to give them the benefit of property owners liability 
cover. 
In doing this, Aviva has relied (among other things) on reports from experts, as well as the 
exclusion Ive already referred to that was endorsed on Mr C and Miss Ls policy. What I 
must look at, based on the evidence, is whether, on the balance of probabilities, Aviva has 
shown the exclusion applies.
Turning to the reports Aviva commissioned, the first was from the loss adjuster it appointed 
initially to assess the claim. In its report, the loss adjuster says: 
The cause of the fire is currently being investigated, but [it] would seem... to be the careless 
use of a blow torch used by [Mr C s relative], who was welding gas pipe joints in the loft 
area only using a head torch and other limited torch light. 
Aviva then appointed a specialist fire investigation company to report on the cause of the 
fire. In its report, it says:
On the basis of the available evidence, the potential causes of the fire can be limited to 
carelessly discarded smokers materials and the ignition of combustible materials by the 
flame of the blowtorch during the hot-work that was carried out by [Mr Cs relative].
The report says that, although Mr C said his relative only smoked at the back door of the 
property, a cigarette butt on the first-floor landing raises the possibility that the fire could
have been caused by smokers materials  although the report goes on to say the 
enclosed nature of the eaves of the roof would offer perhaps an unusual place to dispose 
of smokers materials. The report concludes:
Given the reported circumstances, the position of the soldered joint (next to the area of 
burning at the eaves) and the presence of dry and porous timber in that area, the flame of 
the blowtorch currently offers the probable source of ignition in this case.
When Aviva wrote to Mr C and Miss L to turn down their claim, it relied on the specialist fire 
investigation companys report on the probable cause of the fire  that is, the use of the 
blowtorch by Mr Cs relative. A subsequent report by the fire service seems to endorse that 
report: the fire service says the fire was accidental, the main cause being combustible 
articles too close to heat source. From all the evidence Ive seen, therefore, I think Avivas 
conclusion on the probable cause of the fire was a fair and reasonable one.Turning next to the exclusion, Mr C and Miss L have made a number of detailed points. They 
are familiar to both parties so, although Ive considered all of them, I shall only summarise 
what I think are the main ones here. Mr C and Miss L say:
The exclusion doesnt apply to the installation of a new boiler and associated 
pipework. They say this is made clear in another term of Mr C and Miss Ls policy, 
which says the installation/repair of central heating doesnt need to be notified to 
Aviva.
Their understanding of the exclusion, based on Miss Ls phone conversation with the 
broker, was that it only applied to walls or floors being knocked out. Mr C and Miss L 
dont see how they could reasonably jump to the conclusion it would include central 
heating work.
Avivas contention that the installation of a new boiler is renovation for the purposes 
of the exclusion introduces not only an intention which was patently not apparent 
from the Inception Call, but is in any event completely baffling and unfair.
If theres any confusion or ambiguity about the policy terms, Mr C and Miss L say 
they can rely on the contra proferentem rule and/or The Consumer Rights Act 2015.
In essence, Mr C and Miss Ls main argument is that the installation of a central heating 
boiler isnt a renovation, repair or structural work for the purposes of the exclusion. 
Renovation isnt defined in the policy. But Mr C and Miss L say:
the correct test for a consumer policy, in the absence of any Policy definitions, is the 
ordinary understanding and dictionary definitions, and when you apply those, the installation 
of a new boiler and associated pipework do not constitute renovation, repair or structural 
works.
In the absence of a policy definition, Ive thought about the natural meanings of renovation, 
repair and structural work. Ive also looked at the dictionary definitions as appropriate. 
The Cambridge Dictionary defines renovation as the act or process of repairing and 
improving something, especially a building. In the context of property, it says renovation is 
the process of repairing and improving a building so that it is in good condition again. It 
defines structural as relating to the structure of a building or similar object, while repair 
is to put something that is damaged, broken, or not working correctly, back into 
good condition or make it work again.
Ive also thought about the circumstances when Mr C and Miss L took out the policy, at the 
condition of the property at that time and at the work that was taking place before the fire 
started. The estate agents who marketed the property in July 2020 described it as requiring 
modernisation throughout and in need of extensive renovation. The loss adjusters report 
says the property hadnt been updated or modernised in 30 years and was empty for three 
years before Mr C and Miss L bought it. It says:
The property was sold as a renovation project and required roof works, a new bathroom, 
kitchen, replacement central heating, all new doors and windows and full redecoration 
throughout.
The report says, before the fire, Mr C had stripped out the property and that, while there was 
a gas meter at the front of the property, the gas wasnt yet connected and the only power to 
the house was from one socket, which another relative of Mr Cs had installed.So this is the background against which Mr Cs relative was installing the new central 
heating system. As Mr C and Miss L say, renovation isnt defined in their policy. But on the 
facts and circumstances of this particular complaint, and despite Mr C and Miss Ls various 
arguments to the contrary, I think the meaning of the word renovation is clear and 
unambiguous. I think the installation of the new central heating system was part of a 
renovation project, as any reasonable person would understand it, giving the word 
renovation its ordinary and natural meaning. In other words, it was part of a project 
designed to improve the property, so it was in a good condition for Mr C and Miss L to move 
into once complete. 
Mr C and Miss L say the conversation Miss L had with the broker at the outset limits the 
scope of the exclusion. From the extracts of the call Ive seen, the broker asked Miss L about 
the building works:
 
if you don't mind me asking how much, with the building work that's going on, does it involve 
any walls or floors being knocked out, any, any type of, of that type of work.
Miss L said walls werent being knocked down but flooring was being replaced. Its at this 
point in the conversation the broker says Aviva will be endorsing the policy with the 
exclusion about building work. Mr C and Miss L say, because of this conversation, they 
believed building work only comprised walls or floors being knocked out, and so the 
exclusion should only apply in respect of those works. 
I dont agree. To me, from the extracts of the call Ive seen, the broker is trying to find out the 
general scope of the building work Mr C and Miss L intend to carry out. He does this by 
offering some examples. But I think these examples are just that, examples. I dont think 
theyre intended to be exhaustive  the broker refers generally to that type of work. So I 
dont think these words can fairly and reasonably be taken to mean Aviva was limiting the 
scope of the exclusion to those examples. And, in any case, the exclusion is clearly set out 
as an endorsement to Mr C and Miss Ls policy schedule. So if, having read it, they werent 
happy with its scope, Mr C and Miss L couldve cancelled the policy within the 14 day 
cooling-off period. 
Mr C and Miss L also say the exclusion is an unfair term under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 and as such isnt binding on them. But insurers are entitled to make commercial 
decisions about the risks they are and arent willing to insure. I think thats what Aviva has 
done here and I dont think its unreasonable. 
Mr C and Miss L also say they werent given appropriate information about the exclusion, 
which they say was significant and unusual. I dont think the exclusion is unusual  insurers 
often exclude cover for loss, damage or liability arising from renovation projects or where a 
property is unoccupied. And, as Ive said, the exclusion is clearly set out in the endorsement.
Mr C and Miss L also say theres a general condition in their policy that means they dont 
have to notify Aviva if theyre having central heating installed or repaired. And they say that 
means its not covered by the endorsement. Looking at that condition as a whole, I dont 
think its relevant here. Thats because I think its intention is to deal with situations where a 
policy is already in place, a policyholder intends to start what are called structural works 
and the insurer wants to be able to re-rate its risk in the light of those works. But in Mr C and 
Miss Ls case, this is what was done at the outset: Aviva endorsed the policy with the 
exclusion because it didnt want to accept the risks associated with renovation etc. In any 
case, in the event of any conflict, I think because this exclusion was endorsed on the policy, 
it would take priority over the general condition.So, for the reasons Ive given, I think it was fair and reasonable of Aviva to say the fire was 
most likely caused by the work Mr Cs relative had carried out to install central heating and to 
rely on the exclusion that was endorsed on the policy to turn down Mr C and Miss Ls claim. 
Turning now to the issue of property owners liability cover, Mr C and Miss L say they should 
have the benefit of this  for the same reasons as they say they dont think the exclusion 
should apply to their claim. Aviva says the endorsement is explicit in that it says cover will 
not be provided for (among other things) any loss, damage or liability arising from 
renovation works. And it says the endorsement is standard where a property is undergoing 
complete refurbishment/renovation. 
The endorsement says cover is excluded for any liability arising out of renovation works. I 
think this would extend to any liability to third parties that might arise as a result of the fire. 
So I think its fair and reasonable of Aviva to say Mr C and Miss L dont have the benefit of 
property owners liability cover.
Both Mr C and Miss L and Aviva have made a number of other arguments in support of their 
respective positions on this complaint. Although Im not referring to all of them here, I have 
considered each of them but they dont change my conclusions on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr C and Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman