DRN-2868106
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr L entered into a two year hire agreement to acquire a brand new car. The 
agreement reached maturity in March 2021 and the car was collected by MBFS recovery 
agents  who Ill refer to as B.
Mr L complains that after the car was collected by B, he received a report from MBFS 
charging him for damage to the car. 
B issued a report on the condition of Mr Ls car when it collected it. It said the following 
damage was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Bumper front - scratched over 50mm
2. Wing left hand front - scratched greater than 25mm through the top coat and requires 
refinish
3. Door left hand - scratched greater than 25mm through the top coat and requires 
refinish
4. Bumper rear - scratched greater than 25mm through the top coat and requires 
refinish
5. Quarter panel right hand rear - scratched greater than 25mm through the top coat 
and requires refinish
Mr L made a complaint to MBFS, as he said the damage to the car should be seen as fair 
wear and tear and he didnt think it was fair for MBFS to charge him.
In April 2021, MBFS looked into Mr Ls complaint. It said the charges had been applied 
correctly in line with MBFS vehicle return standards (VRS). Unhappy with this, Mr L 
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint, but thought the charges were applied fairly in 
line with MBFS VRS and the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines.
Mr L agreed the charge for the damage to the wheel was applied fairly. But he disagreed 
with the other charges. He said a car of similar age would have around the same number of 
scratches. He said photos on a tablet could make the damage look worse than it was. And 
he pointed out he handed back the car with around 10,000 miles less than it was entitled to 
travel. He said he hadnt received any remittance for this. He said he was happy to pay 
some of the charges, but said fair wear and tear needed to be defined.
Mr L remains in disagreement, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
As Mr L accepts the charge for the damage to the wheel, I havent considered this as part of 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, but Ive considered the BVRLA 
guidelines alongside MBFS VRS.
The VRS are set out in Mr Ls hire agreement and these explain the standards that MBFS 
expected this car to meet on return. When Mr L acquired his car under the hire agreement, 
he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the VRS. And he agreed that 
MBFS would be entitled to charge him for costs of repairs and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or 
the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as compensation. 
The car was around two years old at the point of inspection and it had covered just over 
10,000 miles. So, while Ill take into consideration the BVRLA guidance and MBFS VRS, Ill 
also think about whats fair and reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.
In relation to scratches to the body of the car and paint, the VRS say the following is 
acceptable:
light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing/ 
touching up.
They say the following isnt acceptable:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat and/or has 
caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out.
For bumpers and body mouldings, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your 
(manufacturer name)
For scratches to bumpers and the body and paint of a car, the BVRLA says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable.
Both the VRS and BVRLA guidelines agree that any scratches where the bare metal or 
primer is showing is not acceptable. The VRS are more generous in that they accept 
scratches of up to 50mm to a bumper. 
Ive looked at the photographs provided for all five areas where scratches were identified by 
B. Each picture includes a photograph of a ruler used to measure the scratch. 
I can see that the photographs show scratches on the front bumper which are showing the 
bare metal of the car. Im satisfied these have penetrated the base coat and adversely affect 
the appearance of the car. 
The photographs for the rear bumper show scratches in excess of 50mm. 
The photos show scratches to the left hand front wing, the left hand door and the right hand 
rear quarter panel. These scratches are in excess of 25mm and have penetrated through to 
show the primer. In light of this, I think its fair for MBFS to charge for the scratches B has identified. I say this 
as Im satisfied the damage falls outside of fair wear and tear. 
I appreciate Mr L feels strongly that the scratches should be considered as fair wear and tear 
and he says the damage could look worse in pictures taken using a tablet. However, Mr L 
hasnt provided any supporting conflicting evidence. And having considered the scratches to 
Mr Ls car in line with both the VRS and the BVRLA guidance, I dont think the scratches 
identified are fair and reasonable for a two year old car.
I also understand Mr L returned the car having covered less mileage than he was permitted 
to. He said he didnt receive remittance for this. However, Mr Ls agreement doesnt entitle 
him to be reimbursed for any unused mileage. So I dont think MBFS need to reimburse him 
for the mileage he didnt cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman