DRN-3203443
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (SCUK).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr D has been represented throughout this complaint but for ease, and because Mr D is 
named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to him in this decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SCUK, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 31,000 so I think a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect it to be fault free.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when SCUK were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. The relevant legislation allows the business an 
opportunity to repair faults that were present at the point of supply and I can see that SCUK 
facilitated repairs after Mr D complained to them about the quality of his car in March 2020.
If those repairs fail or if other repairs come to light that were developing or present at the 
point of supply then the consumer may be able to reject the car.
Im not persuaded that the faults Mr D subsequently reported are due to failed repairs or 
where likely to have been present when the car was supplied to him.
I say that because the expert independent engineers comments say the fault that is causing 
the car to enter limp mode is due to carbon build up and is not something that was likely to 
have been present from the beginning. And also, because the independent engineer 
confirmed in his report that there was no evidence of failed repairs.
Mr D also complained of peeling paint on the alloys and some overspray but as these issues 
would have been evident to him on a fair inspection of the car before supply I think its fair to 
say he accepted the car in that condition.
I can see Mr D has had other issues with the car since he first raised his complaint e.g. a 
problem with the roof frame. But Ive not seen evidence that these were present at the point 
the car was supplied to him and in those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to hold 
SCUK responsible.
I have, however, considered the problems Mr D had with the car in the first six months. 
There were several visits to the dealership during which Mr D accepted repairs and I can 
understand those issues would have caused some distress and inconvenience. Mr D would 
have had to arrange for the car to go into the garage and I can see that on at least one 
occasion there was a need for the car to be recovered by breakdown services. SCUK 
mitigated some of that inconvenience as I can see that Mr D was supplied with quality 
courtesy cars to keep him mobile. Taking all the issues into account I think SCUK should pay 
him £300 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
I think SCUK should put things right in the way Ive explained above.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding this complaint in part and telling Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc to pay Mr D £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman