DRN-4231347
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money he lost in a 
romance/ investment scam.
What happened
What Mr P says:
In May 2022 Mr P met someone on a dating website. He had used the site before
and met people in person. He saw a particular profile which he was interested in. He 
messaged the person and began chatting. He was told that she was originally from Hong 
Kong but lived in the UK. He was also told that she was in Hong Kong but would be back in 
the UK in a month and on her return, she would like to meet up with him. They both spoke 
for a while, getting to know each other. Mr P was told that she worked for her uncles 
investment company and that she made a lot of money from this and was her only source of 
income. 
Mr P expressed interest in what the scammer was doing and asked her for more information 
regarding the investments she was involved in, as he had previously successfully
invested himself in 2020.
Mr P began to asked more and more about investments and how much she was making 
from them. He was sent a screenshot of a trading account and the name of the site she was 
using. He was provided with details of the investment company and told that this is what she 
used to invest - if he was interested in getting involved too. The scammer provided a link to 
the site and an invitation code and told him to not provide it to anyone else.
Mr P clicked on a further link which took him to the trading platform which looked very 
professional and genuine so at this point he was happy to invest.
Before getting involved in the investment he looked at the website and googled the 
exchange, he couldn't find any information on the company. He was told by the scammer 
that the company only opened in May 2022 and he believed this to be true  he thought it 
made sense that there was a lack of information available. He was told the company was a 
private placement and had not yet been released on the public market. However, it would be
going live on 18 August 2022.
Mr P agreed to begin making investments because he believed the scammer to be a 
genuine and experienced investor. He made his first payments in June 2022 for £1,000 and
£4,000. Following the payments he saw his balance increase on the platform. He would then 
receive screenshots of the investments he was making and he would follow her advice.
Following placing the investments he could see his balance increasing. He was asked how 
much he wanted to make and he said he would like to make funds to put towards his home 
and was made to believe this was attainable. He invested more throughout June 2022 and 
did receive a refund however does not recall what it was specifically from. He believed this to 
be from the scammer to add a layer of believability. 
Mr P wanted to make a withdrawal and was then told there were taxes and fees to pay.
He was desperate to get the money back that he had invested - so complied with the 
requests which meant he made more payments throughout July 2022 and August 2022
There was then a further request of £20,000 for review fees  Mr P had then run out of 
money and didnt pay this. After becoming  concerned he completed some further
checks online and found a lot of negative reviews. One review mentioned about a romance 
scam, leading to investments. Mr P then realised he had been scammed.
Mr P made the following payments as shown:
Date Payment Amount
4 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £101
6 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £1,000
6 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £4,000
14 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5,000
14 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5,000 (Barclays intervened)
20 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £60
20 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5,050
24 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £102
27June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £1,000
27 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £4,000
27 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5,005
29 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5,005
4 July 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £100
4 July 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £1,100
5 July 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £105
5 July 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £4,000 (Barclays intervened)
5 July 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5,000 (Barclays intervened)
7 July 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £2,000
7 July 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £3,000
11 July 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £2,005
3 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £30,000 (Barclays intervened)3 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £22,500
3 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £29,000
5 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £100
5 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £1,000
5 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5,000
5 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £39,900 (Barclays intervened)
Total payments £180,123
Mr P received some refunds (he later told us these were from his existing and prior bitcoin 
investments)  so they are not considered to be part of the scam:
Date Credit Amount
15 June 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5055
4 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £8,470
4 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £3,171
5 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £1,102
5 August 2022 Mr P  crypto wallet £5,000
Total income £22,798
Mr P says he lost four years of savings in the scam, which has left him feeling anxious and 
fears for his future and that of his business. He feels guilty about what happened and is 
embarrassed the scammer took advantage of him.
Mr P says he wasnt an experienced investor and Barclays let him down. He says Barclays 
didnt provide scam warnings or guidance. He says Barclays should refund the money hes 
lost, plus 8% interest and compensation of £500.
What Barclays said:
Barclays declined to make any refunds. They said the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM) didnt apply as the payments were sent to an account in Mr Ps name  his 
crypto wallet. Mr P had trading experience going back to 2020. He didnt exercise 
reasonable judgement when making the payment. He only knew the scammer for a short 
while before sending money. Barclays said theyd intervened on more than one occasion in 
the payments  and Mr P denied any outside influence in those conversations.
Barclays paid compensation of £200 for not dealing with Mr Ps fraud claim within their 
guidelines of 15 days.Our investigation so far:
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said:
- The first four payments were in line with Mr Ps normal account activity.
- Barclays shouldve intervened in the five payments on 14 June 2022, 5 July 2022 
(two); 3 August 2022 and 5 August 2022  which they did.
- In the conversations (which were scripted), Mr P said no third party was involved, he 
didnt click on any links and he didnt share his account details with anyone  this 
wasnt truthful.
- On 3 August 2022 he was asked to go to a branch before the payment could be 
released, it was likely the same conversation took place at the branch, although there 
were no notes of it.
- Mr P made healthy returns from the investment and so it was likely he thought the 
investments were genuine  any further warnings were unlikely to have had any 
effect.
Mr P didnt agree. He said Barclays warnings werent adequate. Mr P didnt mislead the 
bank. He told Barclays there wasnt a broker or third party involved  which was the case as 
hed met someone on a dating site and she wasnt a broker; on his visit to the branch his 
account was simply unlocked (after he gave his ID), there wasnt any discussion about 
possible fraud; Barclays gave generic warnings and in one case the warning was about a 
safe account scam  which wasnt relevant.
Mr P asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr P has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr P didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Mr Ps own account - his crypto 
wallet. 
I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P when 
he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: if the payments were of a sufficient size and were out of 
character with how Mr P normally used his account  then we would expect Barclays to have 
intervened and spoken to him.
I looked at Mr Ps account and its fair to say that the payments were unusual. There was 
one large payment for £14,000 in May 2022, but other than that, Mr P used his account for 
daily outgoings of low value. I noticed there were some payments in favour of bitcoin 
investments from December 2020 up to January 2022, but these were for lower amounts  
usually up to £1,000. So  on balance, we wouldve expected Barclays to intervene in some 
of Mr Ps payments in respect of the scam in question.
The crux of this complaint comes down to the calls Barclays had with Mr P. I asked for, and 
listened to the calls dated 14 June 2022 (£5,000 payment) and 4 July 2022 (£4,000 
payment). Both payments had been held by Barclays pending conversations with Mr P.
14 June 2022: £5,000 payment: I consider this to be a strong and detailed call, and I quote 
some key parts of it:
Mr P: its a good time to buy (bitcoin)
Barclays: did you make the payment yourself? Mr P: yes
Barclays: Did you make the (previous payment) of £101 before? Mr P: yes, it was a test as I 
hadnt used Binance in quite some time.
Barclays: Did you set up your (crypto wallet) yourself: Mr P: yes.
Barclays: How long have you been doing this investment? Mr P: since 2020, but not much 
this year.
Barclays: Has a broker or anyone else been involved with this investment: Mr P: no
Barclays: Have you spoken to anyone for advice e.g. a qualified advisor? Mr P: no
Barclays: Have you checked the investment firm on the FCA website? Mr P: no
Barclays: We recommend you check with the FCA website for scam companies  look at it. 
Mr P: But I have used Binance a lot.
Barclays: There is a lack of protection (with these investments). Mr P then gave a description of how he used the app and made the investments into bitcoin.
Barclays: Are you aware of the risk of investing (in bitcoin)? Mr P: yes
Barclays: Are you aware there is no protection? Mr P: yes I want to buy today, Im losing out 
right now.
Barclays: Are you aware there is a lack of protection? Mr P: yes, Id like to proceed.
Barclays: Have you clicked on a link from social media or similar? Mr P: no
Barclays: Has anyone asked you to make this payment or over the phone? Mr P: no
Barclays: Is it your sole decision to put this through? Mr P: yes
Barclays: Are you fully aware of the risks involved? That it can go up or down? Mr P: yes
Barclays: Are you satisfied youve done research into where you are sending this money to? 
Mr P: yes
Barclays: Once a payment has been sent, if it turns out to be a scam, theres no guarantee 
we can recover the money - understand? Mr P: yes
The payment was then released.
4 July 2022: £4,000 payment: I consider this was also a strong call and I quote some of it:
Barclays: The payment for £4,000 has been held. Mr P: I dont know why this keeps 
happening, it happened before. It used to be much quicker before now.
Barclays: Scams are more professional now and customers are losing a lot of money. Mr P: 
yes, I heard about one yesterday  she fell for it twice!
Barclays: Serious investors have been scammedMr P: I want to do this as quickly as 
possible. It is to the same recipient as before.
Barclays: Have you been asked to send money to the investment on a promise of recovering 
money from an old investment? Mr P: no
Barclays: Have you clicked on a link provided on social media? Mr P: no
Barclays: Has someone asked you to open this account? Mr P: no
Barclays: Have you dealt with a broker or someone else to make this investment? Mr P: no
Barclays: How did you find out about this investment? Mr P: through a friend of mine. Ive 
already done quite a bit in investing and have done my research.
Barclays: Did you check the FCA website? Mr P: no
Barclays: Are you aware Binance has been banned in the UK? Mr P: yes
Barclays: Are you aware of the risk of this investment? Mr P: yes
Barclays: Can you afford to lose the money: Mr P: yesBarclays: We expect you to answer our questions truthfully. If this turns out to be a scam, its 
unlikely we can recover the money. Do you understand? Mr P: yes I fully understand.
Barclays: Are you satisfied youve completed enough checks on this company? Mr P: yes
The payment was then released.
These two calls were very thorough and:
- Warned Mr P of the risks of investing in bitcoin.
- Warned Mr P that the money couldnt be refunded if it was a scam.
- Asked Mr P if anyone else was involved  to which he said there wasnt (when in fact 
there was).
- Asked Mr P if hed clicked on a link from social media  to which he said he hadnt, 
when in fact he told us he had done so.
- Mr P said he had done his research  when he told us he hadnt done very much  
and took the contacts word for it. 
- Mr P said he had made such investments before. On the calls, he appeared very 
confident that he knew what he was doing. 
In support of what Mr P said on the call, I looked at his bank statements  and he made 
about 70 payments to bitcoin firms between December 2020 and May 2022, albeit for lower 
amounts - usually up to £1,000. 
We asked Mr P about the credits totalling £22,798 in July 2022 and August 2022  and he 
told us these were from his existing, previous bitcoin investment (and not refunds from the 
scam). So  it appears he was a fairly experience bitcoin investor; and this comes across in 
the calls with Barclays.
I then considered whether its reasonable that Barclays shouldve intervened in some of the 
other payments. They did intervene in the payment of £30,000 on 3 August 2022  when Mr 
Ps account was blocked and he was asked to go to a branch to unlock it. The notes say he 
did this  and the account was unblocked. So  it doesnt appear a scam conversation was 
intended then, nor did one take place. 
There isnt a recording of the call on 5 August 2022 (£39,900). Between the last call I 
listened to (5 July 2022), and the end of the scam, Mr P made further payments of £134,505, 
without any substantive or evidenced intervention from Barclays. I think its reasonable to 
say Barclays shouldve intervened in some of the payments  as the outgoings from Mr Ps 
account increased to a substantial level. 
I therefore considered what might have happened had Barclays intervened in some of these 
payments. And here, Im persuaded that Mr P would still have gone ahead. I say that - based 
on his responses to the previous intervention calls; Mr Ps confidence in his answers; and his 
prior bitcoin investment experience  he appeared as very sure that he felt he knew what he 
was doing. 
I also think its reasonable to say that the first calls were so thorough so as to persuade me 
to think that any further calls wouldve been similar in content - and Mr Ps responses 
wouldve been the same.I asked to see the WhatsApp chats between Mr P and the other person - and these show he 
was completely taken in by her and believed in the investments he thought he was making. 
He refers in the chats to his previous bitcoin experience and says he wanted to do more.
So  on balance, Im persuaded that any further interventions from Barclays wouldnt have 
stopped Mr P from making the further payments.
Therefore, I dont think its reasonable to hold Barclays liable for the amount of the 
payments.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes 
place. I looked at whether Barclays took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. I can see that Mr P contacted 
Barclays on 9 August 2022 and Barclays contacted the recipient bank provider of the crypto 
wallet on 10 August 2022. Ive seen that by then, no funds remained. So here  Barclays did 
what we would expect of them.
Im sorry Mr P has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for his losses.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman