DRN-3408838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the way Nationwide Building Society have treated them at the 
end of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with Portman Building Society, which later merged with 
Nationwide. The mortgage had parts on both a repayment and interest only basis  with the 
majority of the balance being on interest only. 
In 2019, Mr and Mrs L spoke with Nationwide about the mortgage and confirmed they didnt 
have the means to repay the balance at the end of the term. They asked to continue making 
interest payments past the mortgage term end date in 2021, but Nationwide said this 
wouldnt be possible and the mortgage balance would need to be repaid. 
Mr and Mrs L complained. They werent happy that Nationwide wouldnt allow them to 
continue making interest payments past the mortgage term end date. They referenced a 
letter they received in 2007 when they switched to interest only, saying this led them to 
believe the mortgage could continue indefinitely  as long as they made interest payments. 
Nationwide considered the complaint and issued its final response in October 2020. It 
acknowledged the letter from 2007 had some ambiguity but explained the mortgage was due 
to be repaid when the term ended in March 2021. It said the letter didnt confirm
Mr and Mrs L could continue to make interest payments for as long as they needed but that 
interest would still be charged until the mortgage is repaid. It explained its term expiry team 
would be in contact to discuss how the mortgage would be repaid. 
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service. Nationwide initially didnt provide our 
service with its consent to consider the complaint as it had been raised too late. However, 
another Ombudsman reviewed matters and decided the complaint was one our service 
could consider as it had been brought in time. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the 2007 letter and 
subsequent letters sent to Mr and Mrs L made it clear the mortgage was interest only and 
that the mortgage would need to be repaid at the end of the term. And they didnt think it 
implied that Mr and Mrs L could keep the mortgage indefinitely. They said that Nationwide 
were unable to offer what Mr and Mrs L wanted because they had no pension but explained 
there may be other options available. So, they asked Nationwide to fairly consider any future 
requests. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They explained that the 
wording from the 2007 letter was clear that they could continue making interest only 
payments after the mortgage term had ended. They also disputed the information that had 
been provided with regards to their pensions  saying they had pensions.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think it should be noted that Ive reviewed the previous Ombudsmans decision on 
what our service has powers to investigate. Ive seen nothing which makes me disagree with 
the outcome which they reached.
 
Id also like to be clear that my decision wont address every point made by either 
Mr and Mrs L or Nationwide. I mean no discourtesy by this and I would like to reassure both 
parties that Ive carefully considered all the available evidence provided. But my decision will 
focus on what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs L spoke with Nationwide as they had no means to repay the mortgage 
balance and wanted to continue to make interest payments after the term had ended. They 
say this is something which was agreed to by Portman and is outlined in a letter from 2007  
which is when they changed their mortgage to interest only. However, when they asked 
Nationwide about this, it said it wouldnt be possible and the mortgage balance would need 
to be repaid. 
Mr and Mrs L have provided a copy of the letter from 2007. The paragraph they are relying 
on is found on the page titled Have you made provisions for you and your family? under the 
subheading Interest Only Mortgages. It states:
If you cannot repay what you owe us, in full, at the end of the term, you will have to carry on 
making interest payments to us each month and you will still be responsible for repaying the 
outstanding capital.
Ive thought carefully about what this paragraph means. Having done so, I dont agree that it 
means Mr and Mrs L can indefinitely continue to make interest payments on their mortgage 
as they have suggested. Ill explain why. 
The 2007 letter also contains other information before this paragraph. It states its extremely 
important to ensure Mr and Mrs L have the means to repay the amount borrowed at the end 
of the mortgage term, and it emphasises the need to ensure any repayment plan is on track 
to repay the mortgage. I also note that Mr and Mrs L have been sent various letters and 
statements since the 2007 letter, which also confirm the mortgage is interest only and needs 
to be repaid at the end of its term. Overall, Im satisfied that Portman, and then Nationwide, 
made the position clear to Mr and Mrs L, both when they switched their mortgage to interest 
only and later during the life of the mortgage, that the mortgage would need to be repaid at 
the end of its term. 
It's unfortunate that Mr and Mrs L have taken the paragraph they refer to out of context, but I 
dont consider it means Nationwide is required to allow their mortgage to continue 
indefinitely. Im satisfied that the paragraph Mr and Mrs L refer to is not an agreement that 
they can make interest payments indefinitely. Rather, it entitles Portman  and now 
Nationwide  to require interest on the mortgage to be paid if Mr and Mrs L are unable to 
repay the capital mortgage balance at term end. 
When taking all the above into consideration, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly when it 
informed Mr and Mrs L they wouldnt be able to continue to make interest payments 
indefinitely in 2019 and asked them how they planned to repay the mortgage balance. I say 
this because I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to expect repayment of a 
mortgage, in line with the terms and conditions agreed to, once the term has ended. Where a customer is unable to repay the mortgage by the end of its term, I would expect a 
lender to engage with a customer to reach an agreement about how the mortgage will be 
repaid. Nationwide has said there may be options going forward for Mr and Mrs L, but they 
will need to speak with its term expiry team and provide further information about their 
financial circumstances. This isnt unreasonable as Nationwide, as a responsible lender, will 
need to ensure any repayment arrangement agreed is suitable and doesnt adversely affect 
Mr and Mrs L in the future. 
I note that Nationwide has previously offered Mr and Mrs L a five year term extension in 
September 2020 and this may still be available to them. However, this would be subject to 
Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances and having a credible repayment plan in place for the 
mortgage. 
Mr and Ms L have also disputed the information Nationwide has provided about their 
pensions. In particular, that it has said Mr and Mrs L are not eligible for any of its mortgages 
for people over the age of 55 as they have no pensions. Mr and Mrs L have confirmed to our 
service they do have pensions, so it might be that Nationwide is able to offer a different 
mortgage product, such as a lifetime mortgage. This is something that Mr and Mrs L will 
need to speak with Nationwide about so it can assess whether they meet its lending criteria 
for these alternative types of mortgages.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman