DRN-2769078
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim after his car was 
stolen. He wants it to pay his claim and remove records of the voidance. 
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Haven after applying online and then completing 
his sale through a broker. When his car was stolen, he tried to claim on his policy. 
But Haven declined his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr M complained, it said hed answered the questions hed been asked about his 
occupation and use of the car incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his 
claim. Mr M was unhappy with this and that it took Haven so long to make its decision. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and he thought this was deliberate or 
reckless. He thought the delay in the claim was due to Haven awaiting a police report, which 
he thought was outside its control.
Mr M doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
was still unhappy with the delay in the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Haven thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application online and to a broker that his occupation was as a student and the 
car wouldnt be used for business purposes. And Ive listened to the questions he was asked 
when he completed the application and agree he failed to take reasonable care. This is 
because he was asked what his occupation was. And he was asked would the car be used 
for business use. And I think these were clear questions asked by Haven through the broker 
Mr M used.
Mr M said he was currently studying. And he said that he wasnt using the car for business 
use. But Mr M was buying and selling cars. Haven relied on the police report that said the 
car was involved in the motor trade and that Mr M bought and sold cars. And so Haven 
thought this meant that Mr M needed a motor trade policy rather than a private policy. And I 
think this means Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he said the car wouldnt be used for business use. 
Haven has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Mr M had not made 
this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered him cover at all. This means Im satisfied that 
Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I also think Mr Ms misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Mr M said he wouldnt be using the car for business purposes, which was 
contradicted by the police report. And Mr M didnt contact Haven to provide the correct 
information about the class of use or his involvement in the motor trade.
Therefore, Im satisfied Haven was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Haven does not have to deal 
with his claim following the theft of his car. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Haven to rely on it to avoid Mr Ms 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
I can see that there were considerable delays in the claim. But these were due to Haven 
awaiting the police report. I think it was reasonable for it to require this to complete its 
investigation of the claim. And so I cant hold Haven responsible for the delays.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman