DRN-4488728
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a claim he made under his Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) pet insurance policy and the actions C&G took thereafter.
Mr H says C&G treated him unfairly. 
What happened
Mr H took out pet insurance with C&G through a comparison website. During the course of 
the sale, he was asked if his pet was a crossbreed. He answered yes to that question. Later 
in the policy year he made a claim on the insurance for treatment to his pet. When the claim 
was reviewed, it was noted that the pet- a cockapoo- was specified as a medium mongrel on 
C&Gs records and that this was incorrect. 
C&G said that Mr H had misrepresented the position to them when he took out insurance 
and that he should have specified no to the question asked about whether his dog was a 
crossbreed. They said the questions asked had an information box explaining that he should 
only select yes if the breed of his dog wasnt listed in the drop-down box below. They said 
that as cockerpoo was listed in this case so he should have selected no because his dog 
would be considered a pedigree.
C&G said that if Mr H had provided them with the correct information, the policy premium 
wouldve been higher to recognise the breed of the dog. As such they felt that Mr H had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 and that they were entitled to pay only a proportion of his claim. 
They also increased Mr Hs policy premiums to reflect what they said should have been 
payable by him had he provided them with the correct information. Unhappy, Mr H referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and concluded that C&G had not shown that 
hed not taken reasonable care when answering the questions asked of him at the point of 
sale. She said the question wasnt clear and there was no requirement for Mr H to have 
reviewed the tool setting out what he should do if he wanted more clarity on the question or 
gone on to search the box below. As such the investigator directed C&G to pay Mr Hs claim 
in full in line with the policy limits, together with interest at 8% per year simple until the claim 
is settled. She also said that C&G needed to reinstate the policy to the original premiums 
applied and refund Mr H the increased amounts charged together with interest at 8% per 
year simple. C&G doesnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against C&G for broadly the same reasons 
reached by the investigator. This is why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
C&G thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy by selecting yes to the question Is (pets name) a crossbreed? and this 
wasnt correct. They say the screen also said:
Sometimes when crossbreeds are bred together for a long time they are eventually 
considered a new pedigree breed so if youre unsure, select No and check if your dogs 
breed is listed. If your dogs breed isnt listed as a pedigree or if you dont know the breed of 
your dog, select Yes. 
The screen also goes on to say: 
Important: you may be asked by the provider to confirm the primary or both breeds of your 
pets parents if known, This can impact the process you have seen on our website.  
C&G say that Mr H has confirmed to them he was aware of the prompt and chose not to 
check whether his pet was listed in the box below. Had he done so, his dogs breed would 
have been identified as a pedigree, so he wouldve known to answer no to the earlier 
question asked of him. As such they say that he made a qualifying misrepresentation which 
was careless and had he not done so the policy would not have been offered to him on the 
premium he was paying. 
Ive looked at the question C&G asked when Mr H took out the insurance and the 
submissions hes made. Mr H says he didnt answer no to the question asked or search for 
his dogs breed in the box below because he was clear that his dog was a cross breed- it 
was a cross between a cocker spaniel and a poodle. As such he says he answered the 
question honestly and correctly. Ive thought about what hes said and looked at the screen 
carefully and I dont think he answered the question asked incorrectly. The guidance in the 
box next to the questions says so if youre unsure in relation to whether Mr Hs dog is now 
considered a pedigree, the customer should check if the dogs breed is listed. But Mr H 
wasnt unsure. He thought it was clear his dog was a cross breed and I think thats a 
reasonable assumption. The fact that C&G and or other insurers might consider the breed to 
now amount to a new pedigree isnt something he should have reasonably known. And there 
was no additional box for him to specify his dogs mixed breed, so I dont think it was 
reasonable for him to do anything other than answer the question in the way that he did.  As 
such I dont think C&Gs actions are fair or in line with CIDRA because I think Mr H took 
reasonable care and answered the question asked of him correctly based on his knowledge. 
C&G have argued that Mr H was aware of the information in the guidance box but chose not 
to search for his dog and had he done so, he wouldve seen that his dog was listed as a 
pedigree. For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I think it was reasonable for Mr H to 
conclude he didnt need to do this, because he wasnt unsure about his dog being a mixed breed. If C&G wanted to avoid this sort of situation, they needed to make their questions 
clearer or at least supply a box for customers to set out what the breed or mixed breeding of 
their pet was. The fact that they didnt do so isnt something I think Mr H is responsible for. 
Mr H has pointed out that C&G have now changed their sales process on the same 
comparison website to prompt customers to input the details of any crossbreed. I think that if 
that had been the case when he took out the policy, Mr H would have supplied these details 
and been offered insurance on the correct terms. The fact that he wasnt isnt something he 
should be prejudiced for. And Ive set out below what I think C&G should do to put things 
right.
Putting things right
C&G should:
Pay Mr Hs claim in line with the original policy terms and limits.
Reimburse Mr H for any increase in policy premiums charged and reinstate the original 
premiums until the end of the policy year.
Pay Mr H interest of 8% per year simple on any settlement sum paid out in respect of the 
claim from one month after it was made, until its settled.
Pay Mr H interest of 8% per year simple on any policy premium refunds due to him from 
the time those payments were taken, until theyre reimbursed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct C&G to put things right 
as Ive directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman