DRN-4106248
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited wont increase the sum assured on a 
Protection for Life level term life assurance policy.
What happened
Mr Bs policy began in 2016. Hes received annual plan summaries that said the plan 
provided Cover that can change with you. The summaries  including the latest one from 
2023  explain:
Your Protection for Life plan is specially designed to be able to change as you move 
through your life.
The summaries list taking on a larger mortgage as one of the reasons other customers have 
had for making changes to their plans.
With this in mind, Mr B asked Scottish Widows about topping up his policy in 2022, when 
hed taken on a larger mortgage. But they told him they couldnt increase the sum assured 
because theyd stopped selling Protection for Life policies.
Mr B complained. Scottish Widows offered him £50 compensation for the upset hed been 
caused. And they offered to put Mr B in touch with a broker who could find him a second life 
policy to cover his increased borrowing.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with that response, and brought the matter to us. I wrote a provisional 
decision last month setting out why I intended to uphold this complaint. But I also explained 
how the need to apply for a new policy didnt appear to be too different to what would have 
happened if Scottish Widows hadnt changed their process. So I limited the remedy for this 
case to acknowledging the trouble and upset caused for Mr B.
We havent had a response from Mr B to that decision, which Ive taken to mean he has 
nothing further he wants to add before I make a final decision. Scottish Widows have 
responded, saying they dont agree with me for the following reasons. 
They say there wasnt a contractual obligation for them to agree to increase cover.
They didnt feel they needed to tell customers they couldnt now increase their cover.
They felt any impact from continuing to suggest or imply cover could increase was 
mitigated by the fact other types of policy could be sold to achieve that result. 
They felt the impact on Mr B could have been less if theyd explained that better. 
Ive considered those comments, but my decision remains the same. So Im going to largely 
repeat what I wrote last time. But Ill change and add a few sentences to explain why 
Scottish Widows latest response hasnt changed my mind. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Scottish Widows have talked about contractual obligations. I can appreciate their policy had 
terms and conditions, which are typically how such obligations are set out in an agreement. 
But in order to be fair to their customers, those terms should be consistent with everything 
else Scottish Widows says about its products. 
I can accept that the terms for this policy didnt specifically say Mr B would be able to 
increase his sum assured after setting his policy up. But statements elsewhere in Scottish 
Widows information indicated he could. For example, the section Ive quoted above, which 
says the policy was specially designed to change with Mr Bs changes in life.
I understand Scottish Widows have chosen to change the way they provide life cover, such 
that they cant now increase the sum assured on the policy Mr B has. But that decision had a 
significant impact on the way this policy would work for him and other existing customers. 
So I find Scottish Widows should have done more to tell Mr B about the change when it 
happened. That would have been in keeping with the spirit of the policys provisions, which 
said customers would hear about exceptional changes in circumstances affecting the policy.
I also find it unreasonable Scottish Widows havent updated their annual plan summaries. 
The latest of these still refers to customers changing their policies after increasing their 
mortgages. That implies a change to increase the sum assured to match the increased 
borrowing is possible. 
Scottish Widows have known since 2020 that isnt now possible. In their latest response they 
accept this may have been ambiguous. I find it certainly was for Mr B, who understandably 
had the belief he could increase his cover when his mortgage increased. 
Putting things right
With that said, Ive then thought about what needs to happen here to put Mr B in the position 
he would have been in, if Scottish Widows had provided a reasonable level of service.
Ive returned to a key features document that Scottish Widows wrote for this policy. On page 
three that said:
At any time you can ask us to top-up or reduce your benefit amount
We may need more information about you, such as further medical details. If we 
agree to your request, well tell you how it affects your benefit  for example, your 
premiums may change.
That tells me Mr B may always have had to follow a similar process to the one he now faces 
 an assessment of his circumstances to determine how much more hell need to pay for the 
extra cover he wants.
I can accept Scottish Widows comments that the cost of cover under their new life 
assurance options is going to be less than it would have been under the Protection for Life 
plan. In that case, there isnt a substantial difference for Mr B.That means I cant see a need to put right any financial loss caused for Mr B. Arranging a 
new policy rather than a top-up one will get him to the position hed otherwise have been in.
But I can see Mr B is upset that his policy isnt doing what Scottish Widows told him it would. 
And I can see that by continuing to send him the annual plan summaries that dont reflect the 
true position, Scottish Widows are adding to Mr Bs frustration.
That is an impact in this case, which hasnt been mitigated to date. To acknowledge that 
impact, I find itll be reasonable for Scottish Widows to pay Mr B compensation of £350.
This reflects that if theyd told him about the changes affecting his policy back in 2020  or 
even as Scottish Widows say done a better job of explaining things in 2022  hed have 
likely been happier to accept the new policy option seemingly needed now.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint about Scottish Widows Limited. To put this matter right, they 
should pay him £350 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman