DRN-1361987
The complaint
Miss W says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Miss W took out in 2002. It was added to her 
account when she applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint because I dont think AXA gave Miss W clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because AXA didnt clearly explain the cost 
and benefits of the policy. I think this would have mattered to Miss W because she had a 
medical condition which wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt have claimed on the 
policy for everything she expected to be able to.
I dont think Miss W wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Miss W has lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
Ive taken into account AXAs comments, including what it said about the medical condition 
not affecting Miss Ws day to day life.  But I still think I should uphold the complaint. Miss W 
has described having check-ups every six months, which suggests the condition wasnt mild, 
as that would usually only involve annual reviews. So, I think that if shed understood her 
medical condition wasnt covered, she wouldnt have agreed to the PPI.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
AXA should find out how much Miss W would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss W owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.If Miss W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss W would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
If  when AXA works out what Miss W would have owed each month without PPI  Miss W 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss W 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
AXA should tell Miss W what its done to work out the settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman