DRN-2076315
The complaint
Mr S complains about the customer service he received from Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA) when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Mr S is represented in his complaint, but to keep things simple Ill refer to their actions as his 
own.
What happened
On 7 January 2019 Mr Ss car was in an accident, so he made a claim on his RSA motor 
insurance policy. On 15 January 2019 he wrote to RSA with information it had asked for.
On 18 June 2019 Mr S sent RSA a letter by recorded delivery saying he hadnt heard 
anything since hed sent his 15 January 2019 letter. He asked for an update on the claim. 
 
On 8 July 2019 Mr S sent RSA a letter by recorded delivery to complain. He said RSA hadnt 
explained the claims process, hadnt responded to his correspondence, and hadnt kept him 
updated on the claim. He also said hed received a letter from a solicitors firm which caused 
him panic and anxiety as he didnt know the status of the claim. 
Mr S didnt receive a reply from RSA, so he complained to our service in December 2019. 
Following contact from one of our investigators, RSA considered the complaint. In July 2020 
it wrote to Mr S to acknowledge it had provided poor service, apologise, and offer him £200 
compensation.
Mr S didnt think this fairly resolved the complaint. He felt more compensation was 
appropriate and thought RSA should reimburse his postage costs. Our investigator thought 
about what Mr S and RSA had said and provided. He concluded RSAs apology and offer of 
compensation was a fair resolution to the complaint. 
Mr S remained of the opinion more compensation so was appropriate. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has referred to other complaints that our service may have issued decisions on. As the 
investigator has explained, our service considers each complaint on its own merits - so I 
wont comment on any other complaint in my decision.
I think RSA should have explained the claims process to Mr S, responded to his June and 
July 2019 letters, and kept him informed about the progress of the claim. It follows I think 
RSA let Mr S down and it should compensate him for the impact its failings had on him.
I think not knowing what was happening with the claim and not receiving responses to his 
letters would have been frustrating for Mr S. I also think getting a letter from a solicitors firm 
out of the blue would have been concerning for him. 
But Im also mindful Mr Ss January 2019 letter didnt require a reply, he then didnt contact 
RSA again until June 2019, and didnt follow-up his July 2019 letter other than by contacting 
our service in December 2019. These limited actions, and the times between them, make 
me think not knowing about how the claim was progressing and not receiving responses 
didnt cause Mr S a major concern. 
Putting things right
Overall, I think £200 compensation fairly reflects the impact RSAs failings had on Mr S. I 
also consider it enough to cover the minor postage expenses Mr S has told us about.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr S £200 
compensation (if it hasnt already done so). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman