DRN-3030892
complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
with a loan in 2010. Miss O says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Miss Os 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Lloyds offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Miss O paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Os representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Os. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Os 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received, but that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Lloyds made it clear Miss O didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. I 
say this because Miss O hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt made clear. 
Also, her loan agreement had a PPI section with a box to tick to say I wish to purchase 
the PPI, a statement that said This insurance is optional and a space below to sign. On 
Miss Os agreement, the PPI box was ticked and she signed the section, separately from 
signing for the loan itself. Miss O has said she was rushed or pressured into agreeing to 
the PPI  but I havent anything else to make me think this and, on balance, what I have 
isnt enough to make me think Miss O was pressured.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss O, so it had to check the PPI was right for her. And 
the evidence about her circumstances at the time shows the cover wasnt unsuitable for 
her. For example she was eligible for it and nothing about her job or employment 
wouldve made it difficult for her to claim. Also she wouldve suffered a loss of income if 
she were unable to work for longer than her full sick pay wouldve lasted - so she had a 
need for cover and the policy benefit couldve helped her in that situation. Also I bear in 
mind that shes told us she was financially stretched, so it doesnt look like she couldve 
easily coped with a fall in income  and shes told us she had no savings to fall back on. 
The monthly cost of the PPI was set out above where Miss O signed for it, as well as the 
amount shed pay in premiums if she kept the policy for the whole of its term. Having 
carefully considered everything shes told us and all that has been said about this in the 
course of the complaint, on balance what I have doesnt persuade me the cost of the 
cover was unaffordable for Miss O.
If a health issue occurred in the first 12 months of the policy, the policy would exclude all 
claims for that health issue (except some claims at least two years later) if the issue were 
one that was occurring again and that Miss O either ought to have known of when she 
signed for the loan or had seen or arranged to see a doctor for in the 12 months before. 
I note also that while the provisions relating to past or pre-existing health issues would 
apply as well to back and mental health issues, there were no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back problems.
Lloyds notes from the sale suggest Miss O told Lloyds she had a medical condition she 
knew of and was taking prescribed medication or receiving treatment at the time, but she 
hadnt arranged to see a doctor about any health issues in the previous 12 months. The 
notes suggest that Lloyds told Miss O that aside from life cover she wouldnt be covered 
for her condition if it occurred again within 12 months of signing for the loan. The notes 
also suggest Miss O was told that the PPI cover couldnt start until her health condition 
had ended for at least 14 consecutive days or shed returned to work for that time.
I dont know what health issue Lloyds notes refer to  we asked but didnt receive more 
information about this. But Miss O has told us of having had a number of health issues 
before the sale. Of those issues, two were operations more than 20 years before the sale 
and another was an operation around 13 years before the sale and another was an issue 
investigated 12 years before the sale. Ive nothing to suggest its likely any of these were 
ongoing at the time of the sale or caused problems long after the date of treatment, such 
that Lloyds ought to have considered the possible exclusion of these as significant to the 
suitability of the cover for Miss O. 
Miss O has also told us of a health issue she first had around 20 years before the sale 
and was treated for 12 years before the sale. Shes told us she missed 2 days of work 
with this. If this issue was ongoing in nature, its unlikely Miss O couldve claimed for this 
 but given how long shed had it and how little time off work it had caused in that period, 
Im not persuaded Lloyds ought to have considered prolonged work absences from this 
so likely that their exclusion made the cover unsuitable for Miss O.
Likewise, Miss O has told us of a health issue she had eight years before the sale for 
which shes told us shes had a variety of treatments and medications. Shes told us she missed the odd day of work as a result of all this. If this issue was of an ongoing nature, 
the minimal nature of the work absences caused means my view on it would be along 
the lines of the view Ive already expressed about the health issue immediately above. 
On the other hand, if this health issue wasnt ongoing, work absences from it mightve 
been covered if it didnt recur again until a year after Miss O signed for the loan. This 
also seems to be the position for another health issue Miss O told us she had around 13 
years before the sale for which she saw a doctor and had treatment (and she hasnt told 
us of ever missing work with it) - weve no indication this recurred later before the sale. 
With all this in mind, and noting that with very limited exceptions all related claims 
wouldve been excluded if either issue recurred in the first year, what Miss O has told us 
about the two health issues above doesnt persuade me they made the policy unsuitable 
for her in light of how the policy health exclusions mightve affected related claims.
Miss O has also told us of a health issue she had around 17 years before the sale with 
which shes told us she missed a month of work in total. Ive nothing to suggest this 
health issue was ongoing or caused extended work absences in the years closer to the 
sale, and Ive discussed similar or related issues above. I note what Ive said already 
about the circumstances in which Miss O could still claim for a work absence related to 
the recurrence of a known issue, and the circumstances in which she could not. Taking 
into account everything I have, it doesnt persuade me that the likelihood of this issue 
being excluded was so great, or that the length of the possible work absences likely to 
arise would be so significant, that Lloyds ought to have considered the cover not worth 
recommending given the risk of such absences being excluded.
In summary, given what Miss O could claim for, including the circumstances in which she 
could claim if a known health issue recurred, and having taken into account all she could 
not claim for, including the circumstances in which the recurrence of a past issue would 
exclude it from cover, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to consider that the cover could 
still be useful for Miss O.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve taken 
it without at least a broad understanding of what was covered - so it looks to me like she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt unsuitable for Miss O, as I concluded above, 
and it seems to me that it wouldve been useful for her if she were unable to work in the 
circumstances it covered. Also Miss O signed for the cover in a box which also contained 
a statement of the monthly and possible total cost  so I think she agreed to the cover 
knowing those costs. Overall, and aside from the health exclusions Ive discussed above, 
I think it likely the cover was similar enough to what Miss O thought she was buying from 
the information its likely she was given. With this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont 
think Miss O wouldve declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider Miss O wouldve still taken the PPI. Given her circumstances, I think it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances 
it covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. 
And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Miss Os representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Miss Os representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Os individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Os particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Miss O about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Miss O was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss O because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMiss Os representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Miss O should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Miss O about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Miss O wouldnt have taken the 
policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Miss O in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Os representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt 
have purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission, for 
the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss O paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss O 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken if Lloyds had done everything 
it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloyds payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances. Lloyds has told us it paid 
this redress to Miss O in April 2018.
As Lloyds has already paid Miss O compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further.
Im grateful to Miss O for her courtesy and attention during our consideration of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Os complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Miss O an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman