DRN-3754295
The complaint
Mr O and Mr E Ms complaint about Openwork Limited (OL) relates to the time it took to 
process their residential mortgage application. They also believe they were misled and lied 
to.
What happened
Mr O and Mr E M first contacted OL in November 2021 to discuss the options for a mortgage 
but were told at that time to wait until Mr OM had received his form SA302 (evidence of 
earnings) for the tax year ending 2021. 
Mr O and Mr E M approached OL again in January 2022 to begin their mortgage application 
and were told what supporting documents they would be required to produce. Form SA 302 
was received by OL on 31 January, but as it was incorrect an amended version was required 
which was received on 9 February.
Mr O and Mr E M discussed with OL that they might want to have their respective wives 
added to the mortgage application. They ultimately decided against this however and in mid-
March told OM that the application was to proceed in their names alone. 
A decision in principle (DIP) was received from a lender but was not acceptable to Mr O and 
Mr E M. A DIP from a different lender, AB, was received on 18 April with which Mr O and Mr 
E M were happy, and on 22 April instructed OL to submit an application which it did two 
working days later on 26 April.
AB contacted OL on 9 May requesting additional documentation from Mr O and Mr E M and 
that was provided the same day. Also that day, a valuation of the property was arranged for 
26 May.
OL denied they had caused a delay to the application process or misled or lied to Mr O and 
Mr E M. They said that once Mr O and Mr E M had agreed to proceed with an application to 
AB on 22 April, the application was submitted promptly resulting in AB completing their initial 
underwriting checks on 11 May. All of that was completed within ABs turnaround times 
which OL had made clear to Mr O and Mr E M.
Mr O and Mr E M were unhappy with OLs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that OL hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr O and Mr E M didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Looking at the available evidence it is clear that Mr O and Mr E M gave the go ahead to OM 
to submit an application to AB on 22 April 2022. This they agree. OM sent the application to 
AB within two working days and I cant therefore say that this was done in an unreasonable 
time period. 
On 9 May Mr O M called OL to enquire about the mortgage but at that time the valuation had 
not been arranged. However, after that call, but on the same day, AB confirmed to OL that a 
valuation had been arranged for the 26 May. OL called Mr EM that day to tell him that news, 
following it up with an email the following day. 
I can see that the time period between 22 April and 26 May is quite long, but the arranging of 
the valuation was something outside of OLs control as it was AB who arranged it. Any delay 
in this respect, such as there may be, cannot therefore be the fault of OL.
Mr O and Mr E M have also complained about a general delay and OL repeatedly asking for 
documentation, but the history to the application shows that there were a great many 
changes from the day OL were first approached in November 2021. 
To begin with, Mr O and Mr E M were advised in November 2021 to wait until form SA 302 
was received, and duly did so. That seems to me to have been reasonable since it was 
unlikely that the application could have proceeded without that document. When it was 
received, in January 2022, it was incorrect and required amendment. That was through no 
fault of OL.  
Further, Mr O and Mr E M explored the possibility of their wives being a party to the 
mortgage, which required the collation of further documents, but they ultimately decided 
against. That added to the delay, and again was not something which can be attributed to 
OL. 
When the first DIP was obtained this wasnt acceptable to Mr O and Mr E M for no doubt 
good reason. But that led to further time being spent in making the second application to AB, 
which again cannot be the fault of OL.
Mr O and Mr E M were asked to provide more documents after they had submitted their 
application, but this was a specific request by AB and again something which is outside the 
control of OL. AB are entitled to ask for such documentation as they need to satisfy their own 
lending criteria and OL cannot be responsible for ABs requirements.
So, although Mr O and Mr E M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say OL 
has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman