DRN-1515159
The complaint
Mr L complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. wont allow him to transfer his tyre and alloy wheel motor insurance policy to a new car 
or provide him with a refund of his premium. 
What happened
Mr L took out a three-year tyre and alloy wheel policy from Mapre. The policy ran for nine 
months and Mr L made one small claim in this time. He then changed his car and wanted to 
transfer the policy to it. But Mapfre declined to do this or to provide a refund of premium.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy stated clearly that the cover wasnt transferable to other cars. He also thought it stated 
that a refund of premium wouldnt be given if a valid claim had been made. 
Mr L replied that he thought the terms and conditions were unfair. He said hed replaced his 
car with another of the same model and his motor insurer had transferred his policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration. He said his dealer told him that Mapfre provided similar 
cover to his previous insurer. So he bought a three-year policy even though he changed his 
cars more often. He then changed his car after nine months and thought hed be able to 
transfer the remaining policy to his new car. But Mapfre said he couldnt do this. It also said 
that because hed made a small claim, no refund was due. 
The investigator has already explained that were not the regulator. So we dont assess 
products offered by insurers. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the 
insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think Mr Ls policy states clearly that the cover isnt transferable to another car. This is set 
out in the policy Conditions section. 
It also states in the Cancellation section that a refund of premium wont be given if a valid 
claim has been made. I dont think this is unusual when a claim has been made and so the 
policy has been used. I can see that Mr L made a claim for £72 for a repair. 
I think Mr L would have been provided with his policy terms and conditions when he first took 
out the cover. He could then have cancelled the policy within the cooling off period if it didnt 
suit his needs. 
So I think Mapfre drew the policy terms and conditions reasonably to Mr Ls attention when 
he bought the policy. I think the terms about non-transfer and cancellation are reasonably 
clear. So I cant say that its unfair for Mapfre to apply them.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman