DRN-1664817
 
The complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by MBNA Limited.
Background
Mr H took out a credit card with MBNA in 1999 by post. At the same time, MBNA sold Mr H a 
PPI policy to help protect his card repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment.
The adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. MBNA disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
MBNA didnt advise Mr H to buy the policy, so it didnt need to look into whether the policy 
was right for him. But it still had to make sure Mr H had enough clear information so he could 
decide for himself  whether it was right for him. I dont think MBNA did this.
When MBNA told Mr H about costs and benefits of the policy I cant see that it explained all 
the costs involved. For example, that Mr H would still have to pay the PPI premiums even 
while he was claiming. And that the cost of the policy would be added to Mr Hs credit card 
balance and that hed pay interest on it. The policy would've cost Mr H £0.68 per month per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance and paid off 3% of the outstanding monthly balance 
for up to 24 months per successful claim for accident and sickness and up to 12 months per 
successful unemployment claim.
Mr H said he had around three to six months' worth of pay in savings. He said he wouldn't 
have got any sick pay from his employer.  MBNA said Mr H had given inconsistent 
information about his circumstances because when it asked him on the phone about his 
savings at the time the policy was sold, he said he didn't have any.  I think the information Mr 
H gave this service about his savings is plausible and given how much time has passed it's 
perhaps not unsurprising that Mr H doesn't have any paperwork now to show this. So, I think 
if the costs and benefits involved in the PPI had been made clear, Mr H likely wouldnt have 
thought it was good value for money and he probably wouldnt have bought the policy.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr Hs lost out as a result of what MBNA did wrong 
and that it should put things right for him.
Putting things rightMBNA should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.    MBNA should find out how much Mr H would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mr H owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
B.    MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.   If  when MBNA works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI       Mr 
H paid more than enough to clear his balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H would have 
owed MBNA something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require MBNA Limited to put things right as 
explained above.
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman