DRN-1212425
 
The complaint
Mr A complains because Inter Partner Assistance SA ("IPA") hasn't paid a claim for missing 
personal belongings and money under his travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims. 
What happened 
Mr A holds a travel insurance policy, provided by IPA. 
While on holiday abroad, Mr As flight was cancelled. After travelling to and from a different 
airport in an attempt to arrange a new flight, Mr A slept in the airport where he was originally 
due to depart from. After checking in for his new flight the following morning, Mr A noticed a 
phone and wallet were missing from his bag. 
On his return to the UK, Mr A registered a claim for the missing items under his policy with 
IPA. 
IPA said Mr As claim wasnt covered. It said he hadnt reported his claim to the local police 
or to the airline in line with the requirements of his policy. IPA also said Mr A hadnt provided 
evidence showing ownership of the wallet or money, or any evidence such as a letter from 
his network provider showing the phone had been barred. 
Unhappy, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He said hed reported the matter to the 
police on his return to the UK and had provided IPA with all the evidence he had. Mr A said 
the phone was used only for watching videos and listening to music while travelling and it 
wasnt linked to a network, so he was unable to report the phone as missing to any provider. 
Our investigator recommended that IPA should pay Mr As claim. IPA didnt agree, so the 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy provide cover for lost, stolen or damaged personal 
belongings, money and travel documents.  
IPA says Mr As claim isnt covered for two reasons. The first is because Mr As policy has 
an exclusion which says the policyholder is not covered for:
3) Loss or theft not reported to the police or provider of Your transport or 
accommodation within 48 hours and a report obtained.Its not in dispute that Mr A didnt report the loss to the local police. However, in the 
circumstances, I can understand why it would have been difficult for Mr A to do this. Mr As 
flight had been cancelled the previous evening. After travelling to a different airport in an 
attempt to find an alternative flight, Mr A then travelled back to the original airport and slept 
there while waiting for a new flight the following morning. 
After checking in for his flight and having gone through the gate, Mr A realised his wallet and 
phone were missing. Given the difficulties Mr A had experienced in obtaining a new flight 
and the point at which he discovered his items were missing, I dont think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr A to remain abroad and miss his flight for the sole reason of reporting his 
missing items to the local police. 
Mr A has provided evidence to show that he did report the matter to the police in the UK on 
his return. Mr A has explained the difficulties he encountered in attempting to obtain a written 
police report in the UK and, in my experience of dealing with claims of this type, I dont think 
its surprising that he was unable to obtain one. 
I dont think its likely Mr As failure to report the matter to the police abroad has 
disadvantaged IPA and Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, that Mr A reported 
the missing items to the UK police and made extensive attempts to obtain a more detailed 
report from them. 
I dont think Mr As failure to report the matter to the airline has disadvantaged IPA either. Mr 
As bag wasnt in the possession of the airline and theres no suggestion the items were lost 
or stolen while Mr A was on the plane. 
This means I dont think its fair or reasonable for IPA to rely on the above policy exclusion to 
turn down Mr As claim. 
IPA has said Mr A doesnt know how the items came to be missing but, taking into account 
the circumstances that led up to Mr A arranging for a new early morning flight and given that 
he was in a busy airport, I dont think this is particularly unusual. Mr As policy covers both 
loss and theft, so I dont think Mr As lack of knowledge about exactly how his items came to 
be missing makes any difference to the outcome of his claim. 
The second policy exclusion which IPA has relied on in turning down Mr As claim says the 
policyholder is not covered for:
Claims which are not supported by the original receipt, proof of ownership or 
insurance valuation (obtained prior to the loss) of the items lost, stolen or damaged. 
Its not always fair or reasonable to expect a policyholder to be able to demonstrate proof of 
ownership of each and every item claimed for. If a policyholder has provided evidence 
showing ownership of some items claimed for then I might, in certain circumstances, think 
its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept this as evidence supporting the entirety of the 
claim. 
Mr A has, in my opinion, provided a consistent and detailed account of the items he is 
claiming for. 
In relation to the phone, Mr A says this was a second phone which he didnt use for making 
calls. He says he had this phone for use while travelling, to watch videos and listen to music 
as it has a bigger screen. Mr A says he doesnt know the number of this phone and used a 
pay-as-you-go SIM card in it to access the wifi abroad, so he is unable to provide 
confirmation from any network provider that the phone has been barred. Mr A has provided an email showing he purchased the phone from a website in June 2017. The email shows 
the type of phone purchased and the amount paid for it. So, Im satisfied that Mr A has 
demonstrated ownership of the phone and I think he has provided a reasonable and 
plausible explanation for why he is unable to obtain any evidence from a network provider 
about the phone. 
Mr A has provided a picture from the internet showing a wallet similar in type to the wallet he 
owned. He says he bought this wallet a few years ago and used it for travelling and days out, 
but no longer has the receipt. I dont think its necessarily unusual that Mr A is unable to 
provide evidence showing ownership of the wallet, given how long Mr A had the wallet and 
the circumstances in which he says he used it. 
Mr A is also claiming for foreign currency. He says he bought some of this in the UK in cash 
before travelling as he usually does, but the receipt was in the missing wallet. Mr A says the 
remainder of the foreign currency was left over from a trip he took earlier that month. While 
Id usually expect to see some evidence in support of a claim for missing money, based on 
the particular circumstances of Mr As case, Im satisfied this isnt possible. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the loss occurred in the way Mr A 
described. Mr A has provided evidence that he reported the matter to the police in the UK 
and has evidenced ownership of a large part of his claim  the missing phone. 
So, overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for IPA to pay Mr As 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay Mr As claim, subject to any applicable policy limits 
and/or excess. Inter Partner Assistance SA should add interest to the claim payment at 8% 
simple per annum from the date of the loss until the date settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman