DRN-4154463
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was unable to log in to his on-line banking account with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC and had to visit a branch to provide identification and proof of address. 
What happened
Mr J had been using his Barclays on-line banking account for a number of years, but when 
he attempted to use the service in late 2022, he received a message saying Barclays didnt 
hold enough information to register the account. After several attempts to resolve the matter 
on the telephone, Barclays told Mr J that he must attend a branch in person and bring with 
him two forms of identification and proof of his address. Mr J complained to Barclays about 
being unable to access on-line banking and that he hadnt been told why hed only now been 
asked to provide the information requested.
Barclays said it believed his identification and address had been removed from the system 
but couldnt explain how this had happened. Barclays accepted responsibility for the error 
and apologised. Barclays also apologised that it hadnt returned Mr Js calls when he initially 
reported the problems he was experiencing. Barclays offered Mr J £100 for the 
inconvenience its poor service had caused him.
Mr J brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator acknowledged that Mr J now had access to 
his on-line banking but thought Barclays offer of £100 and an apology was a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the complaint. Mr J thought that Barclays should pay a higher 
amount than £100 and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr J will be disappointed but for very much the same reasons provided by 
the Investigator Ive decided that the offer Barclays has already made to Mr J is a fair and 
reasonable one. I will now explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr J was unable to access his on-line banking and that Barclays 
failed to call Mr J back when it should reasonably have done so. Barclays accepts its likely a 
system error caused Mr J to lose access to his on-line banking account. So, I dont need to 
consider whether Barclays has done anything wrong here  I only need to consider whether 
the remedy Barclays offered is a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances of this case.
Mr J says the explanation provided by Barclays suggests that it doesnt know what caused 
the error. Mr J says that hes seen a number of similar issue have affected Barclays 
customers over recent year and suggests that this is an ongoing issue. I acknowledge Mr Js 
strong views in this regard, but Im only considering Mr Js complaint and the circumstances 
surrounding it and, in this case, Barclays accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. The 
notes Ive seen show that Barclays investigated what happened in Mr Js case and 
concluded it was likely a business system error that caused Mr J to lose access to his on-line 
banking account. I appreciate Mr J may not accept this, but I find its a reasonable 
explanation and I wont be asking Barclays to do anything else in this regard.
Barclays apologised for the poor service it provided and offered to pay Mr J £100 for the 
inconvenience hed suffered. In Mr Js case, Barclays didnt return calls to Mr J and Mr J had 
to go into a branch to provide new identification and proof of address documents. Mr J says 
he had to take a days holiday to enable him to attend the branch and he had parking 
charges. That may be the case, but I dont think the overall impact on Mr J was significant. 
Using financial services wont always be totally hassle free and we wouldnt award for things 
that arent more serious than the normal nuisances of everyday life. So just because theres 
been a mistake it doesnt necessarily follow that we would always award compensation  
especially when the impact is minimal. In this case, Mr J still had access to telephone 
banking to help him manage his affairs and he visited a local branch that was a reasonable 
distance from his home to provide the documents Barclays required. Im satisfied Mr J was 
inconvenienced by Barclays poor service and that a financial remedy, along with an apology, 
is appropriate. However, in this case, I think Barclays offer of £100 is a fair and reasonable 
one.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay Mr J £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman