DRN-1047452
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H's complaint relates to the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited's handling of Mr H's claim for temporary total disability.  
What happened
Last year, Mr H required a total knee replacement which left him unable to tend to his farm. 
Mr and Mrs H first made contact with NFUM to enquire about making a claim for temporary 
total disablement on 12 March 2019. 
NFUM made contact with Mr and Mrs H within a few days to gather more information. It said 
it wasn't able to confirm cover right away because it sounded like Mr H's osteoarthritis had 
developed gradually over time. It highlighted that the policy requires an illness to lead to 
temporary total disablement within two years for a claim to be successful. Mrs H wasn't 
happy with this and felt the timing of the call, which closely followed Mr H's surgery, was 
tactless. It also turned out that NFUM had sent an 'accident' claim form so it had to arrange 
for a 'sickness' claim form to be sent instead. 
Mr and Mrs H submitted the completed claim form, which contained information from Mr H's 
GP, to their local branch at the start of April 2019. Mr and Mrs H didn't hear anything in 
response, so they chased NFUM via their local branch on 8 May 2019 and 9 May 2019 and 
were told someone would contact them with an update. They managed to get through to 
someone on 16 May 2019 having heard nothing further. They were told a decision hadn't 
been made yet but someone agreed to call them back in a few days.
On 20 May 2019 NFUM told Mr and Mrs H it felt the claim should be declined because Mr H 
hadn't let it know about his osteoarthritis even though the doctor said he'd suffered from it in 
2013 and 2014. And if he had they would have excluded it from cover. Mrs H disagreed that 
there had been any diagnosis prior to 2018 and agreed to get a letter from the GP to clarify 
this. She was disappointed that NFUM hadn't appeared to make any attempt to contact the 
GP given that they'd authorised it to do so. Despite Mrs H's expressions of dissatisfaction, 
no complaint was logged. 
Mr and Mrs H spoke to their GP on 28 May 2019, who said NFUM should request the 
information they needed directly. Mr and Mrs H said they informed NFUM of this straight 
away but it didn't email the health centre until 7 June 2019. It chased the health centre for a 
response on 12 June 2019 but nothing had been drafted yet. Around this time Mrs H asked if 
she should have heard from the complaints team yet. It became clear that no complaint had 
been logged. NFUM therefore logged one on 14 June 2019 and treated it as if it had been 
logged on 20 May 2019. A complaint handler called Mr and Mrs H shortly after this. 
Mr and Mrs H actively chased the health centre. By 26 June 2019 it became clear that the 
health centre no longer had the original email. Mrs H notified NFUM of this who then hand 
delivered a further copy of the information request. Both NFUM and Mr and Mrs H continued 
to chase the health centre after this. In the interim, NFUM sent its final response letter. It awarded £50 compensation but failed to enclose the cheque, which subsequently had to 
be resent. 
The GP finalised the letter on 8 July 2019 and it was passed to NFUM shortly afterwards. 
The letter suggested that NFUM had been made aware of Mr H's osteoarthritis in 2001. 
Upon review of this, it appeared Mr H had complied with his duty of disclosure and NFUM 
had failed to amend the policy to exclude osteoarthritis or adjust the premium to reflect this. 
It agreed to honour the claim and apply the exclusion from the following renewal. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and wanted NFUM to explain its poor handling of the claim 
and apologise. One of our investigators persuaded NFUM to send Mr and Mrs H a letter of 
apology. However, Mr and Mrs H later said they weren't satisfied with this and thought 
further compensation was due. Our investigator didn't think NFUM needed to do anything 
more. Mr and Mrs H requested an ombudsman's decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The regulator's rules require NFUM to 
handle claims promptly and fairly, and to provide the policyholder with appropriate 
information on its progress. It's clear that at times during its handling of Mr H's claim, NFUM 
fell short of these requirements. 
Things didn't get off to a great start when NFUM sent Mr and Mrs H the wrong claim form. 
Given the requirements described above, I think it was reasonable for NFUM to have 
contacted Mr H shortly after the surgery to gather information. And given that Mr H had 
suffered from joint pain in his right knee for some time, I think NFUM did the right thing by 
highlighting that his policy required an illness to lead to disablement in a certain timeframe. 
This is common with personal accident cover so it was right to manage expectations.
There's some dispute around exactly what date the claim form was sent to NFUM. There's a 
timestamp on the copy I've seen which suggests NFUM received it on 2 April 2019. It was 
escalated on 11 April 2019 because the GP had intimated Mr H had previously suffered from 
osteoarthritis in 2013 and 2014. This indicated that the osteoarthritis hadn't led to 
disablement within two years. And NFUM couldn't see that it had been made aware of the 
osteoarthritis even though it had asked Mr H to disclose any injury, illness, disease or 
physical problem at each subsequent renewal. 
Internally, NFUM noted that it would likely have excluded Mr H's osteoarthritis if it had been 
made aware of it. And there was provision for it to apply the exclusion retrospectively if Mr H 
had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. In my view, given the 
policy terms, it was reasonable for NFUM to have explored these issues further. However, I 
agree that it didn't do so particularly promptly. 
It doesn't appear that an underwriter picked up the referral until 1 May 2019, around three 
weeks later. The underwriter noted Mr H had made a claim in 2014 and enquired whether 
his osteoarthritis should have been apparent to NFUM from its review of that claim. 
Unfortunately, no-one seemed to explore the answer to this question until 16 May 2019. 
There are chunks of inactivity in this timeline, without which the claim likely would have been 
progressed weeks earlier. It's noteworthy that  Mr and Mrs H weren't proactively updated 
during this period. It's unsurprising that they began to chase NFUM for news. 
NFUM flagged the outstanding issues on 20 May 2019 and it was agreed that Mrs H would 
ask the GP to confirm the date of first diagnosis. I recognise Mrs H feels NFUM should just 
have contacted the GP for itself if there was any confusion. But it was entitled to take the GP's comments, that Mr H had suffered from osteoarthritis since 2013, at face value. It was 
only when Mrs H disputed there was an actual diagnosis in 2013 that it became appropriate 
to seek clarification in my view. 
I'm minded to accept Mrs H's testimony that she let NFUM know it needed to 
request information directly from the GP on 28 May 2019 given the accuracy of her timeline. 
I know Mrs H was told NFUM didn't request information until 12 June 2019. But I've seen a 
copy of the email and it's dated 7 June 2019. I accept there was still a further delay here 
though. Having said that, I'm not sure NFUM could have done anything more to expedite a 
response from the GP after that. 
Both Mr and Mrs H and NFUM were proactive in chasing the GP for a response. 
NFUM hand delivered a second information request when it became clear that the first one 
had been lost. This was signed for by the health centre on the same day Mrs H asked NFUM 
if it could be resent. Again, both Mr and Mrs H and NFUM chased the GP for a response 
after this, which wasn't written until 8 July 2019 or delivered until a few days later. I don't 
consider that NFUM carries any responsibility for the actions of the health centre, or the 
delays between 7 June 2019 and 11 July 2019. I appreciate Mrs H became very frustrated 
with NFUM during that time but I'm not sure what more it could have done. 
The GP's response suggested NFUM was made aware of Mr H's osteoarthritis in 2001. This 
seems to have reassured NFUM there had been no misrepresentation. And I think it took a 
pragmatic view of the fact that the osteoarthritis was clearly longstanding and hadn't led to 
disablement within two years. It chose not to rely on this on the basis that it should have 
applied an exclusion for osteoarthritis around the time it was disclosed and amended the 
premium accordingly. As it hadn't done that, it felt it couldn't reasonably decline the claim. 
There were further issues in NFUM's handling of the matter. It's accepted it should have 
logged a complaint on 20 May 2019. But I was pleased to see that when it did log a 
complaint it treated it as if it had been logged on that date and responded in the eight-week 
time period permitted by the regulator. It also failed to enclose a cheque with a letter which 
followed its final response letter but this was rectified promptly. 
At Mr and Mrs H's request I have listened to the available recordings of calls they made to 
NFUM. I've already mentioned that NFUM could have handled the claim more promptly and 
should have updated Mr and Mrs H more proactively. And I agree that there were some calls 
where updates were vague or inconsistent. But on the whole, I don't consider that anyone Mr 
and Mrs H spoke to at NFUM was deliberately obstructive or unhelpful.
In deciding whether NFUM needs to do anything further to rectify the share of the delays it 
can be held responsible for, I think it's relevant to consider that it appears to have set aside 
an exclusion which, on the face of it, is relevant to the claim. In addition, it has apologised to 
Mr and Mrs H and conceded that it could have handled things more efficiently, which is the 
settlement they originally requested, and paid compensation. I understand Mr and Mrs H feel 
strongly that they were poorly treated. But I think NFUM's award fairly reflects the impact of 
its handling of the matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I make no further award to Mr and Mrs H.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Mike WalkerOmbudsman