DRN-1353208
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax didn't send a copy of its revised 
mortgage offer to him or his solicitor. As a result he had to pay his solicitor an extra £180 for 
additional work that was needed to complete his purchase in time. Mr R wants Halifax to 
refund the additional amount he had to pay to his solicitor and the £999 fee he paid to 
Halifax.
What happened
Mr R accepted a broker's recommendation that he should take a mortgage with Halifax. 
Halifax says it sent an offer on 20 August 2019. Mr R changed the amount he was 
borrowing. Halifax says that it sent a revised offer to both Mr R and his solicitor on 20 
September 2019.
On 23 October 2019, Mr R told Halifax that his solicitor hadn't received the offer. A new offer 
was sent out and the mortgage completed on 24 October 2019. Mr R says he has incurred 
additional solicitor's costs for the additional work involved in obtaining the revised offer at the 
last minute.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R didn't accept what the 
investigator said. He said there was no evidence the revised offer was received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't know whether Mr R or his solicitor received the revised offer or not. I am only looking 
at what Halifax did or not do in relation to this complaint - and deciding whether it has acted 
fairly and reasonable. To do that I must consider all the available evidence and decide what 
on balance is most likely to have happened.
Halifax has provided copies of the revised mortgage offers for Mr R dated 20 September 
2019. They are correctly addressed to Mr R and his solicitor. Halifax has also given us a 
copy of a screenshot which shows all of the documents that were printed in relation to Mr R's 
mortgage. It shows that two mortgage offers were printed on 20 September 2019. I think it is 
likely that Halifax produced two mortgage offers on 20 September. It is also more likely than 
not that Halifax sent those documents.
I consider on balance, Halifax is more likely to have sent the revised mortgage offers to Mr R 
and his solicitor. That is not to say that both Mr R and the solicitor received them. But the 
evidence I have does not support that was because of any mistake by Halifax.
There was no requirement for Halifax to check if an offer had been received. I think it was 
reasonable for Halifax to think that the potential borrower and/or their solicitor would be in 
touch if they hadn't received the mortgage offer they were expecting. As it didn't hear anything it had no reason to think it hadn't been received. And when Halifax was told the 
offer hadn't been received it acted quickly to send another copy.
After carefully considering all of the evidence we have, I consider that Halifax has acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Ken Rose
Ombudsman