DRN-4272548
The complaint
Mr K complains about the length of time James Hay Administration Company Limited took in 
transferring his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to Prudential. 
Hed like James Hay to recompense him for the losses he says hes incurred because of 
their delays.
What happened
Mr K held a SIPP administrated by James Hay where the underlying monies were invested 
by Kleinwort Hambros under a discretionary fund manager (DFM) arrangement. In October 
2020, James Hay received a request from Prudential to transfer his monies to them in cash. 
A week later, James Hay wrote to the investment manager asking them to sell Mr Ks 
underlying holdings.
The investment manager never received that letter, so James Hay emailed them on 21 
October 2020. The first tranche of cash was eventually received into the SIPP bank account 
seven days later and the second tranche two days after that. On 26 November 2020, James 
Hay transferred the cash to Prudential which they received on 2 December 2020. 
Mr K decided to formally complain to James Hay on 4 December 2021. He said in summary, 
he was unhappy with the length of time it took James Hay to move his funds to Prudential  
particularly the fact theyd only transferred his monies two days earlier. He said hed lost out 
financially because of their delays.
Unbeknown to Mr K, when James Hay sent the monies to Prudential, they subsequently 
discovered theyd sent £2,000 too much so they asked Prudential to refund those funds. 
However, Prudential were unable to debit the £2,000 and needed James Hay to recall the 
funds and resend the correct amount, which they did, with Prudential receiving the correct 
amount on 5 January 2021. Prudential then invested Mr Ks monies into their PruFund 
Growth Series E on 25 January 2021.
In February 2021, James Hay asked Mr K for evidence of any losses hed suffered because 
of their delays and the following month they responded to his complaint. They concluded 
theyd not delivered the service theyd typically aim to provide. They also said in summary,
had his pension not suffered the delays, they thought his transfer shouldve been 
completed by 13 November 2020. James Hay said that meant Mr K had suffered a loss 
of £6,845.
Unhappy with their response, Mr K asked James Hay to look at his complaint again. He said 
in summary, he thought James Hay couldve transferred his pension sooner than the 13 
November 2020. He also explained theyd not taken account of further changes in the 
PruFunds unit price. He was also concerned theyd not taken account of advice fees nor 
considered the inconvenience the delays had caused him. Finally, he wasnt happy that 
James Hay said that any payment they made would be net of an adjustment for basic rate 
tax.
Having revisited his complaint, James Hay revised their redress offer to £43,205 and offered 
him £500 for the trouble and upset theyd caused. Mr K explained that he remained unhappy 
that James Hay hadnt calculated the redress from 26 October 2020, the point at which he 
felt the transfer shouldve occurred had it not been for their delays.
As Mr K was unhappy with James Hays wider response, he referred his complaint to this 
service. In summary, he said James Hays offer of £500 for the trouble and upset theyd 
caused him was too low. In addition, he also explained that he thought the transfer couldve 
been done sooner and said that the point from which James Hay calculated their redress 
(April 2021), should be recalculated to the following month to take account of a further uplift 
in Prudentials unit prices.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that James 
Hay had treated Mr K fairly. Having looked at the timeline and respective calculations that 
James Hay shared with her, she felt their redress placed Mr K back into the position he 
wouldve been in had it not been for the respective delays. She also felt the £500 James Hay 
offered for the inconvenience Mr K suffered looked fair. And in respect of the notional tax 
adjustment James Hay explained theyd need to deduct from the redress payment if it wasnt 
sent to Mr Ks pension, our Investigator explained that was typical in such circumstances.
Mr K disagreed with our Investigators findings and he repeated the same concerns. But our 
Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe Mr K had presented 
any new arguments shed not already considered or responded to previously. So, Mr K then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering Mr Ks concerns, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
was planning on upholding the complaint. As such, I wanted to give both parties the 
opportunity to respond. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in full below.
My provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr K has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this, our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the core issues here  and having done so, 
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
I can understand Mr Ks frustration the transfer of his pension didnt proceed as quickly as he 
felt it should have. In complex transfers such as that of a SIPP, the sending scheme is reliant 
on several third parties to complete the switch. Whats also important to note is this 
complaint is about the actions of James Hay rather than anyone else, so Ill only be focusing 
on any shortcomings from the service theyve provided Mr K.
Delays in transferring from James Hay to PrudentialTheres no doubt James Hay took longer than they typically would do when transferring Mr 
Ks fund to Prudential. Theyve admitted as much. However, the important aspect of this 
complaint is how long should they have taken and whats considered reasonable. Mr K 
thinks the transfer shouldve been undertaken by 26 October 2020, so three weeks from 
when James Hay received the original transfer request. However, James Hay have 
explained they believe in normal circumstances they wouldve expected to have completed 
the transfer by 13 November 2020. In scenarios such as these, I cant say for certain what 
wouldve happened had the delays not occurred so I have to decide whats most likely to 
have happened on the balance of probability. And, having carefully considered the timeline, 
Im minded to agree with James Hay. The prospective timeline that Mr K put forward gives 
best case scenario assuming everything moved in tandem and every part of the chain 
responded immediately. Typically that rarely happens, particularly where monies are 
invested via third party DFM providers. 
James Hay cant be held responsible for the delays of others, the time it took the DFM 
provider to respond to their original request or the fact that Prudential delayed sending back 
the transfer proceeds. However, had James Hay emailed the DFM originally rather than 
using the postal system on 12 October 2020 that delay could likely have been shortened by 
around 10 days. Thats because as Ive already explained above, James Hay received the 
cash from the DFM on 29 October after chasing them by email on 22 October. They then 
sent those monies to Prudential on 26 November. Therefore it follows that a reasonable 
transfer date would be 13 November. That would give James Hay an appropriate time to 
complete the necessary due diligence and respective controls its expected to undertake 
before transferring a pension away. 
I should note that had James Hay not miscalculated the switch amount, the funds wouldnt 
have needed to be recalled from Prudential. As Mr Ks pension was being invested in the 
PruFund Growth Series E, initially the monies are placed into a holding fund prior to 
investment. Those monies are then invested into the PruFund Growth Series E at a single 
point each month. As Mr Ks monies wouldve arrived with Prudential at or around 13 
November 2020, the next available point for investment in that fund wouldve been 25 
November.
James Hay provided an updated redress offer to Mr K on 11 May 2021 which took account 
of the movement from the holding fund to the main PruFund Growth Series E on 25 
November 2020. In reaching the settlement figure, James Hay compared the number of 
units the consumer would have got had the funds been invested in November 2020 with the 
number of units that Mr K actually got when the money was sent in January 2021. They then 
worked out the cost of buying those missing units as at the date of calculation (which was 
22 April 2021). Im of the view that calculation approach seems fair and reasonable and is a 
method I wouldve asked them to adopt had they not already done so. In his email of 24 May 
2021, Mr K explained that his IFA had sent James Hays calculations to Prudential who had 
validated the £43,205 result James Hay had reached. Mr K explained that he was only 
happy to accept that figure assuming Prudential didnt undertake a unit price adjustment on 
25 May 2021. However, they subsequently did and Mr K argued James Hay should revisit 
their loss calculation from 22 April to take account of Mays uplift. James Hay didnt agree. 
Thats because they said, had Prudential revised their unit prices downward, they would 
have stood by their redress offer and wouldnt have reduced it.
Whilst I can understand James Hays position in wishing to lock down their liability promptly, 
I dont think that latter approach was fair to the consumer. Thats because Mr K only found 
himself in this position because of James Hays mistake. So it seems to me, had they 
transferred his fund when they shouldve done (in November 2020), he wouldve benefited 
from Mays unit price uplift. Also, in trying to rectify the consumers complaint, James Hay 
made errors in its original calculations which delayed Mr Ks pension being put right. It therefore seems only reasonable that Mr K didnt want to accept whatever offer James Hay 
subsequently put in front of him without first checking with his adviser and Prudential. Even 
putting that to one side, consumers are allowed to reject offers and bring their complaints to 
ourselves. The remit of this service is to place consumers back into the position they 
wouldve been in had it not been for the original mistakes of the business. Whilst I think the 
approach the business took in calculating Mr Ks losses was reasonable, (and James Hay 
have limited their losses because the bulk of the transfer has been invested since early 
2021) - I am upholding this aspect of his complaint. Thats because theres no doubt Mr K 
found himself in this position because of James Hays mistakes, theyve admitted as much. 
So consequently, its incumbent on them to put things right for him by correcting his losses 
up to date. As such, I require James Hay to run an updated loss calculation up to the date of 
my final decision.
Notional tax deduction on redress payment
Mr K is unhappy that if James Hay were to pay him the redress directly, theyd have to make 
a deduction for tax. Its important to explain here that at the time, James Hay were simply 
following standard industry practice. That is to say, by paying the redress into the plan, it 
would have eventually provided Mr K with a taxable income. But, by paying the money 
directly to Mr K and making the 20% deduction, James Hay were notionally allowing for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr K wouldnt be able 
to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid. However, its likely that Mr K 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum from his pension so, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Its important that a notional adjustment for tax is made so the consumer isnt 
overcompensated. Were a quick and informal dispute resolution service and, in that light, 
paying cash with the tax adjustment where there are allowance issues is sometimes the best 
approach to drawing a line under the complaint.
Importantly, the purpose of the redress payment is to put Mr K back into the position he 
wouldve been in had the mistake not occurred. And therefore, it should normally be placed 
directly into the Prudential plan as its to make good a known error. James Hay said they 
couldnt do so as Mr K is in receipt of Enhanced Protection, and that meant it would usually 
be treated as a contribution and invalidate that benefit. However, since James Hays 
complaint resolution letter, the lifetime allowance has been abolished (as of 6 April 2023). 
That means monies can now be paid into Mr Ks pension.
As this service isnt able to provide individual tax advice, Mr K should seek professional 
guidance before determining which option is best for him. 
The rules around the lifetime allowance have obviously evolved since Mr Ks complaint. So, 
whilst I appreciate Mr Ks concerns about wishing to preserve the IHT beneficial nature of his 
funds, I dont think James Hay were being unreasonable in trying to avoid the potential for a 
greater tax charge on Mr Ks remaining, larger fund. 
Advice fees
I have not considered the complaint point Mr K made to James Hay about wishing to be 
recompensed for the time his IFA has spent supporting his complaint. Thats because he 
conceded to James Hay on 11 June 2021 that his adviser will not be charging him for that 
support now and in any event, its not the role of this service to consider the costs of other 
third parties.Distress and inconvenience
I can well understand Mr Ks frustration at having to complain a number of times to James 
Hay and I dont doubt he found the delays he experienced troublesome. However, in 
considering the impact such delays have had, our role is not to punish businesses for 
mistakes they make - thats the role of the regulator. Whilst each complaint is considered on 
its own individual merits, we aim to apply consistency when making awards for the distress 
and inconvenience firms have caused consumers. Having thought carefully about the chain 
of events Mr K encountered, Im satisfied the £500 James Hay have already offered is in line 
with other similar complaints this service has seen. And, it is in line with what I would have 
recommended had James Hay not already offered that amount. 
I consider the £500 fair and reasonable under the circumstances and as such, if theyve not 
already done so, James Hay should pay Mr K £500.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, James Hay stated that they werent contesting the 
outcome and as such, wanted time to set about obtaining the necessary information to put 
things right for Mr K.
Mr K responded to the provisional decision seeking further clarification on a number of points 
around the redress. In addition, Mr K also wanted to put on record that the reason why 
Prudential had to send the transfer monies back to James Hay was because the funds were 
held in seven discrete pots. Mr K says that Prudential were never advised of this by James 
Hay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator addressed Mr Ks queries about the redress. As neither party has disagreed 
with the outcome of the provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks 
complaint for the reasons Ive set out above. As such, James Hay must put Mr K back into 
the position he would be in had it not been for their mistakes. Ive explained how they should 
do that below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr K should be put back as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if had not been for James Hays error.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ks circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
As Ive already explained, in addition to the actions below, James Hay must also:
Pay Mr K the £500 for the trouble and upset theyve caused (if theyve not already done 
so).What else must James Hay do?
To compensate Mr K fairly James Hay should re-run their loss calculation from 22 April 
2021. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Mr K has confirmed that he is still invested with Prudential within the same fund as of May 
2023.
James Hay can take account of the monies already transferred to Prudential. The balance 
should be paid to Mr Ks pension.
James Hay should pay into Mr Ks pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation. James Hays payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. James Hay shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If James Hay are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ks pension plan, they should pay 
that amount direct to Mr K. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr K wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ks actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr K would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If James Hay considers theyre required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr K how 
much they have taken off. James Hay should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr K asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
James Hay 
PensionSwitched to 
PrudentialPruGrowth 
Fund Series 
ENovember 
2020*date of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year if 
the redress 
due is not 
paid within 
30 days of 
the 
consumer accepting 
the final 
decision.
Actual value
This means the actual amount of Mr Ks Prudential pension at the end date.
Fair value
This is what Mr Ks Prudential Plan would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
*James Hay should in their calculation use the value of what Mr Ks fund would have been 
on 25 November 2020 had all units been switched to the PruGrowth Fund Series E fund.
Any withdrawal from the Prudential pension should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Had it not been for the mistakes of James Hay, Mr Ks pension wouldve been switched to 
Prudential in November 2020. By re-running the loss calculation and bringing his pension up 
to date will place Mr K back into the position he should now be in.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and I require James Hay Administration Company Limited to take 
the action Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman