DRN-3034741
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) has refused to refund transactions (made 
using his NewDay (Aqua) Mastercard credit card) to a fraudulent investments trading 
company (CFD Corporate).
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, in May 2018, Mr G made three payments to what he thought was his trading 
account with CFD Corporate.  At the time, he believed that CFD Corporate were a legitimate 
investments trading firm.  However, after making his payments, he discovered that CFD 
Corporate were operating a scam.
Mr G made the following payments to CFD Corporate using his NewDay (Aqua) Mastercard 
credit card:
Date Merchant Amount
18 May 2018 CFD Corporate £500
21 May 2018 CFD Corporate £2,000
24 May 2018 CFD Corporate £4,500
4 June 2018 CFD Corporate £1,000 (credit)
Total amount debited: £7,000
Total less credits: £6,000
Mr G asked NewDay to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint, which he also referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He said chargeback rights 
are limited under the Mastercard scheme rules regarding claims about gambling, 
investments or similar  but they are not excluded altogether.  That said, he held that Mr G 
did have a valid claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Therefore, he suggested NewDay refund to Mr G all his money, 
less credits.
Mr G accepted the investigators findings, but NewDay did not.  Its position, in short, is that 
chargeback rights did not apply; and that there is no debtor-creditor-supplier agreement 
under the 1974 Act:  it is our belief there is no bilateral exchange, but simply a deposit.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Gs complaint on the 
basis that NewDay is liable to him under section 75.  As a starting point, I think it would be 
helpful if I set out what the section says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor 
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise, there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000.
I will deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn.  
Debtor-creditor-supplier agreement
First, there does not seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement under the 1974 Act.  And, I am satisfied here there is nothing 
that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  insomuch as there are three parties 
involved:
1. Mr G (the debtor);
2. NewDay (the creditor); and
3. CFD Corporate (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Gs paperwork and on NewDays 
business file submissions.
A transaction financed by the agreement
Secondly, the next consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction is not defined in the 1974 Act, but it has generally been given a wide 
interpretation by the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal.  
Here, Mr G has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
were transactions (which I will call the deposit-transactions) as defined by section 75.Again, to finance, is not defined in the 1974 Act.  An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something.  In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004], Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed, The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of  A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for his purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr G had not used his credit card, he would have 
had to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled him to.  So, it is clear that the deposit-
transactions were financed by the agreement. 
A claim related to that transaction
Thirdly, a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction.  It 
is important to consider what Mr Gs claim is here. It is evident from his testimony and 
correspondence he provided that he feels he was tricked into depositing the payments with 
CFD Corporate for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr G to deposit further amounts. 
Mr G does not believe that CFD Corporate were operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking they were.
This claim, that Mr G was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions.  The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mr G was told by CFD Corporate matters that were factually untrue 
in order to trick him into entering into the deposit-transactions, his claim would be for 
misrepresentation.  Or, if the merchant made binding promises to him as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make his claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Cash price value
Finally, the claim must not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000.  Here, the cash price of the deposit-
transaction is the value of that deposit-transaction.  It is both the consideration and subject 
matter of the contract. 
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transactions in this case.
I will therefore go on to consider whether Mr G has a valid claim for misrepresentation and/or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr G has made a claim of misrepresentation by CFD Corporate  that claim being 
that they represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful, it is necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact, but also that the statement induced Mr G into entering into an agreement. A false statement of fact
If I am satisfied that CFD Corporate were not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  
one in which Mr G could never have received back more money than he deposited  then it 
follows that any statements made by CFD Corporate to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr G could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade.  And, I am satisfied that based on Mr Gs account of events and the nature of the 
situation, CFD Corporate did claim that Mr G could have made money from the trading 
platform.
That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had Mr G known that the trading platform was essentially a scam, designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service  there is really little question, to my 
mind, of him not investing with CFD Corporate.  Consequently, should I be satisfied that 
CFD Corporate is not operating a legitimate enterprise, then inducement will also be 
demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that I have found Mr Gs account of 
events both detailed and compelling.  But more than this, it is corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature, but specific complaints against CFD Corporate.  Because of this, 
Im minded to find his account to be truthful.
Turning to what Mr G has told our service, which, in the interest of conciseness, I will repeat 
parts here:
On 18 May 2018, CFD Corporate contacted him and presented themselves,  as an 
investment institution that based in the UK.
He applied for trading lessons which he did not receive.
 as part of the service they provide me with a Financial adviser that immediately 
start by gambling my funds without stop.
I got a lot of frustration working with them as the trades always continues and I 
havent known how to stop it the company has a policy that says up to 72 hours each 
withdrawal request will be proceeded instead it getting cancelation on them and 
excuses why it cant happen now.
His bonus was added and then removed.
CFD Corporates support email address does not exist.
CFD Corporate appear to be based in Israel  connected to another company.
He is still unable to make withdrawals and his requests for support is ignored.
There is a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that 
repeat the tactics used by CFD Corporate.  This does lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact 
CFD Corporate offered little more than a video game or simulation.
There is further evidence in the form of a warning on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
website dated 26 June 2018.  Although this was published post the payments concerned, 
the warning suggests CFD Corporate may not have been acting legitimately:
We believe this firm may be providing financial services or products in the UK without our 
authorisation. Find out why you should be wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and 
how to protect yourself.
The FCAs warning about CFD Corporate can also be found on the Investor Alerts Portal of 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).
In summary
I do not think it is likely CFD Corporate were operating a legitimate enterprise.  Therefore, I 
am persuaded they made misrepresentations to Mr G.  That is, that they were running a 
genuine enterprise through which he could never have got back more than his deposits from 
the platform.  I am also satisfied that if Mr G had known this, he would not have deposited 
any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these misrepresentations.
Breach of contract
Here, Mr G has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished.  
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by section 75.
It follows, I think, that CFD Corporate had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mr G to use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform; and 
b) To enable Mr G to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr G was not able to use the funds from his deposits on the investment platform.  Further, 
he says CFD Corporate prevented him from withdrawing funds from his trading account 
when he wanted to.  Taking these points together, I am satisfied that CFD Corporate 
breached the above contractual obligations.
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mr Gs loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of his deposits.
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mr G could have recovered his deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: I am satisfied Mr G has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that CFD Corporate made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was 
operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mr G could access his money freely and 
earn a profit from his deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: I am satisfied Mr G also has a claim for breach of contract as 
CFD Corporate breached their promises to Mr G.  Namely, that he could use the 
funds from his deposits on an investment platform, and withdraw funds deposited as 
and when he wished.  This provides another basis for recovery. As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, NewDay should put Mr G back into 
the position he would have been had the deposit-transactions not been entered into.  So, he 
should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts credited to him by CFD 
Corporate. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct that NewDay Ltd:
Pay Mr G all the money he lost (set out above); including any transaction fees (if 
applicable), less the amount CFD Corporate credited to Mr Gs account  within 28 
days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Gs account 
until the date of settlement.
If NewDay Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr G with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman