DRN-2735004
The complaint
Mr M has complained National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund him for transactions 
made in a branch that werent carried out by him.
What happened
When Mr M went to his NatWest branch to withdraw some cash in July 2018, he noticed 
£2,600 worth of withdrawals had been made in different branches over two different days. 
He disputed these. Hed already disputed a withdrawal of £300 made on 29 June 2018 
which had been refunded on 4 July.
Mr M decided to contact the police as he thought he knew whod carried out these 
transactions. He went back to NatWest when the police didnt take the case any further. 
They refused to refund him £2,600. Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
NatWest explained to us in their evidence there were sufficient reasons to believe Mr M may 
have been involved in the original withdrawals although possibly didnt make these himself.
After reviewing the evidence, including the detailed checks NatWest carried out to verify the 
withdrawals, our investigator told Mr M we wouldnt ask NatWest to refund him.
Mr M didnt accept this outcome. He was also concerned hed lost out because he tried to 
pursue this with the police. As whoever carried out these withdrawals knew quite a lot about 
Mr Ms current and savings accounts, Mr M believed they must have been able to obtain 
copies of statements from NatWest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
thats had an impact on the decision Im making here.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by NatWest and Mr M. 
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 5 March 2021 but feel no need to rerun 
some of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the 
decision Im making.
Mr M is concerned that someone has been able to access his accounts over a prolonged 
period. Its certainly true that Mr M has received refunds from NatWest about fraud that took 
place on his accounts from 2015 to 2018. I also note those instances were similar to the 
ones that NatWest didnt reimburse in July 2018.
Ive considered all of the different aspects of what happened here.
Firstly its clear Mr M believes he knows whos done this and took this matter up with the 
police. Although CCTV was reviewed by them, it seems none of the images were clear 
enough to identify whod carried out these transactions. They were unable to take the case 
any further. I know Mr M doesnt think this has been adequately explained to him but thats 
an issue he needs to take up with the police.
Its clear that whoever carried out these disputed transactions wasnt in a rush. NatWest talk 
about someone being in one of the branches long enough to talk to a mortgage advisor. I 
can also see that £400 was withdrawn from the current account and then £900 from the 
savings account with quite a period of time in between. NatWests evidence suggests the 
individual stayed in the branch the whole time.
Our investigator explained to Mr M that we couldnt share with him the detail of the checks 
NatWest undertook. But I can confirm these werent simply about recent transactions but 
included detail about how the accounts were operated and who Mr M had dealt with at the 
bank. Mr M was concerned this information could have been obtained from copies of 
statements. I dont believe from the evidence Ive seen that this was the case. More 
information than that provided by the statements would have been needed.  In any case I 
dont believe NatWest has anything to show copies of statements were provided in branch.
Signatures on withdrawal slips for the disputed transactions have been compared with 
Mr Ms signature. NatWest has accepted these are not a complete match but bear 
similarities in style.
This information  along with the fact Mr M reported the withdrawals to the police  do 
suggest Mr M didnt carry out these withdrawals himself. Im satisfied this is the case.
However this doesnt necessarily mean that he didnt allow someone else to make these on 
his behalf.
I dont know how a third party knew enough detail about Mr Ms accounts to carry out these 
transactions. Particularly as NatWest has confirmed quite a lot of detail was shared with 
them when verifying the withdrawals. Overall I think its most likely that this is someone who 
Mr M must have shared details with about his accounts. He may have subsequently realised 
this was a mistake but I cant see that he took any steps to warn NatWest what was going 
on. I cant really expect NatWest to continue to refund Mr M for fraud when hes taken no 
steps to stop what was happening.
On balance I believe the evidence suggests Mr M authorised these disputed withdrawals. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman