DRN-4103051
The complaint
Mr F has complained that repairs carried out following a claim under his home insurance 
policy require rectification. Mr F made a claim for an escape of water to AXA Insurance UK 
Plc. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr F made a claim to his insurer, AXA. AXA accepted the claim and arranged 
for repairs to be carried out to Mr Fs home. 
Mr F identified cracks to tiles in his bathroom and contacted AXA. He raised his concerns 
with AXA and the Loss Adjuster appointed by AXA in February 2022. Unhappy with the lack 
of response, he raised a complaint. 
In September 2022 AXA upheld Mr Fs complaint. To resolve it, AXA agreed to liaise with the 
LA to put a plan in place to correct the failed repairs. AXA promised it would arrange this as 
a matter of urgency and to ensure the repairs were effective and long standing, preventing 
the need for further rectification repairs. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused, AXA paid Mr F £200 compensation. 
In October 2022 Mr F told us he hadnt heard from AXA or the LA with a plan for repairs. 
In January 2023 our Investigator issued his view. Hed asked Mr F to obtain a quote for the 
rectification repairs from his preferred contractor in light of the lack of updates from AXA. 
The Investigator recommended AXA pay Mr F a cash settlement equivalent to the quote and 
provided AXA with a copy of it. This meant Mr F could make his own arrangements with his 
preferred contractor for the repairs to be completed. 
The Investigator thought the compensation AXA had paid was reasonable. 
Both Mr F and AXA accepted the Investigators view. So the Investigator closed the case. 
In March 2023 Mr F contacted us to say he hadnt received any further response from AXA. 
Our Investigator chased AXA but didnt receive a reply. So the case has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The assessment by the Investigator isnt in dispute, and the complaint is well known to both 
parties, so I dont intend to repeat it here. 
Both parties accepted the Investigators view. On 8 February 2023 AXA apologised for its 
delayed response and agreed to pay Mr F a cash settlement equivalent to the quote he 
provided in January 2023. 
However, it hasnt responded to Mr F since - or to this service to provide an update despite 
our requests. It isnt clear why AXA hasnt settled Mr Fs claim as it agreed to. 
So Im upholding Mr Fs complaint and the remedy is set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr F 
a cash settlement equivalent to the quote provided in January 2023 to carry out rectification 
repairs. 
If Mr F has already paid for such repairs, AXA should pay interest on the settlement from the 
date Mr F paid to the date of reimbursement at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
AXX Insurance UK Plc must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the award 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman