DRN-3816732
The complaint
Mr W complains that MoneyGram International Limited (MoneyGram)returned two payments 
he wanted to send abroad but only refunded one. He would like the second payment 
refunded along with compensation. He would also like MoneyGram to be fined
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having don so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr W has said that, as part of the redress he seeks, he would like MoneyGram to be 
fined. I need to make it clear to Mr W that its not in our remit to fine businesses. We 
look at individual complaints to see if something has gone wrong, and if so, to find a 
suitable solution.
There is no dispute that MoneyGram didnt make the two payments . As I understand 
it the first payment couldnt be made due to an error with the recipients surname. 
That money was returned to Mr W. However, MoneyGram declined to make the 
second payment  for security reasons. I do understand Mr Ws frustration as the 
payment was genuine. However, if MoneyGram had concerns about a potential fraud 
scam which seems to have been the case here I dont think it was unreasonable to 
not make the payment as it was acting in Mr Ws best interests..
I understand Mr W has now received the money back for the second payment. But 
this was after input from our investigator. MoneyGram has told us the refund was 
always available. Mr W said he couldnt get a refund as when he tried to do so local 
offices in his area said they werent trained to issue refunds. Mr W hasnt evidenced 
this but given he successfully obtained the first refund he would have been aware of 
the process to do so. it wouldnt be in his interests not to get the refund so I am 
persuaded he tried but wasnt able to do so. I agree with our investigator that 
MoneyGram could have been more proactive in facilitating a refund for Mr W 
I think our investigators suggestion of £100 compensation for the delay in Mr W 
getting the second refund is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement MoneyGram International Limited should pay Mr W £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman