DRN-3880623
The complaint
Miss J complains that she was mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan used to pay 
for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Miss J is represented by a claims 
management company, which Ill call N.
What happened
In May 2010 Miss J agreed to buy membership of a holiday club in Malta. The seller was 
Northern Star Travel (Sales) Ltd, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands. To fund 
the purchase, Miss J took out a loan with BPF, arranged by Northern Star. The loan remains 
active.
In April 2019 N wrote to BPF to say that it thought the club membership had been mis-sold 
and that the loan therefore created an unfair relationship. Specifically, N said that a business 
called Vista Promotions had not been authorised to arrange loan in 2010. It said as well that 
BPF had not carried out proper affordability checks and that it had not taken proper account 
of Miss Js earlier bankruptcy.
In its response, BPF noted that the loan had been agreed some nine years previously and 
that any claim of the type made was out of time under the provisions of the Limitation Act 
1980. N referred the matter to this service on behalf of Miss J.
Our investigator did not however recommend that the complaint be upheld. The credit broker 
had not required authorisation from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in 2010, and there 
was no reason therefore to think that the loan terms were unfair in themselves. She was 
satisfied too that appropriate affordability checks had been carried out. N asked that the 
matter be referred to an ombudsman.
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said, in 
summary:
Northern Star had arranged the loan and, according to our records, it did have the 
necessary authorisation at the time. 
It followed that there was no reason to think that the loan created an unfair relationship 
under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act had the potential to make BPF liable for 
misleading statements made by Northern Star. 
It was likely however that a court would conclude that any such claims against Northern 
Star would now be out of time. 
We had no power to consider the complaint about affordability, because it had been 
made outside this services time limits.
Neither Miss J nor her representatives replied to my provisional decision. BPF drew my 
attention to some typographical errors in it, but otherwise was in agreement with my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Authorisation to arrange the loan
The full loan agreement and associated paperwork are no longer available. Northern Star is 
however named as the seller of the club membership on the sales contract and as the credit 
broker on the loan account statement. I am satisfied therefore that it arranged the loan. The 
involvement of Vista Promotions, if any, is not clear. It may simply be a trading name.
When the loan was set up, consumer credit broking did not require FCA authorisation; it did 
however require a licence issued by the Office of Fair Trading. In addition, from 6 April 2007, 
the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider certain complaints about OFT licensees, 
under what was then our consumer credit jurisdiction. Our own records indicate that 
Northern Star was covered under the consumer credit jurisdiction from 7 January 2008 until 
31 March 2014 (with a short break in January and February 2013) and thereafter under our 
compulsory jurisdiction. It is no longer authorised.
Northern Star would not have been recorded as a business coming under this services 
consumer credit jurisdiction unless it had the necessary consumer credit licence. I am 
satisfied therefore that it was properly authorised as a consumer credit broker when the loan 
was arranged in May 2010.
Section 140A and 140B claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 a court has the 
power to consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, 
to make appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different 
terms on the parties and refunding payments. And, in deciding whether a loan creates an 
unfair relationship, the court can take into account any linked agreement  which in this case 
could include the sale agreement.
In this case, N says that Miss J seeks refunds of sums already paid under the loan 
agreement and for the agreement to be ended.
Ns primary case here is that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship because the 
credit broker was not properly authorised to arrange consumer credit loans. For the reasons 
Ive explained, however, I am satisfied that Northern Star was the broker and that it did have 
the necessary licence at the time. And I have seen nothing else to persuade me that the loan 
was inherently unfair.
For completeness, I should note that N says that the relevant limitation period under the 
Limitation Act 1980 for this part of the claim is twelve years from the end of the relationship 
between lender and borrower. In this case, I think it is six years, but it isnt relevant here 
because the loan is still running; the six year time limit has not begun to run yet.
The Limitation Act is however relevant to other parts of the complaint, as I shall explain.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. In this 
case, that means that statements made by Northern Star are to be treated as if they were 
made by BPF.In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. Because 
the loan documentation is not available, the exact relationship between BPF and Northern 
Star is not clear. I note too that payments were to be made to a trust company in the Isle of 
Man. I have however approached this case on the basis that the loan was set up as a result 
of pre-existing arrangements between BPF and Northern Star and that section 75(1) could 
therefore apply.
I must therefore consider whether Miss J might have a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against Northern Star and, if she does, what the effect might be.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Miss J at the time of the sale.
Be that as it may, under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Miss J into the contract 
for the purchase of holiday club membership were made on or before 13 May 2010. She did 
not however raise any complaint with BPF until April 2019, nearly nine years later. I think it 
very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against Northern Star would 
be outside the time limit in the Limitation Act.
Equally, Miss J has not really specified how, if at all, Northern Star has breached its contract 
with her. Again, however, any claim for breach of contract should be brought within six years 
of the breach. As with any claim for misrepresentation, I think it likely that a court would 
conclude that any claim for breach of contract would now be made outside the relevant time 
limit in the Limitation Act.
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against Northern Star is now out of 
time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the 
claim under section 56 and/or section 75(1) was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a 
court would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the loan 
was otherwise not appropriate for Miss J. I note that she had previously been made 
bankrupt, but that would not automatically mean further lending was not appropriate. That 
would depend on her circumstances at the time.
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had 
cause for complaint.The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in May 2010. Miss J would have known fairly soon after that date if she was 
having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the complaint should have 
been referred to this service by no later than 13 May 2016  six years from the date Miss J 
took it out. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
Conclusions
In summary, therefore:
I am satisfied that Northern Star had the necessary consumer credit licence in May 
2010 and that there is no other reason to believe that a court would find that the loan 
agreement created an unfair relationship.
It is likely that any claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against Northern 
Star would be out of time if made in court, so it would not be fair to hold BPF liable for 
its actions.
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman