DRN-3884629
The complaint
Mrs L complains about AWP P&C SAs assessment of a travel insurance claim she made on 
behalf of her daughter.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill give the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says AWP will pay up to £1,000 if you require emergency dental treatment 
for the immediate relief of pain. 
Mrs Ls daughter experienced toothache whilst on a cruise. She saw a dentist after 
disembarking, and had an X-ray. Unfortunately, she continued to experience pain. 
She went to the medical centre on board the ship as there was no dentist available, 
and was given pain relief.
Although Mrs L says theres no evidence that her daughter had dental pain at that 
stage, the medical report gave a diagnosis of other specified disorders of teeth and 
supporting structures. The report also made clear that Mrs Ls daughter had 
tenderness at the second molar, with gum swelling and redness. Im satisfied from 
this that her pain was dental related. 
The policy doesnt explain what is meant by dental treatment. However, I think its 
reasonable to interpret this as treatment to address dental issues. Im satisfied that 
pain relief would be considered treatment.  
If a dentist had been available on the ship, I expect Mrs Ls daughter would have 
seen a dentist rather than a doctor. Nonetheless, the policy doesnt say that a dentist 
needs to administer the treatment.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AWP to deal with the claim as 
emergency dental treatment, and therefore limit the payment to £1,000.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman