DRN-3560970
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his previous motor insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because it 
didnt tell him about a claim it had received notification of from a third-party.
What happened
Mr C was involved in a minor incident with another car in May 2021. At that time he was 
insured with AXA and he told it what had happened. Over the coming months Mr C didnt 
hear anymore from AXA and in October 2021 he changed his policy.
Shortly after the change went through the new insurer told Mr C it was cancelling the new 
cover. It said there was a claim Mr C hadnt told it about. Mr C later learnt that whilst he had 
only notified AXA of the incident, it had received a claim from a passenger in the other car. 
Mr C needed cover so he arranged another policy which cost him £551 more than the policy 
which had been cancelled. Mr C felt this was AXAs fault  if it had told him about the claim, 
hed have declared it, his policy wouldnt have been cancelled and he wouldnt have had to 
take out the more expensive cover.
AXA said it accepted that there had been a lack of communication and service. It offered 
£200 compensation. It also said it would look to reinstate the policy that had been cancelled 
(as it was also the underwriter for that cover). 
Mr C remained unhappy. He felt AXAs failure had caused him a financial loss because the 
policy hed had to take out to replace the cancelled one was more expensive. And that loss 
would likely repeat each year hed have to declare the cancellation. So he complained to us.
Our investigator felt AXA had accepted liability for Mr C not giving correct information about 
the claim. He noted Mr C had incurred a cost as a result of this. He said AXA should remove 
the record of the cancellation from its own and any industry databases and also provide a 
letter for Mr C to use, if necessary, which explains the cancellation was its fault. He also felt 
AXA should pay Mr C £551 which was the additional cost of the replacement policy and a 
total of £400 compensation for upset.
AXA said it would agree to everything, with the exception of paying Mr C the additional 
premium cost. AXA said this should be taken up with the insurer which had charged it, as it 
would be normal industry practice for that insurer to recalculate the premium cost. And if it 
pays him now, he could get it recalculated anyway. That would mean hed benefit twice and 
that wouldnt be fair. The complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note AXA has accepted liability for what happened. So I dont need to consider that. All that 
I have to determine is what the fair and reasonable outcome is in the circumstances of the 
error that occurred and the resultant losses, both financial and non-financial, which were 
suffered by Mr C.
Mr C was concerned about future potential losses that he might suffer if declaring the 
cancellation. AXAs agreement to amend the database and, as a fail-safe really, provide a 
letter explaining the cause of the cancellation, will prevent those losses from occurring. So 
Im satisfied requiring AXA to do that is a fair and reasonable remedy for that loss.
Mr C though has already had to pay a greater premium than hed planned for. And if he 
hadnt been put in a position by AXA which caused his new policy to be cancelled, then he 
wouldnt have had to find the further cover, or pay the premium that insurer chose to charge 
for that cover. I note AXAs point about what often happens in circumstances similar to this. 
But Im not persuaded its fair here to put Mr C to more hassle. And nor have I seen anything 
that makes me think Mr C would knowingly attempt to achieve a recalculation of premium 
from the new insurer as well as achieving redress from AXA. On this occasion, I think the fair 
and reasonable outcome would be for AXA to pay Mr C £551 which was the additional cost 
he paid for replacement cover.
I can see that this has caused Mr C a great deal of upset. I know it was a shock for him 
when the new insurer cancelled his policy. And he then had to contact AXA to find out what 
had happened, only to discover a claim had been made which he hadnt been told about. 
I accept that was frustrating for him. I also see he is a young driver and had real worry about 
how, following AXAs failure, he was going to afford the likely increased cost of cover over 
the coming years. I think £400 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I understand that whilst AXA sent Mr C a cheque, containing the £200 compensation it had 
offered, Mr C did not cash it. AXA should now, if Mr C accepts my final decision within the 
deadline, pay him £400. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to:
Remove the record of its cancellation from its own and any industry database.
Provide a letter for Mr C to use, should he need to, which explains that the cancellation 
was its fault.
Pay Mr C £551 as compensation for his financial loss.
Pay Mr C £400 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman