DRN-4470225
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed his account. He also says Lloyds didnt 
release all the money held in the account back to him and handled an international payment 
poorly. He says this caused him financial problems and he wants compensation.
What happened
Mr G had a business current account with Lloyds. 
In June 2022, Mr G made two international payments of just over £21,000 and £20,000 from 
his account to an associate in Africa. Mr G says that after he made the payments he asked 
Lloyds to recall them as his associate had become ill and wasnt able to access the funds. 
Lloyds followed Mr Gs instructions and recalled the payments. But due to delays on the part 
of the receiving bank the payments werent returned to Mr Gs account until late June and 
July 2022. Mr G complained about the amount of time this had taken, but Lloyds said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and had needed information from the overseas bank before it 
could return the money to Mr G, which it said it had done as soon as it was able to do so.
In July 2022, Lloyds reviewed Mr Gs account after two credits of £7,993 and £5,993 were 
paid into the account. Whilst it completed its review Lloyds blocked the account  which 
meant Mr G couldnt access any money in the account other than any wages or pension 
payments. During its review Lloyds asked Mr G to provide information about the two credits. 
In response, Mr G called Lloyds said that the money was payment from a customer who had 
bought goods from him. But he couldnt provide any evidence to support his explanation and 
didnt elaborate about what exactly what goods had been sold.  During the call due to a 
technical issue at Lloyds end the call was disconnected. The call handler wasnt able to call 
Mr G back but left a note on Mr Gs account about what had been discussed.
 
Whilst Lloyds were completing its review of Mr Gs account, it received a fraud report from 
another bank which identified the two July 2022 payments as fraudulent. That is the holder 
of the account had been the victim of scam and hadnt authorised the payments. 
Lloyds continued to block Mr Gs account whilst it reviewed the information, he had provided 
about why he had received the payments and the reports from the other bank regarding the 
fraud. Lloyds completed its review and decided to close Mr Gs account and returned the 
fraudulent funds back to the sending bank. Lloyds released Mr Gs closing balance, which 
included the £20,000 recalled payment back to him in August 2022.
Mr G complained to Lloyds about the restriction on his account and the bank not returning 
the money he had received in July 2022 back to him. He also complained that the recalled 
payments took too long to go back into his account. And he was cut off during a call. In 
response, Lloyds apologised for the call being disconnected and explained that this was due 
to a technical issue. Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the 
terms of the account and relevant regulations when it had blocked, closed, and returned the 
funds to source.  
Mr G wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to us. He wants 
Lloyds to return the money it sent back to him, reopen his account, and pay compensation 
for the trouble and upset he says he has been caused. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He thought Lloyds hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Gs account. He said theyd acted in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. And that it hadnt taken too long to complete its review of his 
account. He also said Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong in sending the two fraudulent 
payments back to source and when it had returned the recalled payments to Mr Gs account.
Lloyds accepted what the investigator said. Mr G disagreed. He said Lloyds had accused 
him of fraud without providing any evidence and he wants the money that was paid into his 
account returned to him. He says when he was telling Lloyds about the two payments the 
advisor just hung up on him and didnt explain why his account was being closed. He also 
says that Lloyds took too long to recall the international payments.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the block of Mr Gs account.  As the investigator has already explained, 
Lloyds has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing 
account services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to 
protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. To fulfil these 
obligations Lloyds may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask customers 
for information, for example about payments, and information about the individuals operating 
the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Mr Gs 
account also permit Lloyds to review an account and ask its customers for information. 
Fraud is a serious matter, and one way financial businesses and banks can help to tackle 
fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when allegedly fraudulent payments are 
received into them. And thats what happened here. I should also add that Lloyds is not 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of a fraud of financial crime 
before it decided to block his account and carry out a review.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Lloyds to block Mr Gs account. Lloyds has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Lloyds were complying with 
its legal and regulatory obligations. And it enabled Lloyds to consider how best to react to 
the information it had received from the sending bank about the money that had been paid 
into Mr Gs account. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr G inconvenience and 
upset when it decided to block his account and asked him to provide information, I cant say 
the bank did anything wrong and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
From looking at the evidence, Im also satisfied that Lloyds was proactive in completing its 
review from the time it blocked Mr Gs account. Lloyds spoke to Mr G about the payments 
and gave him an opportunity to explain his entitlement to the funds and completed its review 
in a timely manner. So, I cant say Lloyds has treated him unfairly. Mr G says that Lloyds shouldnt have sent the two payments back. So, he says the bank still 
owes him this money. Ive looked at the information Lloyds has provided regarding the 
money that was paid into Mr Gs account which confirmed the payments as fraudulent. Ive 
also looked at what Mr G told Lloyds about the money and noted that Mr G didnt provide 
anything to show he was entitled to the money. Lloyds sent the funds back to source. This 
ensures the funds are sent back to the correct person. Based on the evidence Ive seen I 
agree that this was the right action in the circumstances. So, I cant say Lloyds has treated 
Mr G unfairly in doing so and I wont be asking Lloyds to refund this money to him. 
 
Mr G has said that when he spoke to Lloyds about the payments, the call handler hung up 
on him. Ive not seen any evidence that the call handler deliberately disconnected the call. 
Lloyds has explained that the call handler had some technical issues during the call which 
meant the call was disconnected and they were unable to call Mr G back. Lloyds has 
apologised for any upset and inconvenience this caused Mr G. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Mr Gs complaint, so I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything more. In reaching this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that the call handler updated 
Mr Gs record about their conversation, so that if Mr G called back, all the information was to 
hand and he wouldnt have to repeat himself, which I think is reasonable. 
Ive next gone on to consider whether Lloyds treated Mr G fairly in the way it handled his 
request to recall the two international payments he made in June 2022. Having looked at all 
the information, Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt cause any delays, the bank acted on Mr Gs 
instructions, and it seems that the delays which occurred were out of Lloyds control  it was 
waiting on information from the receiving bank. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Lloyds 
responsible for the actions of another bank.
Finally,  Ive considered whether Lloyds acted fairly when it closed Mr Gs account. Its 
generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, 
or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very 
good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or 
require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Lloyds have relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Gs account in closing the account. The 
terms and conditions outline that Lloyds can close a customers account with two months 
notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case, 
Lloyds blocked Mr Gs account, and then closed it. So, I consider Lloyds closed Mr Gs 
account immediately, since he wasnt able to use the account following the block. 
For Lloyds to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for 
immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that 
Lloyds did. So, it was entitled to close the account as its already done and end its 
relationship with Mr G. 
In summary, I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I cant conclude that Lloyds have treated 
Mr G unfairly. So, I wont be telling Lloyds to do anything to resolve Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman