DRN-3896104
The complaint
Ms A and Mr P complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) did not do enough 
to protect them from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help 
them recover the money once theyd reported the scam.
What happened
Ms A came into contact with a man via a WhatsApp chat group. He claimed to be a broker 
working for a company Ill refer to as P. The broker told Ms A she could make large returns 
from trading in cryptocurrency and advised her to first purchase cryptocurrency through two 
exchange companies Ill refer to as M and C, and then load the cryptocurrency onto an 
online wallet. 
Between 18 March 2021 and 20 March 2021, Ms A and Mr P used a Visa debit card 
connected to their Natwest account to make seven payments M and C totalling £4,600. On 
20 March 2021, Natwest blocked a payment for £540.64 and contacted Ms A. During the call 
Ms A verified shed authorised the payment. Natwest also questioned her regarding three 
payments from the account earlier that day, and one the day before. Ms A confirmed that 
shed authorised all four payments, and the block was removed.
Ms A and Mr P were told that in order to unlock the funds, theyd have to pay £1,200 in fees. 
They realised theyd been scammed when they paid the fees but were unable to withdraw 
any funds from their account. 
They complained to Natwest with the help of a representative who said the transactions 
were out of character and that during the call, it failed to ask the right questions and missed 
an opportunity to prevent the scam. The representative argued that further questioning 
would have identified that the broker had contacted Ms A via WhatsApp, and this would have 
been a red flag that this could be a scam.
Natwest said that in March 2021 the circumstances of the payments didnt match the fraud 
trends, and so they didnt trigger an alert. But Ms A and Mr P werent satisfied and so they 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that banks are 
expected to have measures in place to detect and intervene appropriately and she was 
satisfied thats what Natwest had done on 20 March 20201. She also considered whether 
intervention from Natwest would have made a difference, noting that Ms A and Mr P had 
conducted a reasonable level of due diligence. She was also satisfied theyd trusted the 
broker and that it was likely theyd have continued to invest, notwithstanding a warning from 
Natwest. 
Ms A and Mr P have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, arguing 
the view is inconsistent with our approach which considers what most likely would have 
happened.
Their representative has questioned whether it was enough for Natwest to have asked 
whether the payments were genuine, arguing that it should have asked more probing 
questions in order to uncover the scam. They have also argued the fact Ms A and Mr P 
conducted due diligence before investing means its more likely theyd have decided against 
going ahead with the payments. Finally, the representative has also argued that, even if they 
hadnt heeded the warning, Natwest probably would have been so concerned that it would 
have blocked the payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms A and Mr P have been victims of a cruel scam. I 
know they feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to them, 
so Ill explain why.
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Ms A and Mr P say theyve fallen 
victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Unfortunately, the code doesnt apply 
in here because the disputed payments were paid to an account in Ms A and Mr Ps own 
name.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Natwest could have done more to recover the payments when 
Ms A and Mr P reported the scam to it, but their testimony supports that they used 
cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback 
claim to the merchant that received the disputed payments. Its most likely that the 
cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able to evidence theyd done what was asked of 
them. That is, in exchange for the payments, they converted and sent an amount of 
cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail.
Prevention
Im satisfied Ms A and Mr P authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although 
they didnt intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms 
and conditions of his bank account, Ms A and Mr P are presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and Im persuaded the broker was operating as 
part of a scam. This is because Ive seen evidence of communication with P, P wasnt 
registered with the FCA and there is a negative review online. But, although Ms A and Mr P 
didnt intend their money to go to scammers, they did authorise the disputed payments. 
Natwest is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to 
make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Ive thought about whether Natwest could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the payments were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, 
Natwest had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Ms A and Mr 
P when they tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an 
account, Id expect Natwest to intervene with a view to protecting Ms A and Mr P from 
financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Natwests systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Ms A 
and Mr P normally ran their account and I dont think they were, so I dont think its 
unreasonable that they didnt trigger scam warnings.
Natwest blocked a payment on 20 March 2021 and during the subsequent call, Ms A and Mr 
P confirmed that and four other payments were genuine, so it removed the block. Natwest 
did no more than seek to confirm the transaction was genuine and I dont think in the 
circumstances it needed to. Consequently, I dont think it missed an opportunity to intervene.
Overall, Im satisfied Natwest took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Ms A 
and Mr P has lost money and the effect this has had on them. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Natwest is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman