DRN-3378211
The complaint
In summary, Mr R has complained about the advice provided by Interestme Financial 
Planning Limited (IFP), to transfer a personal pension into a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). 
What happened
In 2017 IFP advised Mr R to transfer a personal pension into a SIPP. The proceeds of 
transfer were invested in several different funds. 
In 2019, Mr R made a complaint to IFP about the suitability of the advice to transfer his 
pension into a SIPP. Mr R was and continues to be represented by a claims management 
company in bringing the complaint. As no response to the complaint was received from IFP, 
Mr R referred the complaint to our service to investigate.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs concerns. She wrote to IFP explaining why she 
thought Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. And she also set out how IFP should calculate 
and pay redress to Mr R. Ive summarised and paraphrased what the investigator said in her 
assessment below. 
Mr R was cold called by an advisor from IFP and told if he transferred his pension and 
invested his funds elsewhere, he would get better returns. A fact find was completed in 
November 2017 and the following was noted about Mr R at the time:
He was single with no dependents.
He was aged 57 and planned to retire at 75 so had 17 years till retirement at the time 
of switch.
He was unemployed at the time and residing in rented accommodation.
He was solely dependent upon his pension and state pension. His maximum state 
pension was £678.10
He had a monthly income of £400 and wanted this to increase to around £600 a 
month.
He wasnt a member of any workplace pension arrangements. He only had his 
personal pension. The fund value was £31,421.71.
He wanted to have his pension income guaranteed for life and also wanted to take 
his pension as and when he wanted.
His attitude to risk was lower to medium.
An adviser discussed objectives with Mr R on 23 November 2017 and concluded that Mr R 
was unhappy with his pension and wanted to understand the options available to him. It 
stated in the document titled what we know about you that he believed a combination of 
the positive long-term investment returns and making ongoing contributions play the most 
important role in growing your pension.
Following discussions about these objectives it was decided that the most important 
objective at that stage was greater investment flexibility and this was the basis of the 
advice to switch.
Mr R was sent a pension pack which included a personalised illustration, a suitability report 
and the pension switch application form. The suitability report showed an initial service fee of 
3% which is around £943 and then 0.75% ongoing charges which is around
£229 pa. In comparison, his Royal London charges at the time was a £191 one off fee and 
then 1% pa. The transfer was finalised on the 23 December 2017.
He transferred into the recommended SIPP interest wealth conservative portfolio. 
Mr R explained that he wasnt made aware of the investment strategy.
Issue to determine
The investigator said she needed to determine whether or not the advice to transfer Mr 
Rs pension was suitable.
Investigation
In 2008, the regulator issued a report entitled quality of advice on pension switching. 
The report provided examples of poor, compliant and good, examples of advice given 
since pensions A-day. Some examples below note what it thought would constitute 
unsuitable advice:
A pension that is more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a 
stakeholder pension would have fulfilled the customers needs
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome 
involved assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for 
investment flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund 
performance, but there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; 
or the reason was the flexibility of a drawdown option, but there is no evidence this 
option was needed
The investigator considered the charges that applied to the SIPP and compared them with 
the charges that applied to his existing personal pension. She could see that the SIPP 
charges were significantly more. She understood these charges were explained to Mr R 
and the effect these charges would have on the growth of his funds were also explained.
The suitability report set out that at the preferred retirement age of 75 the projected value 
of Mr Rs existing pension was £43,300. The projected value of IFPs recommended fund, 
was £41,300. This assumed the same growth rate and with only the charges being 
different. This confirmed that the recommendation was more expensive. On this basis the 
investigator didnt understand why the transfer was recommended. She also didnt 
understand why other stakeholders pensions which capped charges, werent considered. 
She thought the failure to properly consider other stakeholder pensions suggested the 
advice was unsuitable as IFP didnt explore all of Mr Rs options.
She went on to say that when advising someone to switch from their existing pension, the 
potential to be better off must be enough to more than compensate for the risk that the 
consumer might end up worse off. This meant Mr R would need a greater potential for gain than risk for the advice to be suitable. Looking at the charges and transfer penalty fee, she 
believed the advice was unsuitable as the projections showed it reduced his potential for 
gain.
The investigator also thought it was important to look at Mr Rs circumstances at the 
time of the advice. She noted he was unemployed at the time and relying on his 
savings. He also was a rather inexperienced investor; therefore, she didnt think 
transferring him and having him incur a penalty fee and higher charges was in his 
best interest.
She appreciated there were other reasons IFP felt outweighed these high charges and 
potential risks. She also considered them.
One of the key objectives of Mr R was greater flexibility and so IFP recommended the 
SIPP as the fund offered more flexibility and discretion whilst also aligning with his 
attitude to risk.
The investigator appreciated this feature may have been attractive to Mr R, however she 
said this didnt mean that he needed it. She also said, it could be said until he was cold 
called, he was perfectly fine with pension fund. She appreciated that at the point of transfer 
Mr R had 17 years until retirement which meant he had more time to go through the 
economic cycles that would span 17 years and time to absorb any short- term fluctuation. 
However, it could also be said because he had so long, he could have waited to switch as 
he had no imminent reasons to switch.
She noted IFP mentioned that the New fund was more suitable to his risk levels. Whilst 
she appreciated the point, she also noted there were over 200 alternative fund choices 
within Mr Rs existing personal pension that could have fit his risk profile. It was repeatedly 
mentioned in the report that It is worth noting that  do offer alternative funds for 
you to join, which could fit your current risk profile. Therefore, there was no need for 
Mr R to switch to a SIPP as there were other personal pension options available and these 
alternative funds should have been explored first.
Furthermore, it stated in the suitability report that InterestMe Wealth had only been 
running the portfolios for 1 year and the 5-year performance had been back-tested on a 
simulated basis. This suggested the portfolio was potentially riskier than was stated.
Given Mr Rs circumstances, in that he was unemployed, the investigators view was that 
he could not afford to increase the investment risks associated with his sole source of 
retirement income. Nor could he accept the additional charges associated with the 
proposed SIPP.
Her assessment was that based on his expected investment duration to retirement 
age, Mr R could accept the risks associated with investment in his then current .. 
Managed Fund within his existing personal pension.
Conclusion
In conclusion, for the reasons she explained, the investigator considered Mr Rs complaint 
should be upheld. In her view the advice to transfer was unsuitable and she dont think the 
reasons given in the suitability report justifed the need to switch to a more expensive policy, 
when there were so many cheaper alternatives available to Mr R.In response to the view, IFP said it had carried out a loss assessment in line with the 
methodology proposed by the investigator. It calculated that redress of £4,092 was due to Mr 
R. It made the offer on a without prejudice basis and reserved the right to continue to defend 
the claim if the offer wasnt accepted. 
In response Mr Rs CMC said it didnt agree with the calculation. This was due to its 
concerns that the figures didnt fit with its experience of cases involving one of the 
investments, which it said were frequently valued at zero. 
The CMCs comments were passed onto IFP by the investigator. In response IFP said that 
CMCs view appeared to be that some of the underlying investments within the account had 
no actual value and were illiquid. It didnt agree, as it believed the bonds were tradeable on 
the open market and it had been able to establish evidence of this from recent trades. It 
provided evidence of recent trades. It didnt think based on the evidence it had that the 
bonds could be viewed as having no value or that they were illiquid. 
In response the CMC said that the offer had not been put to Mr R due to the disagreement 
regarding the calculation. It said it had experience of the financial services compensation 
scheme (FSCS) applying a nil value in respect of other similar complaints regarding such 
funds. And it said that IFP had stated in a previous communication that the funds were 
suspended, which suggested they were illiquid and didnt have a current recognised value. It 
asked the investigator for her thoughts on the issue.
The investigator wrote to Mr Rs CMC again. She explained that it wasnt her role to carry 
out the calculation, but to look at whether the recommended guidelines had been followed 
when carrying out the calculation. She went on to say that the dispute concerned the 
underlying value of the investments. She recognised that the CMC felt that the investments 
had no value but was satisfied IFP had provided evidence that they did have a value. In the 
absence of any evidence to support why the investments had no actual value, she thought 
the offer was suitable.  
In response the CMC said the calculations were incorrect. It pointed again to decisions made 
by the FSCS. It said the FSCS had considered underlying assets to be illiquid. And it quoted 
extracts from letters it said had been received from the FSCS referring to the funds in 
dispute. It didnt accept the information provided by IFP to state that the investments were 
tradeable. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review. Once I 
reviewed the file, I asked the investigator to write to IFP to confirm the funds within the SIPP. 
In response it provided an up to date fund value and a list of the holdings in the account. 
The investigator also wrote to some of the funds in dispute at my request, to ask if payments 
or transfers could be made out of the funds, and whether they could be valued.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 February 2022, explaining why I was upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. I also set out what IFP needed to do to compensate Mr R. 
In response Mr Rs representative asked what would happen if there was an issue with any 
calculation of redress particularly with regard to the liquidity of any investments. Our 
investigator explained on my behalf, that we expect businesses to carry out calculations in 
line with our directions. And that we wont get involved with disputes about the 
implementation of redress. But if Mr R had problems, he could inform us of those. IFP didnt initially respond to my provisional decision. I had asked for responses by 4 March 
2022. Our investigator contacted IFP on 8 March 2022 and asked it to confirm it had 
received the decision.  She wrote to it on 9 March 2022 and asked for a response as to 
whether it had received the decision by close of business that day. She also said that any 
comments needed to be with us by 11 March 2022 and the ombudsman would proceed to a 
final decision immediately after that date. 
IFP contacted us on 16 March 2022 asking for a time extension until 25 March 2022. The 
investigator wrote to IFP on my behalf and informed it that the request was declined. This 
was because it had already had a time extension and had had more than the time provided 
to it by me to respond to my provisional decision. She told it that I would now proceed to 
issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings in relation to the merits of the complaint, I want to make my 
position clear in relation to IFPs request for further time to respond to my provisional 
decision. The dispute resolution (DISP) rules under which I must operate, allow me to set 
time limits for any aspect of a complaint that I am asked to consider. And those powers are 
set out within DISP 3.5.13  3.5.15.
Ive thought carefully about IFPs request for further time to respond to my provisional 
decision. Ive decided not to allow it further time, because I think it has already had sufficient 
time to make any representations it may have wanted to make. It has had time to respond 
beyond the initial deadline I set. And its not given any substantive reasons as to why it 
needs further time or why it didnt acknowledge receipt of my provisional decision. So, Im 
not persuaded that a further time extension is warranted in this case.
When IFP communicated its offer to our investigator, it said the offer was made on a without 
prejudice basis, and if it wasnt accepted by Mr R, it reserved the right to continue to defend 
the claim. 
As Mr Rs CMC hasnt accepted the offer and IFP hasnt confirmed it isnt continuing to 
defend the complaint, I will for the avoidance of any doubt consider the suitability of the 
advice provided to Mr R by IFP.
Its clear there is a disagreement between the parties as to the current status of some of the 
funds within Mr Rs SIPP. The CMC on behalf of Mr R thinks a number of them are illiquid 
and should be ascribed a zero value. IFP disagrees. The investigator didnt consider how 
this issue should be addressed in her assessments, so I will also specifically set out my 
opinion as to what needs to be done in respect of any funds that are identified as being 
illiquid.
Suitability of the advice to transfer Mr Rs personal pension into a SIPP
I dont think the advice given to Mr R to transfer his personal pension into a SIPP was 
suitable, for the same reasons given by the investigator. In summary I think:
The recommendation failed to take into account the regulatory guidance issued in 
2008 in relation to pension switching. 
The SIPP charges were significantly more than those that applied to Mr Rs existing 
personal pension. The charges comparison illustrations showed that the SIPP recommended was more expensive that the existing personal pension.
The charges and transfer penalty suggest the potential for Mr R to gain from 
transferring into a more expensive product were reduced.
Other options such as a stakeholder pension didnt appear to have been fully 
considered.
Mr R was unemployed. It didnt seem likely that the expensive SIPP product 
recommended was necessary or appropriate for someone of his circumstances, 
which also indicated that he was an inexperienced investor.
Mr Rs investment experience and circumstances didnt suggest he needed the 
flexibility provided by the SIPP, or that he had any clear need to transfer to another 
pension at that point.
Mr Rs existing personal pension had a significant number of alternative funds that 
fell within his existing risk profile. There was no need for Mr R to transfer his pension 
to a SIPP when his existing pension, or other cheaper alternatives could have met 
his requirements. 
The recommendation increased Mr Rs investment risk when his personal 
circumstances and reliance in retirement on the personal pension that was 
transferred, indicated that he didnt have the capacity to accept such risks.  
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr R would have remained with his previous provider. I am satisfied that what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable in this situation.
What must IFP do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, IFP must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
IFP should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, IFP should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If IFP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either IFP or Mr R dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us 
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Mr R 
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IFP deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. IFP should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
potentially 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as appears to be 
a possibility this case.
IFP should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount IFP pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If IFP is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. IFP may require that Mr R provides an undertaking to pay IFP 
any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. IFP will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr R's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. IFP should request that the previous provider calculate this value.Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
IFP totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP will continue to exist if there are illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by IFP taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr R can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If IFP is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr R an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
IFP should provide Mr R with a detailed breakdown of how it calculates any compensation.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
IFP pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My provisional decision is that IFP should pay the 
amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that IFP pays Mr R the balance plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
If IFP does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment currently illiquid should 
be retained by Mr R. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from the portfolio 
together with the compensation paid by IFP (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair 
compensation as set out above.
IFP may request an undertaking from Mr R that either he repays to IFP any amount Mr R 
may receive from the portfolio thereafter, or if possible, transfers the investment to IFP at 
that point.
Mr R should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman