DRN-1476813
 
The complaint
Ms S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
department store Chargecard account. 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this complaint, so Ill just refer to 
Allianz in this decision.
What happened
Ms S opened the account and took out the PPI policy in 1994 whilst out shopping. The policy 
protected Ms S in the event she couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It also included life cover and wouldve cleared the card in the event of 
death. 
Ms S said that she wasnt ever told that shed taken out PPI and it was added onto the card 
without her knowledge. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Allianz made Ms S aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. 
Ive seen the application form Ms S completed. She ticked the box for PPI. 
Ms S couldve left the PPI part of the form blank if she didnt want the policy. And I think she 
wouldve understood this because I can see that she left blank the tick boxes for some other 
optional features she couldve taken out with her card. So it looks to me like she chose to 
take out the PPI  knowing it was up to her to say if she wanted it. Its easy to understand 
that Ms S mightve forgotten this now, given that she completed the application so long ago. 
Allianz didnt advise Ms S to buy the policy. But it still needed to give Ms S enough 
information to allow her to make an informed decision about whether or not to buy the policy.
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Ms S mightve got. And it wouldve 
paid out until Ms Ss outstanding balance at the time of the claim was repaid, or until she 
went back to work. This wouldve given her peace of mind, and allowed her to use any payments from work (if her employer paid sick pay) to meet other expenses at whats likely 
to have been a difficult time for her.  
It isnt clear how long she wouldve been paid sick pay  if at all. And Ms S told us that she 
had no other way of making the monthly repayments on her card if she wasnt working. 
The policy would also have paid out if shed lost her job. 
So I think the policy couldve been useful to Ms S and she couldve benefitted from having 
PPI if she had needed to claim.  
Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ms S chose to take out the policy when she didn't have to and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover  but it doesnt look to me as if Ms S was 
affected by any of those exclusions or limitations. So having more information about things 
the policy didnt cover isnt likely to have put her off taking it out.
Theres some information about how much Ms S would pay for the policy on the application 
form she completed. I think that Allianz couldve explained the cost and benefits of the policy 
more clearly. But, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Ms S couldnt afford to pay for it. And she 
couldve cancelled the policy if her circumstances had changed and paying for the cover 
became unaffordable for her. 
Looking at the overall benefits the policy offered Ms S in her particular situation, I think it 
unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think Ms S would still have taken out the policy.
This means Ms S isnt any worse off as a result of anything Allianz did wrong, so it doesnt 
need to do anything to put things right. 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Ms S has told us, including what 
shes said in response to our adjudicators assessment. I am sorry to see that shes had to 
take time off work as a result of ill health. But as she took out the policy before her conditions 
were diagnosed, this wouldnt have affected her ability to claim on the policy if she was off 
work sick and met the requirements to make a claim. 
Ms S may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider 
a backdated (retrospective) claim. If Ms S pursues a retrospective claim and finds that she 
has concerns in this regard, then she should first tell the insurer why shes unhappy, and if 
unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, she may be able to bring a complaint relating to 
the retrospective claim to this Service as a separate matter. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman