DRN-3812900
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received in a branch of Nationwide Building Society, 
when he was trying to move some money from his sons passbook account (on which he is 
the signatory) to his sons current account, and pay in some cash to his own account.
What happened
Mr F said he was very unhappy with how Nationwide had dealt with him in a branch, when 
he tried to move money between his sons accounts. Mr F said that Nationwide refused this 
transaction at the time because staff said the passbook had not been signed, then later 
falsely claimed hed been abusive to its staff.
Mr F said he complained, and received a call from the branch manager saying the three staff 
members hed spoke to the day before had claimed he was rude, aggressive and 
threatening. Mr F said he was unhappy that Nationwide had made its mind up about his 
complaint without hearing his side of the story. He asked if the call was recorded, he said he 
was told it was. And he told us hed asked the manager to view the CCTV. 
Mr F said he also asked to escalate his complaint, but Nationwide then wrote to him without 
speaking to him, so again it hadnt taken account of his side of the story. Instead, he said 
Nationwide threatened to close his accounts. Mr F asked for call recordings, and CCTV 
footage, but he said he was then told that his call with the manager hadnt been recorded 
after all, and the CCTV wasnt working on the day Mr F was in the branch.
Mr F said if what Nationwide had said was true, about his behaviour in the branch, he 
wanted to know why the police hadnt been called, and why Nationwides staff hadnt logged 
a complaint about him at the time. 
Mr F said Nationwide had caused him great distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering, and 
defamation and reputational damage. He wanted compensation.
Nationwide said it had refused to serve Mr F in the branch because he was uncooperative 
and abusive to its staff. It sent our service testimony from the time, recalling Mr Fs 
behaviour, and the reasons for its decision. Nationwide said that unfortunately it wasnt able 
to share CCTV footage with Mr F or us, because the CCTV in the branch had been out of 
service for some time  branch staff said there were records that it had both reported the 
problem and chased this up before Mr Fs complaint was made.
The first investigator who looked at this issue for our service didnt think Mr Fs complaint 
should be upheld. He accepted that CCTV wasnt available, and unfortunately there wasnt 
other evidence to show that Nationwide had made an error when refusing to provide Mr F 
with service. He said it wasnt appropriate to make a finding on what was or wasnt said at 
the time, but Nationwide does have the right to refuse service. So he wouldnt recommend 
that Nationwide took further action here.
Mr F replied to say he didnt agree. He sent us call recordings from Nationwide, which he 
said would confirm his version of events. And he said that if the CCTV wasnt working in the 
branch, then surely the manager would know this? It must be part of her job to be aware of 
such security issues, so he thought it wouldve been mentioned on his call with her, when he 
asked her to view the CCTV. Mr F also repeated that if staff were concerned about his 
behaviour, then why didnt they report him? He thought the three staff hed spoken to on the 
day had simply concocted matching stories. But our investigator didnt change his mind. 
This case was then passed to a new investigator, due to staffing changes at our service. 
This investigator didnt think our service could consider this complaint. But Ive since issued 
a decision clarifying that we can. 
Our service has already issued one view on the merits of Mr Fs complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think it should be upheld, and Mr F has been clear about why he didnt agree. So this 
case then came to me for a final decision on whether or not it should be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr F would like our service to view CCTV, and to listen to the call he had with the 
branch manager the day after his visit. I havent been able to do those things. But I dont 
think that Nationwide is withholding evidence from Mr F, or indeed from our service. 
Nationwide has said the branch managers call wasnt recorded. I know Mr F said he was 
told it was, but Nationwide has shown us internal notes, made by the manager of the branch, 
which say Mr F was unhappy that this call wasnt being recorded. These internal notes are 
dated 7 September 2021, so it seems likely that they were made on the day when Mr F 
spoke to the branch manager, and significantly, that they were made before he asked for the 
call recording. So I dont think there was a recording of this call. 
Nationwide has also told us that the CCTV had been unavailable for some days prior to Mr 
Fs visit to branch, and that staff at the branch had been chasing up awaited repairs. I accept 
what Nationwide says about that, I dont think its likely that CCTV footage of his visit was 
available. And I can see that the same managers notes I referred to above, only say that the 
CCTV has no sound. They dont explain that the CCTV wasnt functioning at the time. 
I dont think Mr F was told on his call with the branch manager, the day after the incident, 
that the CCTV hadnt been working the day before. But I wouldnt expect a branch manager 
to explain that to a customer, especially while repairs were still awaited.
I know that Mr F says that there is evidence which confirms his version of events, and he 
sent us three call recordings he said supported his story. But those calls are simply evidence 
of what Mr F told Nationwide, they dont provide clear evidence about what actually 
happened on the day. So whilst I agree that they are relevant to this case, as they provide 
information on what Mr F said closer to the time, I dont think they resolve things for us here. 
There just doesnt seem to be any direct evidence of what happened on the day. That 
means I cannot be entirely sure that things happened as Mr F has alleged. Ive got to decide 
what is most likely, on balance, to have occurred, from the evidence I do have.
And here, I do think its relevant to consider the calls Mr F sent us. I note that on the first call 
Mr F had with Nationwide, he was happy to explain the reasons for the transfer he wanted to make on a childs behalf  the child in question had committed to a large purchase, that they 
needed to pay for, and Mr F was moving money to cover those costs. Mr F was asked about 
the reason for the transfer in the branch, but on the call he had after his branch visit, he said 
that hed responded to this question in branch by saying Im not at liberty to say. I do think 
its reasonable for Nationwide to ask the reason for the transfer, either over the phone or in 
branch, and I would expect it to be concerned if Mr F refused to reply.
I think its also clear from the calls Ive listened to, that Mr F was already very upset about a 
previous complaint, and planning to end his association with Nationwide. Although he told us 
hed closed his accounts as part of this complaint, in response to Nationwides unjustified 
threat to close them in future, the calls make clear that Mr F was already planning to do that 
before he visited the branch. 
Mr F also wanted to know why Nationwide hadnt called the police or reported his behaviour 
internally if hed really been as rude and threatening as Nationwide said. But I wouldnt 
necessarily expect the police to be called in circumstances like those described by 
Nationwide. I would expect Nationwide to take steps to warn Mr F about his behaviour, if he 
had been rude in branch. And, reading the letters it sent to Mr F in response to his 
complaint, it does look as if Nationwide did that. So I dont think that how Nationwide has 
dealt with Mr F is inconsistent with what it says happened.
I havent reached a decision here that its most likely things happened in the way that 
Nationwide said. I dont need to reach that decision here. Thats because, to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint as he would wish, I would have to decide that its more likely than not that events 
unfolded more or less as Mr F described them. Ive considered the evidence from both sides 
carefully, and, on balance, I havent been able to do that. I dont think Im able to decide here 
that its most likely that Nationwide provided the poor service Mr F described, on his branch 
visit on 6 September 2021. And for that reason, although I know Mr F will be disappointed, I 
dont think that his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman