DRN-4360941
The complaint
Mr Y complains about contact from Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd (Lantern) in relation 
to someone elses debt.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In February 2023 Mr Y received a letter from Lantern that indicated he owed £176.50 in 
relation to a debt it had recently purchased. Mr Y has explained he didnt recognise the debt 
so contacted Lantern. It later came to light that a mistrace via a credit reference agency had 
led to Mr Y being contacted by Lantern in relation to someone elses debt.
Mr Y complained and Lantern issued a final response on 14 April 2023. Lantern apologised 
for contacting Mr Y about someone elses debt and gave additional background information 
about credit reference agencies. Lantern added that it had removed Mr Ys address from the 
account so no further contact would be made.
Mr Y has explained Lantern later wrote to him at a previous address and his current address, 
despite promising to stop future correspondence. Mr Y complained to Lantern and it issued 
another final response on 25 July 2023. Lantern explained that whilst it had removed Mr Ys 
details, another tracing exercise by a credit reference agency completed on 5 July 2023 had 
found his details. Lantern explained it had again removed Mr Ys details from the account 
and that no further contact relating to its customer would be made.
Lanterns final response added that Mr Ys address is linked to the debt and borrower via the 
credit reference agencies so there is potential for future mistraces to be made. Lantern 
advised Mr Y to contact the credit reference agencies and ask them to remove any links 
between Mr Y and its customer. Lantern also offered Mr Y £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr Y referred his case to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lantern had made a fair offer to resolve Mr Ys complaint and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr Y asked to appeal and said he didnt agree the level of compensation offered was a 
fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused by Lanterns contact. As Mr Y asked 
to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
All parties broadly agree about the timeline for Mr Ys complaint. Mr Y says that despite 
raising the issue with Lantern in February 2023, it went on to contact him about the same 
debt again despite knowing he wasnt the borrower. And Mr Y has pointed out that he has 
spent a significant amount of time liaising with Lantern and trying to resolve the matter. Mr Y 
says that £50 doesnt fairly reflect his experiences and the contact hes received from 
Lantern. I agree with Mr Y.
Whilst I understand the initial contact came about due to a mistrace via a credit reference 
agency, once Lantern investigated and confirmed Mr Y wasnt the customer, it was aware 
the debt belongs to someone else. Despite knowing Mr Y wasnt the customer, Lantern still 
sent collections correspondence to two addresses associated with him. In my view, Lantern 
was aware Mr Y wasnt its customer so shouldve had controls in place to ensure no further 
contact was made (in line with its assurances in the 14 April 2023 final response). But, 
despite confirming Mr Y wasnt the borrower earlier in the year, Lantern continued to contact 
him about the outstanding balance.
Im satisfied Mr Y was put to a reasonable level of inconvenience requiring him to contact 
Lantern on various occasions. And its clear Mr Y has been particularly distressed by the 
contact from Lantern over several months and has told us about concerns of identity fraud. 
Its clear Mr Y is concerned that Lantern will continue to pursue him, despite its most recent 
assurances. Im satisfied that £50 doesnt fairly reflect the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr Y.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ys complaint and increase 
the settlement from £50 to £150. In my view, that more reasonably reflects the impact of Mr 
Ys experience with Lantern on him and is a fairer way to resolve his complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Neither party sent in new information or 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ys complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ys complaint and direct Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd 
to settle by paying him a total of £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman