DRN-3438086
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the time taken by American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) to consider a claim he made for flights paid on his credit card. 
What happened
Mr B purchased flights for around £200, through a company Ill refer to as S using his 
AESEL credit card in January 2020. He was due to take the flights in April 2020. 
However, Mr Bs flights were cancelled by S and it offered him a future travel voucher. Mr B 
didnt accept this and explained he wanted a refund for the cost of the flights, as the friend 
he was due to visit, no longer lived in the country he was intending to travel to. He 
complained to S and said he was entitled to a full refund due to the European Commission 
guidance on refunds due to Covid-19. 
Mr B complained to AESEL in April 2020. In May 2020, he made a further complaint to 
AESEL as it hadnt provided him with an outcome to his claim.
AESEL issued its response to Mr Bs complaint in May 2020. It didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and said that there wasnt a timeframe in which it was required to respond to a 
claim made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s75). It also said that as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic, its UK offices were closed and it was adapting its existing 
processes. It also said it couldnt comment on the outcome of a third party claim.
Unhappy with this, Mr B referred his complaint to this service. He said AESEL should refund 
him for the cost of the flights. Since referring the complaint to this service, Mr B has 
confirmed that he received a full refund of the cost of the flights in July 2021 from the flight 
provider. 
In March 2022, our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He said AESEL 
should have considered raising a chargeback, which he thought would have had a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. He also said whilst AESEL thought Mr Bs claim didnt 
meet the requirements for a valid claim under s75, he thought it did. He said because 
AESEL didnt raise a chargeback when it should have, AESEL delayed Mr B from receiving 
a refund. He recommended that AESEL should pay Mr B £100 compensation
AESEL disagreed. It said it raised a s75 claim rather than a chargeback claim, because Mr B 
instructed it to. And it said because the flight supplier had provided an alternative remedy, it 
frustrated the chargeback. AESEL said Mr B didnt explain that hed had any financial loss as 
a result of the delay in receiving a refund and felt it had taken appropriate action in 
assessing Mr Bs s75 claim.
Our investigator responded and said it would have been good practice for AESEL to attempt 
a chargeback for Mr B. He also said the terms and conditions of the flight provider from 
around the time the sale was carried out, stated a customer could choose how to receive a 
refund where a flight was cancelled. And so, he said a chargeback would likely have been 
successful. 
AESEL disagreed and said Mr B had booked a non-refundable flight and so he would have 
likely been told a chargeback wouldnt have been successful if it had been raised. It also 
said chargeback is a voluntary scheme which wouldnt take precedence over a merchants 
terms of booking. 
As AESEL remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To make it clear, this complaint is about AESEL, as Mr Bs credit card account provider. Its 
not about the flight provider or S, who arent financial service providers and so dont fall 
within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute in two ways  chargeback and s75. 
In this case, AESEL didnt attempt a chargeback and instead considered Mr Bs claim under 
s75. Mr B has also since received a refund from the flight supplier directly. So Ive 
considered whether AESEL should have raised a chargeback when Mr B complained to it. 
And if it should have, what, if anything, it should do to put things right.
A card issuer can attempt a chargeback in certain circumstances when a cardholder has a 
dispute with a merchant  for example when goods or services arent provided. It isnt a legal 
right and theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. 
The chargeback process is subject to the rules of the scheme and strict criteria apply.
AESEL say Mr B never instructed it to raise a chargeback, which is why it didnt consider 
raising one. It also said even if it did raise a chargeback, Mr Bs flight was non-refundable 
and so it would likely have been unsuccessful. However, its generally considered good 
practice for a card issuer to raise a chargeback, if there is a reasonable prospect of a 
chargeback succeeding. 
In this case, Mr B didnt receive the flights he was due to receive, but this was through no 
fault of his own. The flights were cancelled by S, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. AESEL 
has said the flight was non-refundable. But the terms and conditions AESEL are referring to 
dont cover cancellation by S. So, Ive reviewed what Ss terms and conditions say about 
cancellation by it. 
Having done so, the terms and conditions say that in these circumstances, within seven 
days, Ss customer will be offered a choice between cash, bank transfer, bank cheque or 
travel vouchers/other services with written consent. However, Mr B was only offered travel 
vouchers and these were offered without his written consent. So I think if AESEL had raised 
a chargeback at the time, it would have likely succeeded given S didnt appear to obtain     
Mr Bs consent to provide him with travel vouchers and because S didnt appear to provide 
Mr B with any options of how hed like to be reimbursed. I also think its unlikely S offered 
any options to Mr B, given hes provided supporting information to show he contacted it to 
ask for a refund instead of a travel voucher.
In light of this, I think AESEL should have attempted to raise a chargeback on behalf of Mr B 
when he initially contacted. If it had done, I think the chargeback would have had a 
reasonable prospect of success. This would have likely meant that Mr B would have been 
provided with a permanent refund a lot sooner than he eventually was. And because I think 
AESEL should have attempted to raise a chargeback, which I think would have a likely 
prospect of succeeding, I havent considered whether it was fair for AESEL to decline Mr Bs 
claim considering s75.
Ive gone on to consider the impact of this to Mr B. Mr B was provided with a refund from S 
directly in July 2021. This was around 15 months after he made a complaint to AESEL about 
the transaction. I think its unreasonable that Mr B had to wait this long to obtain a refund, 
given I think there was a reasonable prospect of Mr Bs chargeback claim succeeding had 
AESEL raised one. I also think this caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience as he had 
to continue to pursue his complaint with S, until he received a refund in July 2021. So I think AESEL should pay Mr B £100 to recognise the delay and the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay    
Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman