DRN-4175612
The complaint
Mr K complains about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and the pre-accident valuation (PAV) 
they placed on his car after it was deemed a total loss following a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr K held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by EIL. Unfortunately, in January 2023, Mr 
K was involved in a road traffic accident. So, he contacted EIL to make a claim. 
As a result of the damage to Mr Ks car, it was deemed a total loss. So, EIL calculated a 
PAV for Mr Ks car of £12,339.00, after considering motor trade guides. But Mr K was 
unhappy with this valuation, so he raised a complaint.
Mr K didnt think the valuation calculated by EIL was a fair one. He didnt think it took into 
account his cars optional extras which he felt substantially increased its value. And because 
of this, he didnt think the PAV put forward by EIL allowed him to purchase a car of a similar 
make and specification and so, he wanted EIL to increase this settlement amount.
EIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained how they reached the 
PAV put to Mr K. And they explained why they felt this offer was a fair one. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mr K remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us. But he also cashed the settlement offer on the table, as he was 
without a car or funds to replace it at the time.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They explained they had obtained a 
bespoke valuation from one of the motor trade guides, CAP, which valued Mr Ks car at a 
higher amount than the CAP valuation EIL used. Our investigator felt the bespoke valuation 
took into consideration all of Mr Ks car optional extras and so, they used this valuation in 
place of the CAP valuation EIL had used originally. And our investigator also considered the 
Cazoo valuation, which EIL had discounted as an anomaly. Having calculated the valuation 
this way, our investigator came to an average valuation of £13,185.40, higher than the 
settlement offer EIL had put to Mr K. So, our investigator thought EIL should value Mr Ks car 
at this amount and pay this amount to him, minus any applicable excess.
Mr K accepted this recommendation. But EIL didnt. They thought theyd attempted to 
consider Mr Ks optional extras in their CAP valuation. And they didnt think it was fair to 
expect them to obtain bespoke valuations for all of the claims they process. So, they 
maintained their belief their original valuation was a fair one and didnt think they needed to 
do anything more.
Our investigator considered EILs comments, but their opinion remained unchanged. And 
they returned to EIL to explain that, as they felt Mr K shouldve been offered a higher 
amount, that they also thought EIL should pay 8% interest on the difference between their 
valuation, and the valuation our investigator had calculated, from the date of offer to the date 
of payment.
Mr K again accepted this recommendation. But EIL didnt for the same reasons as previously 
stated. As EIL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
clearly our services approach to complaints about the valuation of a car. This services 
approach is that we dont provide valuations for cars but instead look to see whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable. And when assessing whether a reasonable offer has been 
made, we obtain valuations from motor-trade guides.
In this situation, I can see EIL followed this same approach, as Id expect them to do. They 
obtained valuations from four motor trade guides, which ranged between £12,028.00 to 
£14,406.00. EIL took the decision to discount the highest valuation, which they felt was an 
anomaly, and took an average of the three remaining valuations, which calculated to 
£12,339.00. And this is the offer they put to Mr K.
To consider whether this offer was fair, our service obtained valuations from the same four 
guides, as well as a fifth guide we also consider. I can see that the valuations from Glasss, 
Parkers and Cazoo matched the valuations obtained by EIL.
But the valuation provided by CAP on a bespoke basis to our service valued Mr Ks car at 
£13,495.00, compared to the CAP valuation provided to EIL of £12,028.00. And from what I 
can see, the main reason for this was our service ensuring all of the optional extras included 
with Mr Ks car were included. While I do appreciate in their own valuation from CAP EIL did 
attempt to include as many of the optional extras as possible, I think its fair for me to 
assume that, as this wasnt a bespoke valuation that included all the extras, the valuation 
EIL relied upon wasnt a fair one. So, I think its fair and reasonable for me to consider the 
bespoke valuation, rather than EILs initial valuation obtained from CAP, when calculating 
what I think a fair settlement offer should be.
I appreciate EIL are unlikely to agree with this. And theyve raised valid concerns about 
whether they should be expected to obtain bespoke valuations on every claim they process. 
But my decision is focused solely on this complaint, and its individual circumstances. So, it 
isnt impacted by what EIL feels would be an unreasonable precedent to set over all claims. 
In this situation, I think its clear a bespoke valuation has provided a more accurate valuation 
due to the significant increase and so, for this complaint only, I think its reasonable to use 
this valuation rather than the original valuation from CAP EIL obtained.
I also note EIL chose to discount the valuation provided by Cazoo, which valued Mr Ks car 
at £14,406.00. I can see this valuation was just under £1,000 more than the next highest 
valuation I think should be used, at £13,495.00. And it is around £1,200 more than the 
middle trade guide valuation of £13,037, obtained from Autotrader by our service but not 
obtained by EIL. 
But I can see the lowest trade guide valuation of £12,350.00 is just under £800 less the 
same middle trade guide valuation. So, when considering both the highest and lowest 
valuation against the middle trade guide valuation, I dont think its reasonable on this occasion to say the valuation obtained from Cazoo is so significantly high that it should be 
discounted. And because of this, I think this valuation shouldve been included by EIL when 
calculating the valuation of Mr Ks car. 
Because of the above, I dont think the valuation placed on Mr Ks car, and ultimately the 
settlement Mr K received based on this valuation, was fair. And so, I dont think I can say EIL 
have acted fairly or reasonably when calculating the valuation on this occasion. As I dont 
think EIL acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think EIL should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think EIL should do to put things right, any award or direction is 
intended to place Mr K back in the position he wouldve been, had EIL acted fairly in the first 
instance.
Had EIL acted fairly, I think they wouldve obtained and used the following valuations to 
calculate Mr Ks car valuation:
Cazoo - £14,406
Cap - £13,495
Autotrader - £13,037
Parkers - £12,639
Glasss - £12,350
The average of these five valuations works out to be £13,185.40.  Had EIL acted fairly, I 
think this is the amount that shouldve been paid to Mr K, less any applicable excess. And 
so, I think EIL should pay Mr K the difference between their original settlement offer and the 
valuation of £13,185.40, to ensure he receives a fair and reasonable valuation for his car.
And in line with our services approach, I think EIL should add 8% simple interest to this 
amount from the date they finalised and raised their offer to Mr K to the date of payment, to 
recognise and address the length of time hes been without access to these funds.
I understand EIL is unlikely to agree with this. And they raised concerns about our 
investigator adding this interest to their award some time after their initial view. But Im 
satisfied EIL had an opportunity to comment on this interest and supply any considerations 
they wished for me to think about regarding this. And having thought about all of the 
comments provided by both parties, alongside all of the evidence supplied to me, Im 
satisfied the payment of this interest is both fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint about esure Insurance Limited 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr K the difference between £13,185.40 and the settlement they initially 
provided; and
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date they initially finalised and raised 
payment of their initial offer to Mr K to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman