DRN-1139642
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by Poole Townsend (PT). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A jointly took out a mortgage arranged by PT in 1998. At the same time they 
took out a regular premium MPPI policy. The policy was taken in Mr As name and wouldve 
covered  repayments on their mortgage if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if 
he lost his job for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork PT used at the time that they had a choice in taking the policy and 
thought it wouldve provided a suitable benefit.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They say they were told PPI was a mandatory and necessary 
requirement of the loan. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
PT had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs A that they had a choice in taking out the policy. Mr 
and Mrs A say this wasnt done but havent provided much detail about what was said to 
make them think this. Given the length of time since the sale I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs A 
to have a detailed recollection of what was discussed. So Ive relied more on what the 
documents from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Separate application forms were completed for Mr and Mrs As MPPI and mortgage and PT 
have given us a copy of both. 
I can see on the mortgage application form that under the section that deals with MPPI that 
PPI is recommended and the words TAKEN OUT INDEPENDENTLY hand written on it. I 
think this makes it clear that MPPI was not part of the mortgage and was at the very least 
discussed. 
Ive also seen a copy of the MPPI application that Mr A signed. I can see the application is 
entirely separate from the mortgage application and provides a number of options in relation to the MPPI cover on offer - unemployment only, disability only, unemployment and disability 
with different benefit and waiting periods. 
I can see that despite both Mr and Mrs A being jointly responsible for the mortgage and both 
working, MPPI was taken for Mr A only covering him for unemployment and disability with a 
benefit period of 12 months. I wouldve thought if MPPI was mandatory both working parties 
responsible for the mortgage wouldve had to be covered without the option to tailor the 
cover.    
So I think it was clear from the paperwork that Mr and Mrs A had a choice in taking out the 
policy because they were able to take out the policy independently from the mortgage and 
were able to tailor the cover to their needs on the MPPI application form. And I think Mr A 
signed the completed MPPI application form because he wanted the cover. 
This was an advised sale. What this means is that PT not only had to provide information 
about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs A could make an 
informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs As needs and circumstances.
I dont know if PT did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for them for the following reasons:
 
Mr A was eligible for cover and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of 
the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mr A says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had 
other means that would assist them in making their repayments if Mr A couldnt work. 
But a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of all of this and for 
potentially longer covering Mr and Mrs As mortgage payments for up to 12 months if 
Mr A was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs A in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments, I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. 
And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether PT gave Mr and Mrs A information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not they 
wanted to take the policy out. 
I can see the costs were clear from the quote but I dont know if PT gave all the information 
as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr 
and Mrs A have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken 
out the MPPI policy if theyd been given all the proper information at the time of sale.Which means PT doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman