DRN-3985455
The complaint
Mr Y has complained Santander UK plc wont refund money spent on gambling transactions, 
which he believes should have been stopped. Hes upset that Santander blocked a credit a 
gambling company tried to make to his account.
What happened
After being out with friends one night, Mr Y got back home but couldnt remember much else 
that happened. He believes his drinks were spiked. The following day Mr Y realised £18,450 
had been spent with gambling companies. He complained to Santander and asked them to 
block his card. They did this. Mr Y wanted Santander to refund him.
Santander reviewed their records of Mr Ys debit card usage. This showed transactions had 
been authenticated by Mr Y using his mobile app. The IP address also matched many 
previous transactions Mr Y had not disputed. Santander told Mr Y they wouldnt refund him 
as the transactions had been authorised by him.
Mr Y still believed Santander should have blocked the transactions because of the amount 
being spent. He was also concerned that after Santander had blocked his debit card, one of 
the gambling companies had tried to refund him £1,000 which hed never been able to get. 
Information given to him by Santander had not helped. Unhappy with what had happened, 
Mr Y brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator wouldnt ask Santander to do anything further. She believed the evidence 
showed Mr Y had authorised the transactions. She wouldnt have expected Santander to 
have blocked these once they were satisfied Mr Y was making these payments.
She noted Mr Y hadnt been able to get back £1,000 from one of the gambling companies 
(who Ill call W). However the evidence hed shared about this meant this seemed the fault of 
W and it wouldnt be fair to ask Santander to reimburse him.
Mr Y remained unhappy and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ys complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing thats had a 
major impact when I look at what happened in Mr Ys case.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Santander and 
Mr Y. Ive also noted what our investigator said in her view of 10 November 2022.
Firstly I believe there is no dispute that Mr Y authorised these gambling transactions. I 
appreciate Mr Ys memory was originally pretty unclear about the events of the relevant 
evening but the evidence about how his debit card was used and authenticated is 
convincing.
Specifically, I can see:
The IP address for these disputed transactions is the same used by Mr Y for other 
non-disputed transactions;
The transactions required additional authentication which was completed by My Y 
using his Santander app;
Santander would have certainly been reviewing Mr Ys transactions at the time he was 
spending more than £18,000. However this would have been to ensure the transactions 
were genuine and being carried out by Mr Y. Once satisfied by the additional authentication 
carried out, there would have been no reason for Santander to intervene. 
I appreciate Mr Y believes Santander could have taken steps to block his card. However if 
they had done so, I think its more than likely Mr Y would then have taken any necessary 
steps to unblock his card. 
Mr Y had used his debit card previously for gambling transactions. Im satisfied that a pattern 
of usage  of his debit card for gambling  had emerged so I wouldnt expect Santander to 
have intervened. I also note that at the time of these transactions, Mr Y spent less than half 
of the funds available in his account so Santander wouldnt have been prompted to follow up 
on any potential financial hardship concerns.
Mr Y is particularly concerned that W tried to refund him £1,000 and this transaction couldnt 
be made as his debit card was blocked at the time. This followed Mr Y asking Santander to 
block his debit card, which they did. I agree the information Santander gave Mr Y  including 
how to contact the relevant international card scheme  didnt help him get his money back 
but I dont believe this is now Santanders responsibility to put right.
Despite numerous attempts to contact W, Mr Y has been unable to get them to accept he 
had an account and that there remains an outstanding debt. Mr Y is aware that W is located 
and registered overseas so there is no ability to manage his concerns through the UK 
gambling authorities. I appreciate he has a valid dispute with W but I wont be asking 
Santander to refund him the money as this wouldnt be fair and reasonable. The original 
issue is the original transaction with W which Mr Y authorised himself. Ive not seen enough 
to suggest the problems Mr Y has experienced were caused by Santander.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ys complaint against Santander 
UK plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman