DRN-4294553
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt help or assist her when she 
informed it that she had become ill. She says Morses didnt listen and instead kept trying to 
collect payment towards the loan. Mrs G says the loan account has now defaulted which she 
doesnt think is fair.
What happened
The issues Mrs G has, stems from a loan of £600 advanced on 6 September 2021.Morses 
has confirmed that Mrs G still owes it £715 as of May 2023 having paid around £310. 
Morses also says Mrs Gs account hasnt been defaulted but it is reporting the account
as being in arrears.
Morses considered Mrs Gs complaint and issued its final response letter (FRL) on this
matter on 12 September 2022. The FRL didnt uphold the complaint and in summary made
the following conclusions:
Payments had been missed on the account since November 2021.
On 25 March 2022 a payment plan was agreed with Mrs Gs agent to pay £5 per 
week. And this wouldve prevented further collection activity except for regulatory 
notifications. However, this hold wasnt placed on the account.
In July 2022, Mrs G said she would be sending to Morses information about her 
health, which meant further action was then paused until 1 August 2022.
The information about Mrs Gs health was received at the end of August 2022.
Morses partly upheld the complaint, saying Although we have a duty of care to 
contact you and discuss the status of your account, I have been able to establish a 
scheduled action that was not placed correctly on 25 march 2022 [sic], when you 
discuss your circumstances with your AM. I have therefore upheld your complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs G referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and she partly upheld it. She explained
that Mrs G had a previous complaint dealt with by Morses in February 2022, and so although
she wasnt commenting on it, the adjudicator explained that from that point of time, Mrs G
was aware she may receive certain letters. Instead, the adjudicator considered Morses
actions from March 2022 onwards.
The adjudicator could see there were occasions where Mrs G was contacted even though
she had made payments towards her payment plan. She also said, Mrs G had in effect
overpaid under the terms of the plan  for example Mrs G made a payment of £15 on
31 March 2022. Although the adjudicator had concluded that at times it was right for Morses
to have sent the arrears letters.
Overall she concluded that there had been occasions where Mrs G had been contacted by 
the Morses agent when she shouldnt have been, and she also didnt think Morses had 
treated Mrs G fairly. To put things right the adjudicator recommended the following:
pay £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by contacting her,
remove the interest due for the loan and
reach an agreeable repayment plan with Mrs G.
Mrs G responded to say that she had never been contacted by the vulnerability team and
her credit file is showing that Morses has defaulted her account.
Morses didnt agree, and a summary of its response can be found below:
Morses confirmed the account hold wasnt correctly placed on the account, as 
agreed on 25 March 2022.
Although Mrs G arranged reduced repayments that doesnt alter the terms of the 
credit agreement which she signed and therefore arrears would continue to accrue.
Although token payments were expected each month  and at times Mrs G paid 
more than that, a payment was still expected each month. For example, when Mrs G 
paid £30 on 25 May 2022, this was significantly more than the £5 per month she had 
agreed  and so further investigation may have been needed by it.
Morses did ask for medical evidence and this was received from Mrs G and it didnt 
confirm any diagnoses but it was aware of further appointments Mrs G had.
The vulnerability team have tried to contact Mrs G but it hasnt heard from her.
Morses says no further action should be taken unless further medical evidence is 
provided by Mrs G.
After the complaint was allocated to me for a decision, I asked an adjudicator to obtain 
further information from both Mrs G and Morses.
In response to these further enquires, Mrs G provided;
A screen shot of her credit file, showing Morses has marked this loan as being
delinquent.
A list of medical appointments that Mrs G had attended (or was due to attend) from
March 2023 as well as a list of the current medication she has been prescribed.
The adjudicator then forwarded the information that was received from Mrs G to Morses to
see whether there was anything else that could be done to assist her.
Morses acknowledged the information it was given, and it confirmed some of it was the first
time it had seen it  such as the medication Mrs G has been prescribed. It also confirmed it
had written to Mrs G in February and March 2023 and but had not heard back from her. 
At the moment, Morses says there just isnt enough evidence for it to justify writing the loan
balance off. It also confirmed that it would work with Mrs G to set up a repayment plan for as 
little as £1 per month.
I proceeded to issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to 
uphold Mrs Gs complaint in part and I was intending to ask Morses to write off the 
outstanding loan balance. 
Both Mrs G and Morses were asked to provide any further comments and submissions as 
soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 4 August 2023.
A copy of the provisional findings follows this below in smaller font and italics and forms part 
of this final decision.What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive split this decision into two main parts, the first deals with Morses actions when it
contacted Mrs G  and what it knew and when. And secondly, the decision with the adverse
information being reported to Mrs Gs credit file.
Harassment
I appreciate Mrs G says she has been harassed by Mores. But harassment is a criminal
offence and not one that I am able to determine as criminal charges are prosecuted through
the courts. What I am interpreting Mrs Gs complaint to mean is that she feels it was too
much and unreasonable.
Ive considered both the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)
 this is the relevant guidance and rules, and the Debt Collection Guidance (DCG) issued by
the Office of Fair (OFT) trading which was the previous regulator of this type of credit.
Section 3 of the DCG relates to Unfair Business Practices. Ive done this because there is
reference to the DCG in CONC.
Given this is the wording of the regulation, I think its pertinent to consider what both CONC
and the DCG guidance says in relation to what has happened in this complaint.
However, thinking about what CONC and the DCG guidance says  Morses needed to take
into account the individual circumstances of the complainant. And Mrs G had told it from at
least March 2022 that she was ill and vulnerable. In addition, Morses knew from early notes
that other members of her family were also potentially vulnerable  and so that wouldve
impacted Mrs Gs situation further. Yet Morses didnt appear to do anything differently.
I can see from the contact notes that Mrs G had difficulties repaying the loan shortly after it
was approved. It would appear the first seven payments were made without any difficulty.
But after that, payments have been sporadic.
Morses was put on notice that Mrs G was suffering from ill health on 19 January 2022. The
note Morses has provided shows that she had been unwell, is paying for extra help, and is
left with only around £11 per week in disposable income.
I can see between 11 March 2022, when Mrs Gs account was taken off hold until
25 March 2022 when she spoke to it that there were 13 attempts to discuss Mrs Gs
outstanding balance with her. I dont think this was unreasonable, given that Mrs G had a
balance to pay and Morses didnt know how, at this time she intended to do so.
However, at least by 25 March 2022 Morses was informed about Mrs Gs health problems
and the fact that very little was likely to change for her within the next three months. Morses
says Mrs G agreed to pay £5 per week towards the balance and it agreed to place the
account on hold for four weeks. Morses has explained this would mean it wouldnt actively
pursue Mrs G through texts and phone calls but regulatory letters, such as a Notice of Sum in
Arrears could still be sent. I dont think, at this time the actions of Morses were
unreasonable.
Mrs G then made a £5 payment on 28 March followed by a £15 payment on
31 March 2022. However, despite agreeing to £5 per week Mrs G paid more than that at the
end of March but then didnt appear to make any further payments.
Due to an error, that Morses accepts has been made  the account hold wasnt correctly
applied, which resulted in calls and attempted visits by the agent.
On 6 May 2022 a new plan was set up following a further conversation with the agent further details were provided about Mrs Gs stays in hospital. At this point she agreed to pay
£5 per month. On 25 May 2022 Mrs G made a payment of £30  which is significantly more
than Morses was expecting.
Morses says, this was the reason why after the payment was made it tried to contact
Mrs G through text messages and through home visits. It made, according to the notes 13
such attempts through June 2022 and the beginning of July 2022.
I can understand, why Morses may have been concerned by the payment value because it
was so much larger than it was expecting, but I dont agree with the adjudicator here, that as
Mrs G had paid £30, she had in effect front loaded her payments for a period of six months.
Its also possible that Mrs G was trying to get ahead of the payments given she knew that
she may need to spend further time in hospital. That may well have been Mrs Gs intention,
but is so, this wasnt communicated to Morses.
However, I also have to consider that Mrs G had agreed to pay £5 per month and yet the
contact started in early June 2022, when at least she had made her May 2022 payment and
wasnt at this time, in breach of the payment plan she had agreed.
But equally, I also have to balance this with the fact that Morses was aware that Mrs G was
vulnerable and had been ill for some months. Mrs G says this contact was too much, and I
can quite understand why she feels that way.
On 7 July 2022, Mrs G contacted Morses to let them know that she was vulnerable 
something that Morses ought to have already concluded. On 20 July 2022 a further hold was
placed on the account. It isnt clear why this wasnt done earlier.
Indeed, Mrs G provided a further health update on 4 August 2022 and she provided an
update about her husband  which further reinforced that Mrs G was vulnerable. A further
28-days hold was then applied.
And due to the complaint process, it looks like that very few calls and contact were made
between Morses and Mrs G after August 2022. Expect for Morses providing a system note
showing its vulnerable customer team wrote to Mrs G in March 2023. I appreciate Mrs G has
said shes not heard from Morses, but the evidence provided does show it wrote to her.
However, it really isnt clear, given the information Morses had why it has taken seven
months for that team to contact her. This shouldve been done much sooner given the
information Mrs G had provided it. To me, it doesnt seem that Morses has recognised that
Mrs G may need additional support.
Ordinarily, given the circumstances of the complaint Id recommended a significant award of
compensation to Mrs G reflect the distress and inconvenience that was caused, by Morses
not reacting to the information it had been given. However, I dont think, given everything
else that it would help Mrs G in total to resolve the complaint and in fact would still leave her
having to deal with Morses moving forward. And so, Ive explained further below what
Morses will need to do to bring this matter to a close.
Default
Mrs G has sent the Financial Ombudsman a screen shot of a copy of her credit file. This
shows that Morses is currently showing the account is being recorded as being in
delinquency.
This means, that Morses has reported that Mrs G hasnt made payments in line with the
credit agreement. This does confirm however the account hasnt yet been defaulted. Morses
has also supplied the Financial Ombudsman with the information it is reporting to the credit
reference agencies. Morses is recorded the account as being 5 months in arrears, which
further supports the loan hasnt yet been defaulted.Based on the information that Ive seen; Im satisfied the loan account isnt currently
defaulted although it is being accurately reported that the account is in arrears. Although I
am intending to uphold the complaint I am not going to be asking Morses to make any
adjustments to the file.
How I propose Morses should do to put things right
I have thought about what the adjudicator asked Morses to do to put things right which
included, asking for a payment of compensation and to remove the interest from the loan. I
have thought about this and I can quite understand why she recommended this.
But I also have to consider the fact that Mrs G has provided evidence of her continued health
problems as well as hospital appointments she will need to attend in the coming weeks.
Which I think further supports that Mrs G continues to be vulnerable and this is also reflected
in the fact payments havent been made to the account for some time.
I accept that Morses would want to do a new income and expenditure form to see what
would be affordable for Mrs G  it has accepted that it agrees to payment plan for as little as
£1 per month  which would have the effect of it taking many years for Mrs G to repay what
she owes.
It is of course possible that the amount of time it would take to repay the loan could be
reduced on the basis that Mrs G would be able to pay more each month. But there is, as far
as I can see no realistic prospect of that happening given her current position.
Therefore, given the length of time that Mrs G has been unwell for, and has continued to be
ill, there doesnt appear to be any obvious change in her circumstance in the near to medium
term future, I think its fair, and reasonable, that in this case, taking the individual
circumstances that Mrs G loan account is closed without any further payments being made
by her to Morses.
Give a balance that still remains on the account, I wouldve ordinary asked for a payment of
compensation to be paid to Mrs G given the failings of Morses to have gotten to grips with
the fact that she was and is vulnerable and there had been no change of approach in dealing with her. 
However, in this case, I do think this fairer, for both parties if the loan agreement can be ended, as it 
would allow Mrs G to move on. In those circumstances, I therefore will be recommending that in lieu 
of any compensation payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G agreed with the provisional decision whereas, Morses asked for further information 
about Mrs Gs health. 
I thank Mrs G for providing the further information which has now been provided to Morses. 
However, no further response has been received so I think its fair to now issue the final 
decision in order to bring this matter to a close. 
I would add that the further information provided by Mrs G reinforces why I reached the 
conclusions that I did in the provisional decision and why I decided that the loan balance 
being written off is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this individual complaint. I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I previously made. 
And so, without any new evidence to make me think otherwise, I am still going to be 
directing Morses to write the balance off and I am still partly upholding the complaint. Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Mrs G.
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Morses should do the following:
Write off the remaining balance of the loan and
Update Mrs Gs credit file to show the loan has been partially settled, but Morses 
does not have to remove any adverse information that it has reported to date.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Gs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs G as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman