DRN-3506575
The complaint
Mr C complains that he first became aware that he was being charged a 7% Annual 
Management Charge (AMC) for his personal pension policy with ReAssure Limited 
(ReAssure) when he received his 2019 Annual Pensions Statement. He says he wasnt 
given this information when the pension was sold to him in 1994. Further, he thinks it unfair 
that he has been paying this level of charges for so long, as he wasnt told these costs would 
apply every year. Mr C says he has lost out financially because he wouldnt have agreed to 
take out a pension with this level of charges.
What happened
Mr C took out a pension with ReAssure in 1994. The policy was initially set up with a monthly 
contribution of £30 each month. Mr C says he was told at the time that some commission 
would be taken out to pay for its set-up. 
Mr C said he first became aware that he was paying a high amount in charges when he 
received his 2019 pension statement. This showed that hed paid in £749.34 during 2018-19 
((including tax relief) and that the charges out of the policy were £267.66. Mr C complained 
to ReAssure about the level of charges.
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They issued two separate final response letters to 
different aspects of his complaint. The 10 March 2020 response covered the AMC and Mr 
Cs complaint that they werent displayed on his annual statements until 2019. ReAssure 
said that their charges werent previously displayed in their letters, so its likely Mr C hadnt 
noticed the AMC before. They said theyd recently changed the way they provided 
information to their policyholders. And that their letters and statements were now much 
clearer so that their customers got all the relevant information annually. They also said that 
the terms and conditions of the policy allowed the deduction of such charges.
In their 16 March 2020 final response, ReAssure considered Mr Cs complaint about the 
level of charges hed been paying, without knowledge of the charges on the policy. They 
also considered his point that statements before 2019 hadnt been clear about how much 
hed been charged. And that hed paid into his policy for nearly 30 years but no one had 
advised him to switch to a policy with lower charges or told him how much hed been paying. 
They didnt uphold his complaint. They said they felt that the policy had been suitable for Mr 
Cs needs at the time of the sale. They also said that theyd recently detailed the charges on 
annual statements as they were trying to be more transparent with statements to make it 
clear what customers were being charged for. They said that the charges had always been 
on the policy and that they were clearly detailed within the terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with ReAssures response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and issued a view in July 2021 upholding Mr Cs complaint on its 
merits. He said he hadnt been able to locate any details of how much the charges on Mr Cs 
policy would be from the documentation ReAssure had supplied for that purpose. Therefore 
he couldnt see that Mr C had been provided with enough information about the charges to 
be able to make an informed decision about the policy. He felt that Mr C had been made to 
pay significant charges that he was unaware of from the start of the policy in late 1994 to the 
point when he discovered the level of charges after receiving the 2019 annual statement. He 
felt that as Mr C wasnt aware of the fees, it wasnt fair for them to be charged. He 
recommended that the AMC should be refunded. And that as these wouldve remained 
within the pension he also felt that the performance of the pension from the point of each 
charge to the point of settlement should be reviewed and any growth that had occurred 
should be applied accordingly. He also felt that ReAssure should add 8% simple interest per 
annum to the refunds and the growth.
ReAssure didnt agree with this view and said Mr Cs complaint had been out of time. In 
relation to the three-year part of this services rules, ReAssure said that Mr C ought to have 
been reasonably aware that he was paying charges because these were referred to in his 
2014 annual statement.
In his August 2021 jurisdiction view, our investigator felt that the complaint was outside of 
this services six and three rule because the 24 May 2014 annual statement had clearly laid 
out the percentage charged to each type of unit within his pension. So our investigator felt 
that Mr C ought reasonably to have known he had cause for complaint from this time. 
Therefore he wouldve had until 24 May 2017 to complain. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. In summary, he said:
His 2013 statement and others before that hadnt mentioned any charges.
Statements after 2014 also didnt refer to any charges being deducted, until the 2019 
statement. After hed received that statement, Mr C made his complaint. 
Mr C didnt remember seeing the 2014 statement and didnt have a copy of it. He 
may not have received it.
He was wrongly informed about the charges on the policy.
Mr Cs complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman so they could consider whether this 
service had jurisdiction to deal with his complaint.
In February 2022, the ombudsman issued his provisional decision in which he felt that the 
complaint was one that this service could consider the merits of. He didnt consider that Mr C 
had been given enough information to realise what the charges on his pension policy were. 
He said that the 2014 statement didnt make specific reference to the amount of charges that 
had been taken from the policy over the year. The ombudsman considered that it wasnt until 
Mr C received the 29 May 2019 annual statement, when charges were clearly outlined, that 
he ought reasonably to have known he had cause for complaint. And that as he had 
complained to ReAssure within three years of the date of the 2019 annual statement, his 
complaint was in this services jurisdiction.
ReAssure disagreed with the ombudsmans provisional decision. They felt that the 2015 
statement explained what funds Mr Cs policy was invested in. And gave information about 
where charges couldve been accessed. 
The ombudsman issued his final jurisdiction decision in March 2022. He still felt the 
complaint was in this services jurisdiction. He didnt agree with ReAssure that the 2015 
statement provided sufficiently clear information about charges so that Mr C ought 
reasonably to have known he had cause for complaint from this time. 
Our investigator asked ReAssure whether or not they accepted his July 2021 merits view. 
ReAssure said that they didnt. They said that Mr C had been provided with the Terms and Conditions of his policy at the time of sale. They felt these provided details of the charges 
applicable to his policy. They also felt that Mr C had received a number of Annual 
Statements which had confirmed those charges. ReAssure agreed that both the Terms and 
Conditions and the Annual Statements werent as explicit as they would be in 2022. But they 
still felt that they wouldve been compliant documents at that time. They said that we couldnt 
use hindsight to determine the quality of the documentation which was issued as it was 
correct at the time in question.
Mr C told this service in January 2022 that his policy is still active. And that he was charged 
a further £279 in 2021 after contributing £634 plus £158 added tax relief.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 May 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that there was an historical 
lack of clarity about the fees Mr C was required to pay. But I dont agree with our investigator 
that this means it wasnt fair for them to be charged at all. Ill explain why.
Our investigator felt that as Mr C wasnt aware of the fees, it wasnt fair for them to be 
charged. But from what Ive seen, Mr C was given information that there would be different 
charges between the two different types of units in his pension plan  the capital units and 
the accumulation units. Im not persuaded that it was clear exactly what those charges would 
be. But I am satisfied that Mr C was given information that showed that he would pay higher 
charges on capital units than on accumulation units. 
Accumulation units and initial/capital units
In some older plans, any regular contributions in early years mayve been used to buy initial 
or capital units. These attracted a higher annual charge than accumulation units, which 
were bought with the contributions later on. The reason is that the provider has usually paid 
an initial commission or salary to the adviser which assumes that the consumer would pay 
into their plan for the whole term up to retirement, whether the consumer actually does so or 
not. So the provider recoups most of the costs from the premiums paid into the plan in the 
early years.
Mr C said he remembered being told at the point of sale that the charges would be a bit 
higher for the first year as a commission, but that he didnt understand the high charges 
would continue. I cant know what was said at point of sale, but I can consider the 
documentation ReAssure said they gave Mr C at the time. 
ReAssure said that they wouldve supplied the following documents at the time of sale:
The Customer Fact Find
The Pensions Application Form
The Terms and Conditions of the Policy
Having carefully reviewed these documents, Ive not found that they stated what level of 
charges Mr C would be paying, or how long he would be paying at that level for.ReAssure also sent this service a copy of the earliest Key Features Document they had for 
the policy in question. While this document did state that the initial units would attract an 
additional management charge of 6% each year, Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr C 
was ever given this document.
In Mr Cs case, his 2014 and 2015 statement showed the split between the accumulation 
units and the capital units. His capital units  which attracted the additional charge  were 
less than 3% of the total value shown on both statements. Mr Cs 2019 statement didnt 
show the split of the accumulation and capital units, just the total. But the total amount 
charged was shown as £267.66. This amount was just over 1% of the total value of the fund. 
Therefore it should be noted that although the capital units did incur a higher charge than the 
accumulation units, Mr C held a very low proportion of capital units in his plan. So the impact 
of the higher capital unit charge was relatively low, and decreasing over time.   
ReAssure said that the 2014 annual statement had outlined the higher charges for initial 
units. This stated:
Unit Type Notes
Refer to your policy conditions for details of annual management charges that may apply to 
your policy.
1) Initial Units were allocated in respect of contributions paid in the first year or first two 
years. The fund value of these units is subject to an additional annual management charge 
of either 3.5% or 6%.
2) Accumulation Units are the standard type of units allocated in respect of contributions and 
are subject to an annual management charge of normally no more than 1% of the fund 
value.
3) Bonus Units do not have a value until the date specified in the terms and conditions. If you 
intend to seek financial advice, please be aware your financial adviser may charge you for 
their services.
Although I agree that this statement shows higher charges for initial units, it doesnt make 
specific reference to the amount of charges taken from Mr Cs policy during the year. So he 
wouldnt have known whether he was being charged an additional AMC of 3.5% each year, 
or 6% each year. But I am satisfied that he wouldve known an additional AMC was being 
levied on initial units.
Mr C said that the charges werent clearly stated every year  at least until 2019 when the 
amount hed been charged was given. He said he doesnt remember seeing the 2014 
statement. And that if he had he wouldve complained. 
Although I acknowledge that Mr C doesnt remember receiving the 2014 annual statement, I 
consider that its more likely than not that he did receive it. I say this because it was 
addressed to the same place as the 2015 statement, which Mr C did receive. Im satisfied 
that the 2014 statement contained information that Mr C was either paying an additional 
3.5% AMC or an additional 6% AMC, but that he hadnt been given other information to help 
him work out which he was paying.
Mr C is currently paying a little over 1% AMC in total on his pension plan. This is because 
the impact of the additional AMC on his pension plan has reduced over time as a higher and 
higher proportion of the units held are accumulation units, rather than capital units. But, from 
what Ive seen, ReAssure never clearly explained to him what the additional charge on accumulation units would be. They only ever stated that the additional charge might be 3.5% 
or 6%. 
I acknowledge that ReAssure consider that due to the age of the policy, the Terms and 
Conditions wouldve evolved over recent years, as would the Annual Statements, and that 
they would both now provide clearer and more explicit information. They said that we cant 
use hindsight as a means to determine the quality of the documentation which was issued as 
it was correct at the time in question. But Im not persuaded that this means it was 
reasonable for Mr C to have never been clearly told the level of the additional AMC he would 
be charged on capital units. 
As there was a lack of clarity over the level of the additional AMC that Mr C was being 
charged on his capital units, I dont consider that it was fair to have charged Mr C the higher 
additional rate of 6% each year. Therefore I intend to uphold the complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision
ReAssure reiterated that at the time of sale, theyd provided Mr C with Terms and Conditions 
which provided details of the charges applicable to his policy. And theyd sent him Annual 
Statements which they said also confirmed the charges. They acknowledged that both sets 
of documentation werent as explicit as they would be in 2022. But they felt they wouldve 
been compliant documents at the time of the sale.
ReAssure said that we cant use hindsight as a means of determining the quality of the 
documentation which was issued as it was correct at the time in question. Therefore, they 
maintained that the paperwork theyd provided to Mr C had always been compliant. And they 
felt it would be inappropriate to apply todays standards to correspondence issued over the 
years.
Mr C reiterated that no one in their right mind would agree to pay such high annual 
management charges. And if he had been aware that he was going to be paying such high 
charges, he wouldve stopped contributing long ago. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already acknowledged in my provisional decision ReAssures points about both the 
Terms and Conditions, and the Annual Statements, and how they wouldve evolved over 
recent years. I agree that we would now expect them to provide clearer and more explicit 
information than was historically the case. Ive also already noted their point that we cant 
use hindsight to determine the quality of the documentation issued, given they felt it was 
correct at the time in question. But, Ive not been able to find any details in the Terms and 
Conditions about the charges in Mr Cs policy. And therefore Im not persuaded that he was 
ever clearly told what level of additional AMC he would be charged on capital (initial) units. I 
acknowledge that the 2014 Annual Statement did clearly state that Mr C would either be 
paying 3.5% or 6% on capital (initial) units. But Im still of the view that there was a lack of 
clarity over the level of the additional AMC that Mr C was being charged on those units. 
Therefore Im still not persuaded that it was fair to have charged Mr C the higher additional 
rate of 6% each year. Therefore I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. And 
I uphold the complaint. Putting things right
I consider that it would be fair to have charged Mr C the lower additional rate of 3.5% each 
year. As such, I require ReAssure Limited to calculate what the value of Mr Cs plan 
wouldve been, at the date of my final decision, if the additional AMC on initial units had been 
3.5% each year, instead of 6% each year. ReAssure Limited must then reinstate the value of 
Mr Cs plan to that level.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must take the 
actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman