DRN-4202136
The complaint
Mr A complains about the outcome of a claim he made to Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank in respect of poor repairs to his wifes car.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr A paid £510 and £36.82 to a garage for repairs to his wifes car, 
using his Tesco credit card. Mr A says the garage installed a new clutch, gearbox and 
steering rod. 
Mr A contacted Tesco later that month asking for a full refund as the car had become 
undriveable, for which he held the garage liable. Tesco told Mr A that they couldnt raise a 
chargeback to reclaim the money as there were no grounds for them to do so. 
Tesco referred Mr As claim to be reviewed under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (Section 75). They subsequently told him that they couldnt now do this because Mr A 
had scrapped the car and there were no reports etc for them to consider.
Mr A wasnt happy with this and so referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, that there was no reasonable prospect of 
success for a chargeback to be raised and that, in respect of the Section 75 claim, there 
wasnt enough evidence to show that the garages repairs had caused the problems with the 
car that led to it being undriveable. He also noted that Mr A had scrapped the car before an 
independent inspection of it had been arranged. And our investigator said there were no 
grounds for Mr A to make a valid Section 75 claim as the necessary criteria for this hadnt 
been met.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the contract for repair was between him and the garage and they 
had failed to carry out the agreed repairs. Mr A also said that Tesco owed him a duty of care 
to tell him not to scrap the car and to arrange an independent inspection of it if that were 
necessary. And he said the garage meant to send him an invoice with warranty details 
included but failed to do so.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are typically two avenues here that Tesco as the provider of credit could have 
considered. 
Chargeback 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mr A does 
here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. The process involves the card 
issuer disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme operated 
by the companies which run the card networks, which in this case is Mastercard. 
I would normally expect a credit card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there was a 
reasonable prospect of this achieving a successful outcome. Tesco didnt attempt a 
chargeback in this instance and said to Mr A this was because there were no chargeback 
rights for a breach of contract for service issues. In their submissions to us though, Tesco 
said that Mr A had failed to give the merchant (the garage in this instance) a tender return 
explaining the faulty goods were available for collection. And that this would have either not 
been possible or greatly inconvenienced Mr A.
Tesco has given two separate reasons here so Im not particularly convinced they are sure 
why they didnt raise the chargeback. I note though that the garage had refuted that they had 
failed to repair the car in messages that were exchanged between themselves and Mr As 
daughter. So, even if Tesco had raised a chargeback, the garage likely would have 
defended this. And, bearing in mind Mr A has said that the garage didnt send an invoice 
confirming the works that were to be, and were, carried out and that the car was scrapped 
before an inspection could be carried out, I think it likely that Tesco wouldnt have taken the 
matter further. 
So, with all this in mind, and even though I have my doubts about how Tesco handled the 
chargeback, I dont think it was likely that a chargeback would have succeeded as, in my 
view, there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success. 
Section 75
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says that, in 
certain circumstances, if Mr A paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on his Tesco 
credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, Tesco 
can be held responsible. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in 
place. This normally means the person who owns the credit card account needs to have a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a company they have paid using 
their credit card. 
Our investigator said that the above criteria hadnt been met. Mr A disputes that and says 
that he was the party who contracted with the garage. If that was the case, then Mr A could 
have met the necessary criteria as he paid the garage with his credit card. 
There is a potential problem with Mr A meeting that criteria overall though. For Mr A to make 
a claim, the cash price of the service had to be more than £100. I note he paid the garage 
two separate payments, one of which was below £100. So, its possible that there were two 
separate contracts with the garage and that the one that cost £36.82 is outside of the 
financial limits for Section 75. Its possible though that both payments were treated as being 
part of the same, and only, contract. As I dont have a copy of the invoice for the works, its not possible for me to be sure of the 
nature of the contract, its cost and how Section 75 sits with this or who the contracting 
parties were for the repair to the car. 
However, even if the necessary criteria for a Section 75 claim were met, there isnt enough 
evidence in my view to say that the garage breached its contract and so make Tesco 
responsible. I have no compelling evidence that the garage failed to repair the car in line with 
the agreed contract and that the subsequent problems found with the car were because of 
that. 
I accept that its unlikely that Mr A would have scrapped the car if it was still driveable, so I 
think it more likely than not that there were issues with the car. But I have nothing to support 
that this happened because the garage failed to repair the car as agreed or botched those 
repairs as Mr A claims. The car can no longer be inspected, and I note that Mr A feels that 
Tesco should have made it clear that scrapping it before an inspection was carried out would 
compromise his claim. I dont find though that Tesco were obliged to do this. It was for Mr A 
to provide enough evidence to support his claim for a breach of contract and an inspection 
could have helped with this. So overall, I find that Tesco didnt handle Mr As Section 75 
claim unfairly. 
I do sympathise with Mr A for what happened and understand that he has been seriously ill 
recently. I hope that Mr A recovers from this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman