The complaint
Mr Ds complaint about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (Marks & Spencer) relates 
to the questions he was asked when he made an application for a current account over the 
telephone.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr D and Marks & Spencer, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In summary, Mr D is unhappy with the nature and extent of the questions he was asked by 
Marks and Spencer's advisor when he was seeking to open a current account. These he 
said, affected him emotionally and he thought many of the questions were irrelevant.
Marks & Spencer reviewed his complaint but did not consider that their line of questions was 
unreasonable, although they did accept that for technical reasons the call was excessively 
long and for which they apologised and paid Mr D £100 in compensation. 
Mr D was unhappy with Marks & Spencers final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that Marks & Spencer hadnt done anything wrong in so far as 
the account opening questioning of Mr D was concerned and although there had been poor 
service with regard to the duration of the call, the amount of compensation Marks & Spencer 
offered to Mr D was enough to put things right. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have considered 
both sides views in considering whether Marks & Spencer acted fairly and reasonably. Ive 
looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must make an 
independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done 
here. In this case, I dont think that Marks & Spencer has done anything wrong and Ill 
explain why.
DRN-1705926Looking at the evidence I can see that the call did take a very long time. Marks & Spencer 
acknowledge and accept that to be so, and have explained that they were experiencing 
technical IT issues and that was the cause. 
The evidence provided by Marks & Spencer also includes a script of the questions to be 
asked of potential new customers. Having a script, as is the case here, ensures that all 
customers are dealt with exactly the same, and so I can say that Mr D was not dealt with in 
any disadvantageous way compared to any other customer. 
I turn now to whether the questions he was asked were unfair or unreasonable. As Mr D 
acknowledges, banks have duties under the law to ensure that they know their customers 
and to guard against any criminal activity. I should say of course that there is no suggestion 
of that in this case, but nevertheless banks such as Marks & Spencer still have to ask certain 
questions and find out certain information to ensure they comply with the law. Questions 
regarding a customers income, expenditure and capital assets I find are entirely reasonable, 
since a bank will also want such information to allow them to cross sell their products.
Having considered the evidence provided there is nothing I have seen which I can say is 
unfair or unreasonable, and the service Mr D received, except for the duration of the call, 
was unremarkable. As I have mentioned, Marks & Spencer has accepted that it didnt get 
things right in relation to the call, and because of that it paid Mr D £100. Ive given this some 
further thought and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for 
trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive also considered, in the light of my findings, the impact 
the error is likely to have had on Mr D. It is only right that at such times a business should 
think about what it could do to put matters right, and awarding compensation is one way of 
doing that. But any award for the trouble and upset caused needs to be balanced and 
measured against the ups and downs we all face in daily life when dealing with other people, 
businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times. Here, 
Marks & Spencer has apologised for keeping Mr D on the telephone for so long, and paid 
him £100, and I think that is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr D will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst Marks & 
Spencer have indeed made errors, I cant say it has subsequently acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Marks & Spencer has already paid £100 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and 
reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require Marks & Spencer to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman