DRN-3573289
The complaint
Mr K is complaining HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded an amount he paid for some flights.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr K bought flights to travel in July 2020. He bought the flights through a 
travel agent  who I shall refer to as A. The flights cost around £2,400 which he paid through 
a bank transfer from his HSBC bank account. 
The flights were cancelled shortly before Mr K was due to travel, so Mr K asked for a refund. 
A said it would take around 15 weeks for the refund to be processed. Mr K contacted A 
again in October 2020 and November 2020 to chase the refund, but he didnt get a reply. A 
subsequently when into administration.
Mr K contacted HSBC on 28 November 2020 to dispute the transaction. HSBC asked Mr K 
to provide some information which he did. However, it wrote to him again around three 
weeks later to say it was unable to refund the money hed paid, as hed paid for it by bank 
transfer and hed authorised the transaction.
Mr K complained about the decision. He maintained HSBC should have refunded what he 
paid. But he also thought the delay in responding to him had prejudiced his ability to claim 
the refund from A while it was still solvent. HSBC offered Mr K £100 for the delays in 
reviewing the claim and not returning phone calls. But it maintained it wasnt required to 
refund the amount hed paid for the flights. Mr K then asked this service to step in.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said HSBC wasnt required to refund the 
amount Mr K paid. He said, given Mr K had paid by bank transfer, he didnt have chargeback 
rights. He also said Mr K had authorised the transaction and it wasnt a scam, so he didnt 
think there were grounds to dispute the transaction. Finally, he said A was already in the 
process of entering administration, so he didnt think any delays caused by HSBC had 
prejudiced Mr Ks position.
Mr K didnt accept the investigators opinion as he still thought HSBC taking three weeks to 
say it couldnt refund the amount hed paid had prejudiced his position. And he asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K in complaining that HSBC hasnt refunded an amount hes due following the 
cancellation of his flights. There are certain circumstances where a bank may be liable for a 
breach of contract by a supplier or where a supplier failed to provide a service. But these are 
generally where the consumer pays for the service on either a debit or credit card. But Mr K 
paid for the flights by bank transfer. So he doesnt have the same protection as he would 
have had if hed paid by card. He also voluntarily authorised the transaction, so I havent 
seen anything to show that it was unfair for HSBC to say it wasnt required to refund the 
amount he paid.
Mr K is unhappy it took HSBC three weeks to explain this to him. But I dont think this was an 
unreasonable timeframe. I recognise he says he explained to HSBC at the start he paid for 
the flights by a bank transfer. But I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to want to 
investigate the claim and see if it might be required to refund the amounts paid. And it 
investigated this in a reasonable timeframe.
But, even if that wasnt the case, Im not persuaded Mr K has lost out. Mr K has said he 
could have started court proceedings sooner. But it should be noted that he had been 
unsuccessfully trying to contact A for around a month before he contacted HSBC. Its also 
important to note that A had already started the administration process at least two weeks 
before he contacted HSBC. I dont think a three week delay in starting court proceedings will 
have had any impact on Mr Ks ability to recover the money directly from A. And I think hed 
still be in the same position now had HSBC told him from the start it was unable to refund 
the amount hed paid.
I naturally sympathise with Mr K that hes lost out due to no fault of his own. It wasnt his fault 
that he hasnt received his refund. But its not HSBCs fault either. 
HSBC has offered £100 in compensation for the delay in service, call wait times, and 
misinformation from its colleagues in regards to this matter. As I said above, Im not 
persuaded it has treated Mr K unfairly in this instance, so I dont think it needs to pay him 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think HSBC UK Bank Plcs compensation offer of £100 
is fair and I dont award anything further. It should pay this to him directly if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman