DRN-2307755
The complaint
Ms M has complained that UK Insurance Ltd (UKI) hasnt fairly settled her claim for cash 
stolen in a burglary. As the claim is against UKI, Ill refer to UKI rather than other parties 
through my decision.
What happened
Following a burglary, Ms M reported to UKI the theft of £3,000 in cash.
UKI have only paid £500 of the claim due to restrictions contained within their policy booklet 
that limit claims on cash losses to £500.
Ms M does not believe this is fair.  Ms M says the last policy booklet she received from UKI 
was in 2013, so was not aware of the limits in place.
Ms M says the policy booklet for 2018 was not printed until August 2018, the very month her 
burglary took place. She says the 2018 policy booklet to which UKI have continually referred 
her to in relation to the burglary would not have been available to her at the time she 
renewed.
UKI have said when a policy is due for renewal UKI send out a renewal invite 28 days 
beforehand. UKI say the pack would also include a leaflet confirming important information 
about changes to a policy, but a new policy booklet is not sent at each renewal.
UKI have said they understand Ms M may not have received a policy booklet since 2013 and 
she may feel that has contributed to her being unaware of the £500 limit for cash losses. UKI 
have indicated the loss of money limit on the policy has remained the same throughout the 
life of Ms Ms policy, which they have said can be found on page 3 of Ms M policy booklet 
from 2013.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that UKI has resolved Ms Ms 
complaint fairly.  Our investigator agrees with Ms M that UKI should be sending policy 
booklets with their renewal schedules but given the limit hadnt changed since the last time 
Ms M received a booklet in 2013, they didnt think UKI had done anything wrong in settling 
the claim.
Ms M didnt agree with our investigator and so the case has been referred to myself.  
Ms M made some further points when referring the case.  Ms M says she thinks UKI should 
have written to all its clients after making the decision to discontinue sending out annual 
policy booklets.  Ms M thinks its misleadingly that UKI continued to refer its clients to the 
annual schedule, rather than also sending out and referring to the policy booklet.  Ms M 
believes all this information should be sent out each year when a customer renews their 
insurance contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms M will have endured a high level of stress from the burglary.  She has not 
only lost cash which was set aside for a specific purpose but also some jewellery that had 
special meaning for her.  She would have hoped that her insurance that she has taken out 
would have covered her for her loss.
In deciding this case I must look at the information and knowledge Ms M had available to her 
when making her decision to renew her house insurance and the documents she had access 
to.  I also need to ascertain whether UKI have misled the customer in any way by selling 
insurance cover that was different to what was provided for when a customer claimed.
In reviewing the documents, I have not seen any new evidence that UKI have done anything 
wrong and my final decision is consistent with the investigators view.
I have looked at the documents Ms M received when renewing her policy and can see a 
renewal letter and a schedule which summarises some of the key aspects of the insurance 
cover.  The schedule for all aspects of cover (buildings, contents and personal possessions) 
refers to Please see section x of your policy booklet.  When referring to the policy booklet, 
there is clear guidance that UKI will only pay up to £500 for theft of money.  The renewal 
letter is clear and states Should you require an additional policy booklet please contact us.  
Its my opinion that Ms M had access to all the information required to make the decision on 
her insurance.
Many companies provide access to standard documents online to reduce costs and the 
environmental impact of printing.  What is key is that UKI provide the policy documents in 
some form.  I have not seen any evidence to suggest policy documents were requested Ms 
M and then not provided.  I conclude that the customer did have access to all the information 
they needed when renewing their contract.
In summary, it is my opinion the insurance company has paid the customer correctly for this 
this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman