DRN-4406882
The complaint
Mr M complains about a declined buyer dispute claim with PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA 
(PayPal).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The third party that the package was being returned to have confirmed in an online 
chat conversation on 15 June 2023 that it was received, and its specialist refund 
team were responsible for the refund.
PayPal have said that if the third-party had received the package, it wouldve 
refunded Mr M, but the communication Mr M had with the business doesnt support 
this. The online chat Mr M had with an advisor on 15 June 2023 clearly says there 
was a separate refund team considering Mr Ms refund, but they decided not to 
refund him, as he hadnt been using his account in line with its policy. So, its clear 
the package was received but they had decided not to give Mr M his money back.
The third party went on to direct Mr M back to PayPal to apply for a refund, which he 
has done. 
From my own research into returns to this business, Im satisfied that the receipt 
does evidence its been delivered to the correct address. 
PayPal have indicated that another address was provided to Mr M that he shouldve 
used. But having seen the returns process Mr M used, this was automated by a QR 
barcode. So, Mr M didnt input the address in manually and the return address was 
prepopulated by the company. 
The receipts provided by Mr M to evidence the three returns he made that day were 
all sent to the same place and clearly display the same address. Its clear from the 
online chat conversation that Mr M had with the third-party company advisor that the 
other two parcels were received and refunded. 
PayPal have declined this claim on the basis that the tracking information doesnt 
show the parcel was returned. Ive explained above why Im satisfied this is not 
correct. 
On balance and taking everything into consideration in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied Mr M has done enough to evidence he returned the package 
back to the third-party company, it was received and hasnt been refunded.  
Putting things right
PayPal should pay Mr M the value of the package that he raised the dispute on. This amount 
is £850.95.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA 
to settle Mr Ms claim inline with my direction above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman