DRN-2080506
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms M. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. 
Ms M was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint. This is because I think its likely she couldnt have 
benefited from the main aspects of the PPI policy. This is because its likely she was working 
for fewer than 16 hours a week. 
AXA has said that Ms M has been inconsistent in what shes said about whether she was a 
part-time worker. It says she ticked employed in its PPI questionnaire, but didnt tick 
working fewer than 16 hours. But when she filled in the ombudsman service form later, she 
ticked only working fewer than 16 hours. So AXA isnt convinced that Ms M was working 
fewer than 16 hours. 
I dont think Ms M actually has definitely been inconsistent. When she ticked employed, it 
was still true, because that is what she was even if her employment was for under 16 hours 
a week. And when she filled in our form, she also added the comment, I was working part-
time when the policy was sold so if the PPI didn't cover me I should be entitled to a full 
refund.
So I think its likely that Ms M has given a consistent account, and I think that it is likely that 
she wouldnt have been able to benefit much from the policy. I dont think AXA made this 
clear to her when it sold her the policy.
 
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Ms M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms M would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms M owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms M would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until the point when Ms M 
wouldve owed something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms M would have owed each month without PPI  Ms M 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms M 
wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.AXA should tell Ms M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman