DRN-2241528
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd turned down a claim he made on his mobile
phone insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr R took out mobile phone insurance with Bastion. The following month he
made a claim for the repair to a broken screen on his phone. Bastion said he hadnt
validated his phone in line with the terms of his policy and turned down the claim. Mr R said
the requirement to do so wasnt made clear to him when he took out the policy and so it
wasnt fair of Bastion to rely on that to turn down the claim.
Our investigator noted in Bastions response to the claim it said the reason for turning this
down was Mr R hadnt provided photographic evidence showing the IMEI number (the
phones unique identifier) for his device. But she didnt feel the information which Bastion
was responsible for producing would have made that requirement clear to him.
And she didnt think that any of the other information he might have seen as part of the sales
process would have done so either. In particular Bastion had accepted Mr R was sent a
welcome email on an old template which didnt include details of the validation requirements.
So she thought Bastion should reconsider the claim and make a new decision taking into
account the remaining policy terms.
Bastion didnt agree. It said this had been a non advised sale and Mr R had been made
aware of the validation requirements at numerous points during the process. It explained
why these were important. And it thought the view our investigator had reached was
inconsistent with what wed said on other complaints.
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Bastion has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the policy terms. I can see these include conditions which say within
seven days of cover starting the policyholder must provide a number of things. For a mobile
phone that includes a photograph of Your IMEI number clearly displayed on Your mobile
phone. The terms go on to explain how the IMEI number can be obtained and say that if a
policyholder fails to validate prior to raising a claim the claim will be denied.
Bastion has explained that it needs this information so in the event of a subsequent claim it
can be satisfied the phone being claimed for is the same one that was insured under the
policy. And I can see in their response to Mr Rs claim Bastion said he hadnt provided a
photograph showing the IMEI number of his phone and so hadnt met the validation
requirements of his policy.
I dont think its in dispute Mr R didnt do that. So he hasnt done what the policy requires.
But that isnt the only issue here. I also need to think about whether its fair of Bastion to rely
on that term in this case. And the relevant rules say a customer must be provided with
appropriate information about a policy so they can make an informed decision about whether
to take it out. That should include information about the significant benefits, exclusions and
limitations of the policy. The rules say that where a broker is involved they would be
responsible for providing that information  but the insurer (Bastion in this case) is
responsible for producing it.
I think the requirement to provide an IMEI number is a significant feature of the policy as
Mr Rs phone wouldnt be covered unless he provided that. And if Bastion didnt make that
clear in the information it was responsible for (and that wasnt made clear anywhere else) I
dont think it would be fair of it to rely on this condition not being met to turn down Mr Rs
claim.
Bastion has argued it did make that clear but I dont agree. I can see Mr R was able to
access Bastions insurance product information document as part of the sales process. But
Ive reviewed that document and it doesnt make any reference to the requirement to provide
an IMEI number. I accept this is referenced in the policy terms but it only features on page
eight (of a 12 page document). I dont think that did enough on its own to draw this important
requirement to Mr Rs attention.
So I agree with our investigator that the requirement to provide an IMEI number wasnt made
clear to Mr R in the information Bastion produced. Ive thought about whether this would
have been clear to Mr R from any of the other information he was provided with. I dont think
it would. Mr R should have been sent a welcome email by his broker which Bastion says
would have drawn his attention to this. However, its accepted that because of a system
glitch the email he was sent didnt contain this information. And while it appears Mr R would
have seen information during the sales process which referenced the gadget validation
process that didnt explain what was required.
But looking through what Bastion has said I dont think thats the only reason why it turned
down the claim he made. His policy says that for cover to be valid a policyholder also needs
to provide photographic evidence that Your Gadgets are in a good and operational state.
And although Bastion talked about the IMEI number in isolation when turning down Mr Rs
claim in a subsequent response it referenced in more general terms the validation
requirements and the need to provide photographs showing your gadget is in a good and
operational state.
In its submissions to us Bastion said Mr R hadnt provided the IMEI number but also said he
didnt validate his gadget to prove it was undamaged prior to a successful claim being made.
It went on to explain issues that can arise, in general terms, where claims are made for
phones which were already damaged prior to the policy being taken out. So I think its
reasonable to say Bastions reasons for declining the claim arent solely because Mr R
hadnt provided his IMEI number but because he hadnt met the more general validation
requirements including the need for evidence of the condition of his phone.
Ive thought about whether those requirements were made clear to him by Bastion. And I can
see the product information document says within 7 days of your policy starting you must
provide us with photographic evidence that your gadget is in a good and operational state.
On that basis I think Bastion has provided appropriate information about this requirement.
Mr R hasnt supplied this information. And I think it is fair of Bastion to turn down the claim
because he didnt. Not providing that information means Bastion doesnt have evidence to
show the state of the phone at the point the policy was taken out. That means its not been
able to establish what the pre accident condition of the phone was.So while I think it was wrong of it to initially turn the claim down because Mr R hadnt
provided his IMEI number (as that requirement wasnt made clear to him) I think it was
entitled to do so because he hadnt provided photographs showing the condition of the
phone  as the documentation Bastion was responsible for explained he needed to do that.
If Mr R has concerns about whether the seller provided him with that information as part of
the sales process thats something hed need to raise as a separate complaint against the
seller. It isnt something that Bastion, as the insurer, is responsible for.
But while I think Bastion was entitled to turn down the claim Mr R made I understand hes
never had any devices registered on this policy. And under the terms of the policy until he
did so he could never have made a successful claim. So he was effectively paying for cover
that would never be of benefit to him  meaning there was no risk to Bastion.
I think thats supported by the policy terms themselves which say if proof of ownership
(which includes the validation information) isnt provided within seven days of the start date
this may result in the cancellation of the policy and the return of the premium to You.
Taking that into account I dont think its fair for Bastion to retain the premiums Mr R has paid
for a period when there was no device registered against the policy. So it will need to return
the premiums taken while that was the case. If the policy is still in force and Mr R doesnt
register a device against it then in line with the policy terms Bastion can cancel the policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R didnt provide any comments. Bastion asked for a meeting to discuss the case. Our 
investigator said it wouldnt be fair to both sides for a discussion of that nature to take place 
after a provisional decision had been issued. She invited Bastion to provide any comments it 
wanted me to consider to the deadline set out in the provisional decision. Bastion didnt 
provide any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided any further comments for me to consider I dont have any 
reason to change the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd will need to refund 
the premiums Mr R paid for the period when there was no device registered against the 
policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman