DRN-1511273
The complaint
Mr J, a director of Company W, feels that TSB Bank Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to 
temporary loan it made to Company W.
What happened
Mr J says that TSB said it would take back the temporary loan but didnt do so until much 
later causing Company Ws account to go into unauthorised borrowing and thus incurred 
charges unfairly.
TSB says it hasnt made a mistake and gave Mr J plenty of notice of when the temporary 
loan would be retrieved. So Mr J complained on behalf of Company W.
TSB looked into the matter, but it still felt it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr J felt this wasnt 
fair. So he complained here. Our investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr J doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In September 2019 TSB wrote to Mr J regarding Company Ws account in relation to a 
previous complaint. In that letter it told Mr J that it was making a temporary loan to him to 
assist his business in lieu of a payment to be received by Company W from another party 
that Mr J has business dealings with. This letter says TSB notes that the payment from the 
other party is showing on Company Ws account so it will begin the process to retrieve the 
temporary loan. In this letter it refers to a phone conversation TSB had with Mr J within 
which it says it explained the situation to Mr J also.
On 06 November 2019 TSB wrote to Mr J again explaining that it had made the temporary 
loan but hadnt retrieved it from his account because there had been insufficient funds to do 
so. It then says it will debit the value of the temporary loan on 20 November whether there is 
sufficient funds in the account or not. And it says there may be charges and interest to apply 
if there isnt sufficient credit in the account to cover the loan amount.
On 20 November the statements show Mr J hadnt put sufficient funds into the account to 
cover the temporary loan. TSB retrieve the loan from the account on 21 November.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint for the following reasons.
TSB wasnt under any obligation to lend its money to Mr J. It did so because it made a 
decision to do so based on the circumstances at the time and to help Company Ws cash 
flow. Mr J spent against TSBs temporary loan and the credit from the other party as soon as 
it was in the account. 
The temporary loan was never Company Ws money. It was always TSBs money and TSB 
made clear that it was a loan and it was to be retrieved.
TSB told Mr J in its November letter that the loan was to be retrieved and when it was to be 
retrieved. Im satisfied it hasnt made a mistake in addressing or sending the letter. Mr J says 
he never got this letter. Im satisfied TSB sent it and if he didnt receive it that isnt TSBs 
fault. And whether or not he got this particular letter he knew TSB had loaned the money and 
was due to retrieve it. So I dont think Mr Js argument here makes a difference to my 
position.
Bearing mind TSB hasnt made a mistake in taking its money back or giving notice of doing 
so I think it hasnt treated Company W unfairly by applying charges and interest to the 
account in relation to the unauthorised borrowing. After all account holders are required to 
monitor their accounts appropriately.
In short, Ive considered everything that Mr J has said, and I appreciate how Mr J feels about 
the whole situation. However, I dont think what TSB has done with has meant that Company 
W has been treated unfairly. So this complaint doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman