DRN-3458699
The complaint
Ms L complains about how The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile dealt with a payment 
made in error.
What happened
Ms L says she transferred £15 from her Smile savings account to pay her credit card bill. 
She accepts that was a mistake as it didnt have a reference number or credit card number. 
Ms L says Smile was unable to help her recover the money and told her it was her fault. She 
says in summary Smile didnt deal appropriately with what happened and would like 
compensation for what took place.
Smile says Ms L paid the £15 without the credit card reference from her savings account. It 
says it tried to help Ms L by providing her with a statement and correctly explained that it 
couldnt raise a trace as the amount was below the relevant threshold. Smile says the money 
was returned to Ms L and doesnt accept it made a mistake.
Ms L brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Ms L made and authorised the payment and that the amount was below the 
threshold for making a return request in line with the Faster Payment Query Process. The 
investigator accepted Smile had told Ms L the threshold was £15 or under when in fact it was 
£25 but didnt think that made any difference.
Ms L doesnt accept that view and says she is a longstanding Smile customer and there has 
been a lack of transparency about what took place. She says she was given incorrect 
information about the threshold amount and if given the correct information then the outcome 
could have been different.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms L will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Ms L made the payment to her credit card company without a reference. I 
appreciate that a mistake was made but that is not something I can fairly hold Smile 
responsible for. I also appreciate that Ms L spent some time dealing with what happened but 
again I cant fairly hold Smile responsible for that as I think it was inevitable that time would 
be taken following the original mistake.
I appreciate Smile gave Ms L incorrect information about the threshold for sending a Faster 
Payment Query form to the credit company she sent the money to. But I dont think the 
outcome was affected as it clear that the amount was below the threshold amounts in any 
event. I can see that the money was returned which I am satisfied is what Smile told Ms L 
was likely to happen during the first call.
I also appreciate Ms L says she is a long-standing customer of Smile, but Im satisfied that it 
was up to Smile when considering the threshold to decide what if anything it could do. And I 
have made clear that I think it try and help Ms L.
Overall, Im satisfied that Smile didnt act unfairly. I dont think the threshold mistake had any 
impact and that doesnt justify compensation. I have listened to the calls between the parties 
and am satisfied Smile explained what could be done and that it tried to help Ms L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman