DRN-3164847
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain delays in Hodge Life Assurance Company Limited processing their 
application to port their mortgage and borrow an additional sum meant they had to move 
their mortgage elsewhere and pay Hodge an early repayment charge. 
  
What happened
In 2019 Mr J and Mrs J took out an interest only lifetime mortgage of around £45,000. They 
had an initial fixed interest rate product for a period of five years. The mortgage allowed Mr J 
and Mrs J to port their mortgage. But if they redeemed it within the five-year period of the 
fixed rate product, they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC).
In early August 2020 Mr J and Mrs J asked Hodge Life Assurance Company Limited 
(Hodge) if they could port their mortgage and borrow an additional amount. They wanted to 
downsize and buy a holiday home. They planned to use the funds from the sale of their 
existing property to buy the holiday home and secure the mortgage on their main residence. 
Hodge issued a decision in principle (DIP) in the middle of August and Mr J and Mrs J 
submitted a formal application in early September. Hodge required additional financial 
information to support the application. There was a delay in information about, amongst 
other things, Mrs Js pension being provided. And, since they were worried about losing their 
purchase of the holiday home, Mr J and Mrs J decided to redeem their mortgage in 
November and borrow from another lender. As a result, they were obliged to pay the ERC of 
around £1,800.
Mr J and Mrs J thought Hodge should refund the ERC since theyd provided poor service 
and caused delay, and theyd felt theyd had no alternative but to go to another lender. 
Hodge didnt agree. They said theyd charged the ERC correctly, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage and didnt uphold the complaint. So, Mr J and Mrs J brought their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Hodge had done anything wrong. 
Since Mr J and Mrs J didnt accept his view, Ive reviewed their complaint afresh to come to 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer made to Mr J and Mrs J in 2019 said they could transfer the mortgage  
or, more accurately, the fixed interest rate product - to another property if, broadly, the lender 
was satisfied they met the lending criteria at the time. But an ERC was payable if the 
mortgage was paid back within the five-year period of the interest rate product. I think these 
terms were clear, fair and not misleading as Id expect them to be.
Mr J and Mrs Js application to Hodge in 2020 was not only to transfer their existing 
mortgage, but also take out additional borrowing to fund their purchases and repay some 
unsecured borrowing. Mr J and Mrs J planned to make contractual monthly interest 
payments. So it was reasonable, and necessary under the relevant mortgage rules, for 
Hodge to check the borrowing was affordable for them.
Hodge set out early on the information they required to assess Mr J and Mrs Js application. 
And, as Mr J and Mrs Js broker provided information over the next few weeks, they made 
clear what information was missing. Ive considered the timeline and Hodges records. And 
Im satisfied the time they took to assess the application was reasonable overall. The delay 
in providing one piece of outstanding information  details relating to Mrs Js pension  was 
due to the pension provider, not Hodge.
I understand Mr J and Mrs J think the information Hodge were asking for about Mrs Js 
pension represented only a small amount of income and should not have affected the 
outcome of their application. But Hodge had to satisfy themselves that the borrowing was 
going to be affordable for Mr J and Mrs J not only at the time of their application, but also 
into the future taking into account any reductions in income that might happen. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Hodge to clarify that issue. And I note that other information about 
savings, relevant to overall affordability, was also outstanding towards the end of October.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Hodge were unreasonable in asking for the 
outstanding information to satisfy themselves the borrowing was affordable and met their 
lending criteria.
Mr J and Mrs J say they were compelled to borrow from another lender, so they didnt lose 
the purchase of their holiday home. I understand that would have been disappointing for    
Mr J and Mrs J, although I havent seen any evidence of any urgency in relation to 
completing the purchase. But, even if Mr J and Mrs J had a deadline to comply with, they 
had a choice about whether to redeem their mortgage with Hodge. They knew theyd have to 
pay the ERC if they paid the mortgage back within the five-year period of their fixed interest 
rate product. And they decided to go ahead on that basis.
The ERC was properly charged under the terms of their mortgage. And Im not persuaded 
there are any grounds to ask Hodge to repay the ERC for reasons of fairness, since I dont 
think Hodge did anything wrong in relation to the mortgage application. Bearing everything in 
mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mr J and Mrs J, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Js complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to accept or reject my 
decision before 28 February 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman