DRN-3336355
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs handling and settlement of a 
subsidence claim under his home insurance policy.
I will refer to RSA throughout including when referring to representatives who have acted on 
Its behalf in handling Mr Bs claim.
What happened
Mr B made a claim when he noticed cracks and damp in his property extension. RSA 
appointed experts to inspect and review the damage. Eventually after some lengthy delays 
RSA wrote to Mr B to decline his claim. It said regarding the subsidence claim that the 
foundations werent sufficient and as this was excluded under the policy no claim would be 
met. In relation to the damp problem it suggested Mr B make a separate claim under the 
accidental damage extension. RSA accepted that there had been delays and slow service 
for this. It offered Mr B £200 as compensation. Unhappy with this Mr B made a complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She pointed out that the building regulations RSA 
have used to decline the claim dont specify a required foundation depth. She said the 
damaged extension had stood the test of time as it was added before Mr B owned the 
property and had been built in the 1980s and no damage had shown until 2020. Our 
investigator said the cause of the damp issues are still unknown. She accepted Mr Bs point 
that this hadnt been investigated fully and should be reconsidered along with the 
subsidence claim. She said that the claim had been declined unfairly and should be 
reconsidered. Our investigator said due to this, the delays involved, and the amount of time 
Mr B had spent dealing with the issues RSA should increase the compensation payment to 
£500.
RSA didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loss adjusters on behalf of RSA said, Unfortunately the foundations to the single storey 
extension are not of sufficient depth to cope with the site conditions.
It continued The foundations of the extension do not comply with the requirements of the 
Building Regulations:
A1. (1) The building shall be so constructed that the combined dead, imposed and wind 
loads are sustained and transmitted to the ground
(a) Safely, and
(b) Without causing such deflection or deformation of any part of the building, or such 
movement of the ground, as will impair the stability of any part of another building.
The regulations say E1. There should not be:
(a) Made ground or wide variation in type of subsoil within the loaded area, or
(b) Weaker type of soil at such a depth below the soil on which the foundation rests as could 
impair the stability of the structure.
The details gathered by RSA regarding Mr Bs property said the foundation are founded at a 
depth of 730mm below ground level, bearing onto 'Made Ground' RSA said the foundations 
didnt comply with the regulations and would need to go much deeper and said The 
minimum foundation depth for a traditional foundation should have been at least 2.0m; 
however, this would be required to be taken to the depth of competent ground which could 
be much deeper.
RSA said the damage had been gradual and progressive.under the load of the building.
Despite at that point not having dealt with the damp claim RSA said the nearby drainage 
could be affected by the load from the foundation and possibly crack. It concluded The 
load of the building has caused defects to the drainage, which will accelerate the 
movement. It doesnt appear from this that RSA considered the drains could be causing or 
in any way linked to the damage.
RSA ended by saying The insurance policy excludes damage caused by defective 
design/faulty workmanship and hence the policy would not operate in this instance.
RSA accepted in other details of a report that the damage was subsidence and suggested 
this was caused by clay shrinkage or escape of water. And there was a request for Mr B 
to remove a tree that was close by.
Theres also been some debate about what type of foundations the property has. Whether it 
is strip foundations or a raft foundation. Mr B has reasonably asked the question that as part 
of the investigation RSA should have cleared this up. But RSA said It thinks theres strip 
foundations as its too deep to be raft but either way it isnt deep enough, so it doesnt 
matter.
Regarding the damp issues RSA said the drainage was suffering wear and tear and the 
soakaway had failed as it had reached the end of its finite lifetime. It said this wasnt linked to 
the dampness as it wasnt in the same location.
Mr B said that all the properties in the street were on raft foundations, some had long 
standing extensions, and some were more recent, but they had been through building 
control and been approved. He was able to estimate that the extension at his property had 
been built around 1988. And the wider point Mr B made was that hed made sure he took out 
a policy with upgraded cover to include subsidence. He felt why would you have a policy that 
doesnt then operate when you need it to, for a claim that appears to fall under the 
subsidence heading which is included in the policy. He wondered if the policy was ever 
suitable for this type of house. He didnt feel RSA had fully investigated the claims.
Mr B noted there was no drainage report carried out. He said there was a distinct possibility 
based on the evidence of his own experts that there was a leaking inspection chamber on 
his property, and RSA hadnt investigated this. Also, when having work done it was pointed 
out to Mr B by contractors not linked to the claim and not aware of what had gone before that 
the structure had sunk most in the far corner of the utility room. This was where the 
downpipes were for the guttering. Mr B said at this point the downpipe and soakaway had 
eventually been replaced under his second separate claim for accidental damage.I think Mr B made valid and reasonable points. I didnt see any significant mention of 
monitoring at the property. Its clear that there were issues with the drains not functioning 
properly and potentially with Mr Bs tree that he was asked to remove originally. There 
doesnt appear to be any consideration of these points when RSA claimed the damage was 
always going to occur due to defective foundations.
There isnt any stipulation about the depth of foundations as RSA has referred to with the 
building regulations and theres nothing to suggest the extension was outside the 
requirements of the building control requirements at the time it was constructed. It is hard to 
accept that a structure that has been in place for such a long period of time and has stood 
the test of time can now be declined. Even though RSA say this was always going to happen 
there should be a full investigation and claim consideration Mr B has requested.
Mr B said the problems with damp were never fully investigated either, but I suspect the later 
accidental damage claim picked up all of these issues. If not, then I think as part of the 
further investigation RSA should also investigate the damp issue too.
I think it was unfair and unreasonable for RSA to decline the claim without the full 
investigation of the subsidence along with the damp issue. It should reconsider and further 
investigate this claim in line with the rest of the policy terms and conditions.
RSA accepted that the service wasnt as Mr B should have been able to expect. It offered 
£200 as compensation for his distress and inconvenience. There were unacceptable delays, 
the communication was lacking, and RSA werent proactive in trying to resolve the claim. 
Mr B had to take a huge amount of time to deal with the claim and theres clearly been an 
impact on him having to deal with these issues. I think £500 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience is a reasonable outcome.
Putting things right
Reconsider and reinvestigate the subsidence and damp claim issues subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
Pay £500 for Mr Bs distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Reconsider and reinvestigate the subsidence and damp claim issues subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
Pay £500 for Mr Bs distress and inconvenience.
Royal & Sun Alliance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman