DRN-3594035
The complaint
Mrs T complains about advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in 
2017 about her pension. Following Portals advice, Mrs T transferred out of her employers 
defined benefit (DB) Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP).
Portals initial advice at the time was that Mrs T should not transfer out of her OPS. 
However, she opted to go against this advice on what Portal says was an insistent client 
basis. 
Mrs T now says she didnt fully understand the process and shes been left worse off as a 
result of what Portal advised her to do.
What happened
In March 2017 Mrs T went to portal for advice about her OPS which shed been a member of 
for around 12 years. Based on what Mrs T said, Portal produced a fact find summarising 
her situation of that time. Mrs T made it clear she was starting a new chapter in her life and 
wanted to access tax-free cash from her pension to set up in a new home for herself and her 
children. She also said she wanted another portion of her pension to be accessed so she 
could pay down her debts.
A summary of her circumstances was listed in the fact-find as follows:
Mrs T was 57, married with young-adult children. She and her husband, Mr T, lived in 
a tied rented property connected with her job, costing around £217 a month. Mrs T 
said she and Mr T were about to separate at the time and she was intending to move 
out to a different property.
Mrs T worked in the public sector and earned around £15,000 (gross) a year. She 
said she had three outstanding unsecured loans totaling £12,500, which were being 
paid monthly at £50 per month. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mrs Ts OPS was obtained and found 
to be £61,528. Her aspiration was to continue working until around the age of 63. Her 
state pension age was 66.
Mrs T was said to have a single life cover policy in place worth £30,000 (a monthly 
premium of £13). Its not clear when this ended.
Portal assessed that Mrs T had no further assets or liabilities other than those 
outlined above and overall, her incomings provided her with little or no disposable 
income each month.
Portal then produced a suitability report, in April 2017, which recommended that Mrs T 
shouldnt transfer out of her OPS. I will discuss this in more detail later, but in the main, the 
report pointed out that shed be giving up certain guaranteed benefits if she left the OPS. 
Portal also said that its analysis showed that in a private pension  as opposed to her OPS  
her investments would need to grow very substantially in the future even to match the 
financial value of her existing scheme. Accordingly, Portal said it strongly recommended that 
she shouldnt transfer out.
Nevertheless, Mrs T indicated shed still like to go ahead and transfer out anyway and Portal 
indicated it could help her with this if she insisted. It told Mrs T this meant it would classify 
her as an insistent client and in these circumstances it recommended a SIPP would be 
suitable for her. Portal said this would allow her the access to the pension in the way shed 
asked for. So, Portal facilitated the transfer, noting that Mrs T was an insistent client, a term 
used in the industry to describe when a client wants to go against a financial advisers 
recommendation. Portal said this would allow access to the two lump sums Mrs T had said 
she wanted. Mrs T transferred and then drew out two cash lump sums  one tax-free and 
one where some tax had to be paid - and she invested the remainder in funds within the 
SIPP, commensurate with her attitude to risk (ATR), which Portal classed as adventurous. 
Mrs T is represented in bringing her complaint. Her representative said Portal gave 
unsuitable advice because Mrs T was not experienced in these types of financial matters 
and didnt understand the process, or what an insistent client even was. It said the transfer 
out shouldnt have gone ahead because it left Mrs T worse off and her ATR and capacity for 
loss were both low. Her representative said she should be returned to the position she would 
have been in had the transfer out never gone ahead in the first place.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ts complaint. They observed that Mrs T had told 
Portal she wanted to transfer out, despite being initially advised not to. The investigator 
thought Portal had complied with the guidance on insistent clients and that we therefore 
shouldnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Mrs T doesnt agree with this. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, was asked to 
make an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 saying that, 
although Portal hadnt done everything right, I still thought the outcome would have been the 
same. I said that because of the financial situation Mrs T was in, she would have most likely 
have always wanted to transfer out of her pension to access some cash. I therefore signalled 
my intention to not uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint. 
What was Portal required to do? 
The central issue in this case is broadly whether Portal acted in the best interests of Mrs T. 
There was limited guidance available specifically about insistent clients at the time of this 
advice, but nonetheless, the regulator placed important general obligations on firms like 
Portal. These included the overarching principles such as: Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 
- skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care. 
A firms specific responsibilities depend, to a certain extent, on the type of service its giving 
the client. The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets out specific obligations when 
giving advice. These include, but are not limited to, making it clear that firms are required to 
take reasonable steps to ensure any personal recommendations are suitable for their client. 
That means theyre typically required to find out about clients knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type of investment); their financial situation and their investment 
objectives. 
As well as this, there are other requirements when advising a client about the suitability of 
transferring out of a defined benefit OPS (these are set out in more detail in COBS 19.1.6G). 
The regulator says that when advising clients about transferring out of a defined benefit 
OPS, the firm should start from the position of assuming it wont be suitable unless it can 
clearly demonstrate whether its in their best interests overall. 
Also, the regulator has made it clear that a firm shouldnt be giving advice unless its able to 
comment on the suitability of the underlying investments. Given the approaches and 
expectations set by the regulator, its important that the firm understands the level of service 
a client is seeking and that its clear about whether thats the kind of service it can offer. If it 
cant, the firm is within its rights to say that it cant help and walk away.
However, I should also point out that there is no rule to prevent advisers transacting 
business against their advice, if the client insists. So, I need to think here about whether 
enough was done by Portal to try and find alternative ways of meeting Mrs Ts objectives of 
releasing cash she needed  e.g. whether she might in fact have other assets that would be 
more suitable to access rather than her pension. I have also considered whether the 
insistent client process in this case was merely, in the words of the regulator, a papering 
exercise.
I have also taken account that the regulator has previously expressed concerns and 
expectations about how businesses should execute insistent client business in connection 
with defined benefit transfers  it did this in July 2014 when it published TR14/12 Enhanced 
transfer value pension transfers and in February 2016 when it published a guidance note on 
insistent clients. In the 2016 guidance note, for example, the following concerns were listed 
of these types of cases:
there was often an inadequate assessment of the other options that could meet the 
clients objectives
there seemed to be excessive numbers of insistent clients resulting from advice 
which wasnt sufficiently clear
the risks of the clients preferred course of action werent always clearly explained
some examples were found to be a 'papering exercise', for example, the adviser had 
processed the case on an insistent client basis but this didnt really reflect what had 
happened in practice
the client was advised not to transfer out of the DB scheme (although the client 
insisted) but then the adviser recommended a product that was not suitable 
I have considered all these things carefully in determining whether I think Portal did anything 
wrong. And Portal ought to have taken these things into account.
Financial comparisons 
Theres no real dispute in this case that, in terms of the financial comparisons Portal set out 
in its suitability report, that Mrs Ts OPS benefits were very unlikely to be bettered by 
transferring. By this I mean that Portal told Mrs T that it strongly recommended she ought to 
consider the impact of the penalties and / or benefits that applied to her pension and the 
potential risks of transferring it. And after looking into what Mrs T was wanting to achieve  she specifically said she needed 
cash  and then Portal said, 
Our Recommendation - We have already recommended that you do not access 
your [OPS] early by taking more than your tax free cash entitlement and instead 
leave your pension funds where they are because of the benefits you will be giving 
up.
Portals suitability report explained and substantiated this recommendation, showing as it 
did, the high growth rates Mrs Ts funds would need to achieve outside her current scheme, 
in order to match the financial benefits she could have by remaining inside. It said the critical 
yield required to match the OPS benefits available at the normal retirement age of 66, was 
9.3% per year  this involved taking a tax-free lump sum of £19,117 and a reduced pension 
of £2,868. Portal also quoted a different scenario of taking a much smaller lump sum at age 
66, with an annual pension of £4,607  the critical yield for this was 11.7%.
Looking at these critical yield figures, I think they clearly demonstrated that Mrs T was very 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by her OPS at 
retirement and it was on this basis that Portal initially recommended that she should not 
transfer out. I note Portal also set out some other data, again showing the funds wouldnt 
grow by enough in a SIPP to match her current scheme and also that they could be depleted 
in retirement. So, overall I believe Portal made it clear enough that there was a long-term 
financial downside to transferring out of her OPS to a SIPP, and also that she would lose 
certain guarantees and benefits. 
However, as Ive said, theres no real dispute here that transferring out was an option that 
would effectively mean shed be worse off in the longer term  so the next question is 
whether the rules, guidance and expectations Ive mentioned above were followed by Portal 
when it went on to treat her as an insistent client. 
Did Portal do enough to advise Mrs T?
Whilst I think Portal was clear in presenting the financial comparisons, I think that it should 
have done more both to stress the dangers of transferring out of the OPS, and looking for 
other options Mrs T might potentially have, particularly as her desire to have money now did 
seem very important to her. 
In this sense, Portal appears to have paid only lip service to Mrs T by recommending that 
she should not transfer out of her OPS. It seems to me that Portal, having pointed out some 
of the disadvantages, then very quickly promoted the concept of her becoming an insistent 
client instead. This then enabled the transfer out to commence after all. 
In my view, this caused the initial recommendation to be watered down considerably. Having 
initially said she shouldnt transfer out I would have expected Portal to carefully reiterate the 
advantages and disadvantages in a more comprehensive and balanced way. But I dont 
think Portal did this and in the very same suitability report, directly below the first 
recommendation, it made another recommendation saying:
Our recommendation - Bearing in mind your current situation and stated 
objectives we propose that as an insistent client you transfer to a flexi-access 
income drawdown pension. With this option you could access the tax-free cash 
and taxable lump sum you need and reinvest the remaining fund, with a number of 
options for taking an income in the future.
Ive given careful thought to how all this was portrayed to Mrs T. And whilst I agree Portal 
made it clear she was losing out financially in the longer term by transferring and accessing 
her pension early, it failed to expansively set out whether there might be other options for 
her. I also note that Portal was effectively advising her to leave a scheme she was still actively in, and receiving employer contributions towards. So, I think Portal got a number of 
things wrong.
Firstly, I think its fair to point out that Mrs T didnt appear to fully understand the complexities 
of pensions and what she could and couldnt do. The evidence Ive seen, and listened to, 
tends to show she relied very heavily on what she was being told. So I think being 
immediately presented with another option, directly after the first, would have influenced her. 
I think Portal should have gone back to her, explained the risks in detail and given her some 
space to think again.
Secondly, the rules of her current scheme  the OPS  were not clearly laid out for Mrs T. It 
seems there could have been a possibility of accessing some of her OPS funds early as a 
small lump-sum without transferring out. In all probability though, the rules around doing this 
were quite restrictive and probably not suited to Mrs Ts situation (and her requirement for 
cash now). But they werent ever presented to her and so I think this was a shortcoming on 
Portals part.
Thirdly, I also think more could and should have been done to advise her around the 
outstanding debts she had. Mrs T seemed to be paying these off at only £50 a month, which 
means they would have taken years to pay down. This was a major reason for her wanting 
to access, what to her, would have been a very significant cash lump-sum; so it was 
important to how she might have acted. Still, theres no evidence that re-structuring the 
debts or even part-paying them down, rather than transferring her pension, was considered. 
Finally, I dont think the uncertain financial future all this might have created for Mrs T in 
retirement was raised enough. She needed to be told there was a retirement funding gap.
So in my view, Portal initially presented Mrs T with what, in her situation, would have 
seemed a single choice: do nothing by simply staying in the pension scheme as currently 
held. And Im not therefore surprised that faced with this single option, she found this an 
unacceptable outcome in her circumstances which caused her to look for another, perhaps 
any other, solution. Portal then stepped in with such a solution; it immediately obliged 
because in the very same document it went on to promote an option which would have 
looked much less worse for Mrs T. This involved her transferring to a SIPP, accessing tax-
free cash of £15,381 and also a taxed amount of £16,250 (£13,000 net). 
Portal portrayed only these options. And knowing of her desire for immediate cash, it should 
have known she would always opt for the latter and transfer out of her OPS. Portal then 
engaged with her around facilitating the transfer and recommending the types of funds she 
could use to place the remaining pension money into. 
What Portal did, in my view, was simply to initially present Mrs T with an option which didnt 
meet her needs. And instead of explaining, in a convincing way, why the recommendation 
not to transfer was the most suitable thing to do, Portal was too quick to throw her the 
insistent client route, effectively endorsing what Mrs T had initially thought might be best.
The nature of the advice
I have explained above how I think Portals advice fell short on a number of fronts. When 
Mrs T asked for, and indeed paid for, regulated financial advice, I think she had the right to 
expect an objective set of recommendations based on her own personal circumstances. 
Instead, my finding here is that the advice was lacking in some areas, particularly in 
objectivity to the extent it forced her into what Portal said was an insistent client situation. In 
this sense, it became as the regulator described, a type of papering exercise.  
Having said that, I think its also fair to say that Portal did get some things right. I can see, for 
instance, that it asked for Mrs T to write out in her own hand why she wanted to go against 
the initial recommendation (not to transfer). I think this was good practice. And I note that she reiterated in writing that she wanted to access her pension, she wanted to clear her 
debts and she wanted to find a new home with her children. I can see these things were of 
the utmost urgency and importance to her and they probably outweighed all other concerns 
at that time. Mrs T made it very clear that she wanted to start a new chapter in her life and 
be debt free.
Did Portals mistakes make a difference to the outcome?
Mrs Ts representative said the terms used by Portal were ones she wasnt able to 
understand, particularly around the term insistent client and what this definition really 
meant. It was also said Mrs T did not understand what critical yield meant. 
The more substantive points made on her behalf relate to it being very unlikely that Mrs T 
would have ever insisted on transferring her DB pension and that it was simply Portal that 
recommended the proposed plan, not Mrs T. It was also said that Portal did not have to 
facilitate the transfer out.
Taking these things in turn, I dont agree that Mrs T couldnt understand the nature of what 
she was being told. I think the suitability report, flawed in places as it was, did clearly point 
out that transferring wasnt a good idea from a longer-term financial perspective. Simple 
language and sentences were used by Portal to say transferring out was inferior to staying 
in, and that the OPS had guarantees and benefits which she would be giving up. Nor do I 
think Mrs T couldnt understand that the yield needed  the critical yield  was about how 
much her funds would need to grow to match what she already had. A phone recording I 
listened to strengthens my view on this  Mrs T was told she was going against advice and 
the funds couldnt match her OPS. I therefore think this was explained in a clear enough way 
and Mrs T said she still wanted to go ahead.
I agree that Portal very quickly changed its position by recommending the eventual plan to 
transfer out after all. It probably knew this was potentially going to be the likely outcome. It 
really didnt explain enough about the not to transfer recommendation in terms of gap she 
faced in her 60s as a result of losing the DB scheme. I also agree Portal didnt need to 
facilitate the transfer and could effectively have walked away.
In summary then, Portal got some things right, but also some important things wrong.
However, the issue here is whether Portals failures matter in the overall context of what 
would have happened anyway. And importantly, I dont think Mrs T has been clear on what 
she would have done as an alternative to transferring out. As Ive explained, the evidence 
shows, very strongly in my view, that she was in a somewhat challenging situation 
financially. She herself was very clear that two things were of the utmost importance to her in 
immediate terms: moving to a new property following a separation; and paying off debts 
shed had for a long time. She made it clear these things represented a new start for her and 
they were major objectives for her.
The OPS she was in contained certain rules. One such rule was that she wouldnt have been 
able to access her pension early at the age of 57, whilst still remaining in her job. Mrs T had 
already said she intended to continue working for around five or six more years and with 
great respect, I dont think giving up her current job just to access the OPS benefits at that 
point was financially realistic for her. There was an option to take flexible retirement under 
the rules and access some cash but again, I dont think her finances supported this option; 
the amount released would have been far too low for what she needed and her ongoing 
income would have reduced, thus causing other significant financial pressures.My findings, given all the information Ive seen, are that Mrs T needed access to cash then 
and there to the extent that she would always therefore have opted to do what she did 
anyway i.e. transfer out. Pension freedoms allowed Mrs T to do this, and she was very 
aware of that entitlement. One lump sum covered the long-term debts, and the other lump-
sum was required to find somewhere to live. Specifically, she needed a deposit, furnishings 
and most likely help with a substantial increase in rent. In my view, there was no other way 
of her getting the money she needed.
These were therefore essential and urgent priorities which outweighed Mrs Ts future 
pension needs, even though she faced an apparent income gap between the ages of 63 (her 
hoped for retirement age) - and 66 (her state pension age). In arriving at that decision, I 
accept Mrs T had comparatively little retirement funds left after accessing her pension 
savings. But in reality, this unfortunately was always a modest pension and Mrs T needed 
money straight away to live on.
Is Mrs T worse off as a result?
Ive noted with great care everything that has been said about this, but the crux of this 
complaint is essentially that the OPS transfer wouldnt have gone ahead but for Portals 
advice. And Ive explained above why I think Mrs T would have still transferred regardless. 
Mrs Ts representative also implies shes been left worse off as a result of Portals unsuitable 
advice about the SIPP funds too. 
Response to my provisional decision
In bringing everything Ive said together, I set out in my provisional decision that Mrs T 
needed access to cash to the extent that she would always have opted to do what she did 
anyway and transfer out. Mrs T was aware of that entitlement in my view and also aware it 
wasnt Portals recommendation.
In its response, Mrs Ts representative broadly says the transfer-out of her pension to access 
cash was unsuitable and the evidence of whether or not she would have still gone ahead 
anyway isnt strong enough.
Ive considered all thats been said on Mrs Ts behalf with care and I understand the points 
being made. However, Im not persuaded, for the above reasons, that Mrs T would have 
acted differently. Nor do I think the evidence about her acting differently is somehow weak. 
Ultimately I think Mrs T knew she was being advised against transferring her pension, but 
her financial situation meant her only way of achieving her objectives were to do just that. 
And whilst her representative makes a number of points, I dont think Mrs T has been clear 
on what she would have done as an alternative to transferring out.
Summary
Portal certainly didnt get everything right. However, I think Mrs T would have still wanted to 
take the same action as she eventually did, by transferring her OPS to a SIPP and access 
her cash for the essentials in her life. The amounts of cash she accessed met her two 
specific needs of the time and she had some funds invested to drawdown at a later date.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman