DRN-4142645
The complaint
Mr L complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2018, Mr L acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Specialist Motor Finance. Mr L was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £433.18, 
with a final optional payment of £443.18 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the 
agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £26,000.
In mid-2020 Mr L got into difficulties with meeting his payments under the terms of the 
agreement. The car was later sold at auction after Mr L voluntarily returned it. 
Mr L says that Specialist Motor Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He 
says if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Specialist Motor Finance 
didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included verifying Mr Ls 
income and reviewing his credit history. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Specialist Motor 
Finance ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr L.
As Specialist Motor Finance hasnt provided a formal response to our adjudicators 
recommendation, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Specialist Motor Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Specialist Motor Finance hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed, although 
Mr L has obtained a copy of his own credit report which he has shared with us. Ive seen that 
Specialist Motor Finance prepared a summary overview of Mr Ls credit commitments at the 
time. I think this gives some indication of what Specialist Motor Finance would likely have 
seen. At the time of the application it shows that in the months leading up to the agreement 
Mr L had been making frequent use of high cost, short term credit. Whilst he was managing 
his payments towards these reasonably well, he was at the same time also managing a 
mortgage, several credit cards and unsecured loans alongside them. He had also had three 
historical credit defaults in the past, although the most recent of these had been in 
March 2014. On their own I would generally consider these defaults be a lesser concern. But 
I do think the high level of short-term borrowing in the months leading up to the agreement 
strongly suggests that Mr L may have been beginning to struggle financially again. 
Specialist Motor Finance says it based its decision to lend on Mr L sharing all household 
costs with his wife and on that basis estimated that he would be left with enough disposable 
income to meet the monthly payments that would be due under the agreement. Against this 
background, I think Specialist Motor Finance ought to have carried out more detailed checks. 
So I agree that it would have been proportionate for Specialist Motor Finance to have got a 
more thorough understanding of Mr Ls overall financial circumstances before lending.
I think it would have been proportionate for Specialist Motor Finance to have taken better 
steps to properly verify Mr Ls financial circumstances. One way Specialist Motor Finance 
could have done this was by requesting copies of bank statements. Ive reviewed three 
months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. 
The statements show that Mr L was receiving a net monthly employment income of around 
£2,700. Mr L told us that whilst his wife paid for petrol, child expenses and shopping, the 
balance of the household costs, including credit payments, was paid by him. So its likely 
that Mr L was having to pay for a level of committed expenditure that was substantially more 
than the 50% of household expenses that Specialist Motor Finance had assumed for the 
purposes of assessing Mr Ls ability to repay the finance.  Ive seen that in the two months 
before the agreement, a total of £1,500 and then £1,350 in sums borrowed was being paid 
into the account. At the same time Mr L was paying out around £1,400 to cover his 
mortgage, credit cards and additional short-term borrowing. To summarise, the statements 
show that a great deal of reliance was being placed on high cost borrowing and I think that 
supports the fact that Mr Ls financial situation was likely to have been already deteriorating 
before he took out the agreement. Were it not for the additional borrowing that was being 
taken out in the months before the agreement, Mr L would not have had enough disposable 
income to be able to meet the monthly repayments that would be due. 
I am therefore satisfied that the statements show that Mr L was struggling financially. I dont 
consider he was in a position to afford the repayments towards the new agreement without 
getting into further financial difficulty and having to borrow further. Had Specialist Motor 
Finance completed proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. 
It therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right  what Specialist Motor Finance needs to do
As I dont think Specialist Motor Finance ought to have approved the lending, it should 
therefore refund all the payments Mr L has made, including any deposit. However, based on 
the information we have, Mr L did have use of the car for around 33 months before he 
returned it  during which time it appears from the available information that 32 payments 
were made to Specialist Motor Finance - so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not 
persuaded that monthly repayments of over £400 a month are a fair reflection of what fair 
usage would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying 
interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Ls likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr L should pay is £300 for 
each month he had had use of the car. This means Specialist Motor Finance can only ask 
him to repay a total of £9,600. Anything Mr L has paid in excess of this amount should be 
treated as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ls complaint Specialist Motor Finance should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.Refund all the payments Mr L has made, less £9,600 for fair usage. 
oIf Mr L has paid more than the fair usage figure, Specialist Motor Finance 
should refund any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from 
the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr L has paid less than the fair usage figure, Specialist Motor Finance 
should arrange an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the 
outstanding balance. 
Once Specialist Motor Finance has received the fair usage amount, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Specialist Motor Finance to take off tax from this interest. 
Specialist Motor Finance must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
Mr L asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman