DRN-4266767
The complaint
Miss J complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with MotoNovo Finance Limited, who Ill call MotoNovo.
Miss J has been represented by her partner but as Miss J is named on the finance
agreement, and for convenience, Ill refer only to Miss J in this decision. I mean no
disrespect to her partner when doing so.
What happened
I issued provisional decisions on this complaint earlier this year. An extract from my last 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think this car has been of unsatisfactory quality. I dont think the redress proposed by our
investigator was sufficient to put things right for Miss J and I think a little more needs to be
done.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss J acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible.
Its not disputed that this car wasnt of satisfactory quality. MotoNovo accept that they were
unaware, and Miss J hadnt been made aware, that it was listed as Category S under the
Association of British Insurers Salvage Code of Practice, and that meant it had structural
damage.
MotoNovo agreed to allow Miss J to reject the car. They offered to take the car back, refund
the £2,100 Miss J had paid as a deposit, and to pay Miss J £150 to compensate her for the
distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss J didnt want to return the car. The call logs suggest she wanted to have it repaired
instead, but its MotoNovos policy not to finance Category S cars so I cant say it was
unreasonable of them not to agree to a repair.
When we ask a business to reject a car we usually think its fair to ask them to end the
finance agreement, refund any deposit, refund any finance instalments less an amount for
fair usage, refund any costs incurred by the consumer as a consequence of the failure, and
pay an amount to compensate the consumer for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ill
consider each point in turn.
Ending the finance agreement
Im expecting to tell MotoNovo to end the agreement and, as they mentioned in their final
response letter of 20 January 2023, that will mean theyll need to remove any record of the
agreement from Miss Js credit file. I understand that Miss J is upset MotoNovo have been
reporting some missed payments to her credit file. Shes made a separate complaint to
MotoNovo about that action. As Im expecting to ask MotoNovo to remove any record of the
finance agreement from Miss Js credit file, that will go some way to resolving that complaint.
It may be, however, that the complaint still needs to be considered by MotoNovo as it may
be fair to pay some compensation to Miss J (although I make no finding on that).
The car belongs to MotoNovo so theyll need to collect it before they can action any order I
make.
Refund of the deposit and finance instalments
Mr J paid £2,100 as a deposit/part exchange. That will need to be refunded to her and, as
shes been deprived of that money, MotoNovo should add interest to the refund.
The relevant legislation says that the business are entitled to retain a portion of any finance
instalments paid by the consumer in respect of the fair use they have had from the car.
Miss J took receipt of the vehicle on 8 August 2022, and it was returned briefly for repairs
somewhere around 16 to 18 August 2023. It seems a courtesy car wasnt provided. Miss J
has explained that the repairs were unsuccessful, and the car was booked in for further
repairs between 8 and 26 October. Thereafter the car was inspected and left at a third party
repairer. On balance, given the information thats available to me, it seems Miss J had
impaired use of the car up until 8 October 2022 and no use thereafter. Im therefore
expecting to ask MotoNovo to refund, or waive if they were due but havent been paid, any
finance instalments due from 8 October 2022. Im also expecting them to refund 10% of any
instalments due before 8 October 2022 in respect of the impaired use Miss J had from the
car as the evidence suggests she was having problems with it.
Consequential costs
Miss J has explained that she has incurred costs for hire cars, repairs, and air conditioning
re-gassing as a consequence of the problems shes had with the car. MotoNovo, and our
investigator, have asked for evidence of those costs, but I cant see any has been provided
and Im not therefore expecting to authorise any refunds.
Miss J has suggested that the third party garage who are currently storing the car will want
to charge storage fees of £15 per day. Shes explained that the car cant be driven, and she
cant afford to have it uplifted. Ive not seen evidence that any charges have been incurred or
billed, but if charges are levied I dont think its fair to expect Miss J to pay them. The call
logs suggest Miss J wouldnt tell MotoNovo where the car was, and I can understand they
may therefore say that prevented them from collecting it and avoiding the storage charges.
Whilst its clear that MotoNovo did offer to end the agreement and collect the car as soon asthey heard of the cars insurance categorisation, the offer they made to settle the dispute
was in my opinion, inadequate. So, I dont think Miss J was unreasonable to reject it and any
storage charges incurred as a consequence should therefore be paid by MotoNovo.
Distress and inconvenience
Miss J has experienced distress and inconvenience here and I dont think the £150 the
business have currently offered is sufficient to address that. I can see that Miss J had to
return the car to the dealership for repairs and that a courtesy car wasnt provided to keep
her mobile. And the fact a Category S car was supplied to Miss J, that MotoNovo wont
continue to finance, has further inconvenienced her as she has had to return a car she
clearly wanted repairing. On balance, considering all of the circumstances, I think MotoNovo
should provide a further £300 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint. That will mean that
after Miss J tells MotoNovo Finance Limited the current location of the car they will need to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss J.
Refund, or waive if they were due and havent been paid, any finance instalments
from 8 October 2022. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 10% of finance instalments paid before 8 October 2022 in respect of the
impaired use Miss J had from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund Miss Js deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss J a further £300 (£450 in total) to compensate her for the distress and
inconvenience shes experienced.
Pay any storage costs that may become due to the business currently storing the
vehicle and on provision of the bill. Costs not to exceed £15 per day as per the
repairers estimate.
Remove any record of the agreement from Miss Js credit file.
Further comments
MotoNovo didnt provide any further comments or evidence, but Miss J did. She said:
I have not been able to agree to your decision as it leaves me financially at a huge loss.
1. The (car) I exchanged for the Nissan Juke had an asset value of £3000 and was sold by
(the dealership) for over that amount. I received £1400 part exchange on the express deal of
having a fully functioning road worthy Nissan Juke and I dont think it is unreasonable to
expect to be reimbursed the difference seeing as the vehicle is now being returned so I will
neither have my previous asset or the one it was exchanged for. This will cause me to suffer
a total loss of £1600.
2. On 8th August 2022, I entered into a hire purchase agreement with Motonovo {} the
vehicle was unsafe to be driven on the road. I find it insulting to suggest that I had use of this
vehicle. I do not agree that it is acceptable for me to be paying any amount for use of this
vehicle that could have caused the injury or death of myself and family and will require full
return of all deposits and monies paid totalling £2632.92.
3. I am entitled to loss of use payment for both pleasure use and loss of amenity and thishas been legal precedent since Birmingham Corporation v Sowsbery 1970 the award being
£4 11 Shilings around £90 in current terms. I have claimed at £77.31 based on hire value of
same vehicle. I will accept that there are differing awards given per case for loss of use but
the lowest I can find, based on purely loss of pleasurable use, is still at £15 per day. I do not
think it is reasonable to not be compensated at all for my loss of use and would expect at
the least to be awarded the lowest award of £15 per day in line with legal precedent in UK
Law. That amounts to 236 days on the 20th June totalling £3510.
4. The storage costs are on the invoice attached to this email along with the inspection cost.
It is clear on the invoice what the daily rate is, and this will be charged to me in full when the
vehicle is removed. I appreciate that you have not been provided with a copy to date of the
invoice. The total for the invoice will be the total storage days and inspection cost, being at
on the 20th June 2023, 236 days totalling £3618.
5. I hired a vehicle to fulfil a prebooked trip with my Mum for her Birthday, at a cost of
£186.64 invoice attached.
6. I had to re-gas the aircon, which didnt even work due to the substantial damage that the
vehicle had. Invoice attached for £64.95.
I do not agree that £450 compensation is a reasonable amount given that this vehicle was
not roadworthy on collection and could have caused serious injury or worse. I was
fraudulently duped out of my asset that I had painstakingly paid for over five years. I was
given zero help to rectify the issue. My payments were stopped by Motonovo and then I was
harassed and treated as a non-paying debtor. It has taken 10 months and is still unresolved.
It has cost me considerably more then £45 per month to be without a reliable vehicle so this
wouldnt even be compensation as it wouldnt even cover my many unquantifiable costs.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss J for her additional comments. I had explained in my initial provisional decision
that I was expecting to ask MotoNovo to Refund Miss Js deposit and add 8% simple
interest per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. For clarity
the finance agreement explains that a £600 deposit was paid and that there was a part
exchange contribution of £1,500. Id expect to tell MotoNovo to refund the deposit and the
part exchange, but I cant see the part exchange contributed any more than £1,500 towards
the cost of the car.
Whilst I understand Miss Js concerns about paying anything towards a car that has proven
to be unsatisfactory, the relevant legislation allows the business to retain some of the finance
instalments in respect of any use the consumer may have had from the car. For the reasons
Ive already given I think Miss J had some impaired use prior to 8 October 2022. Im not
therefore minded to change that view.
Miss J says she is entitled to a loss of use payment for both pleasure use and loss of
amenity. Ive suggested a refund in respect of loss of use (amenity) and impaired use
(pleasure) and Ive set out, I think fairly, what those refunds should be.
The invoice Miss J has provided explains that storage costs will be calculated at £15 per day
and thats what Im expecting to order. I see no reason to change that.
Miss J has provided a receipt for car hire when she had to make alternative arrangements totake a trip with her mother. That was only a few days after the car had been taken to the
garage and I dont think Miss J could have reasonably been expected to mitigate that cost
e.g. by funding another car. No courtesy car was provided, and I therefore think the cost was
incurred as a consequence of her leased vehicle failing. The invoice cost of £186.64 should
therefore be refunded by MotoNovo and they will need to add interest to that refund as Miss
J has been deprived of that money.
Miss J has also provided a receipt for re-gassing of the air conditioning. That is dated 18
August 2022 before the cars rejection was approved. I think it was likely to be a fault present
when the car was supplied and one MotoNovo should therefore refund to Miss J, with
interest.
Miss J has understandably found these events distressing and shes been inconvenienced
by them. But having considered our published guidance on distress and inconvenience
payments I am not persuaded to increase the compensation I set out in my original
provisional decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint. That will mean that
after Miss J tells MotoNovo Finance Limited the current location of the car they will need to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss J.
Refund, or waive if they were due and havent been paid, any finance instalments
from 8 October 2022. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 10% of finance instalments paid before 8 October 2022 in respect of the
impaired use Miss J had from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund Miss Js deposit and any part exchange and add 8% simple interest per year
to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss J a further £300 (£450 in total) to compensate her for the distress and
inconvenience shes experienced.
Pay any storage costs that may become due to the business currently storing the
vehicle and on provision of the bill. Costs not to exceed £15 per day as per the
repairers estimate.
Refund the £64.95 Miss J spent re-gassing the car. Add 8% simple interest per year
to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the £186.64 Miss J paid for a hire car as a consequence of the car she was
renting failing. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any record of the agreement from Miss Js credit file.
Further comments on my second provisional decision.
MotoNovo accepted my provisional decision but explained that they wouldnt be able to 
provide the redress Id set out until the car was back in their possession.
Miss J didnt agree with the provisional decision and her representative called to say they 
believed it was unlawful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Miss Js disappointment I dont think Ive been provided with any 
information that would demonstrate I have the law wrong in this case. Im therefore not 
persuaded to change my most recent provisional decision.
Putting things right
My most recent provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint. 
For clarity it is usual, and Id expect, the business to provide the redress Im ordering only 
after they have collected the car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint. That will mean that after Miss J 
tells MotoNovo Finance Limited the current location of the car they will need to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss J.
Refund, or waive if they were due and havent been paid, any finance instalments
from 8 October 2022. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 10% of finance instalments paid before 8 October 2022 in respect of the
impaired use Miss J had from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund Miss Js deposit and any part exchange and add 8% simple interest per year
to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss J a further £300 (£450 in total) to compensate her for the distress and
inconvenience shes experienced.
Pay any storage costs that may become due to the business currently storing the
vehicle and on provision of the bill. Costs not to exceed £15 per day as per the
repairers estimate.
Refund the £64.95 Miss J spent re-gassing the car. Add 8% simple interest per year
to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the £186.64 Miss J paid for a hire car as a consequence of the car she was
renting failing. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any record of the agreement from Miss Js credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman