DRN-2136953
The complaint
Mr J says Gain Credit LLC - trading as Lending Stream - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr J between      
January and July 2018. A summary of Mr Js borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 13/01/2018 23/07/2018 6 £200.00 £84.80
2 04/03/2018 Debt Sold 6 £500.00 £303.68
3 02/07/2018 Debt Sold 6 £500.00 £348.80
In its final response, Lending Stream offered to uphold loan 3. To date, Mr J hasnt accepted 
this offer. 
Mr Js complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Lending Stream had asked   
Mr J to provide that should have prompted Lending Stream to do more checks. So, the 
adjudicator couldnt say Lending Stream was wrong to have given the loans to Mr J.  
Mr J disagreed. He said Lending Stream should have noticed that the borrowing was 
unaffordable as it was clear from his account. As Mr J asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed, it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Mr J could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lending Stream has offered to uphold Mr Js complaint about loan 3. As the offer is in line 
with our approach, I wont be making any further findings on it, other than to say that Lending 
Streams offer still stands. This just leaves me to consider loans 1 and 2. 
Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Lending Streams checks 
didnt go far enough and it should have been aware that the loans were unaffordable. So, it 
shouldnt have lent to him.
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr J about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of between £1,650 and £1,700. Lending Stream also 
checked Mr Js normal monthly living costs. Mr J declared these to be between £575 and 
£950 a month. Lending Stream says it also searched Mr Js credit file and it has provided the 
results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court 
judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were taken out. So, there wasnt 
anything that should have promoted Lending Stream to do further checks. 
Mr J borrowed loan 1 and 2 over two months. So, he was very early on in his lending 
relationship with Lending Stream. Even though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
Lending Stream. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr J provided at the time 
which would have given Lending Stream cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of 
Lending Stream to have relied on what Mr J gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Lending Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending Stream did before lending the loans went far enough. Mr J has also provided a copy of his bank statements 
and I can see he was borrowing from other short-term lenders at this time. But as Ive 
explained above, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream at this stage to undertake any 
more in-depth checks. 
The information Mr J declared to Lending Stream at the time of the loans may not have been 
an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Lending Stream was entitled 
to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Lending Stream 
knew about Mr J, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream to verify the information Mr J 
gave it. This therefore means, I cant say that Lending Stream has done something wrong in 
lending Mr J these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr J, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Putting things right
Lending Stream has offered to settle Mr Js complaint about loan 3 by doing the following:
refund all interest and charges he paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Js credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit LLC 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Js complaint and make no award against Gain Credit LLC regarding 
loans 1 and 2. It is now up to Mr J if he wishes to accept the offer on loan 3. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman