DRN-2753659
The complaint
Mr D complains that National House-Building Council have declined his warranty claim..
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D has strong views about what has happened, and he has provided several 
submissions to support his complaint. I want to assure him Ive read and considered them all 
carefully, but my findings focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont 
intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in 
it.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under section three of the warranty, it explains NHBC will cover the full cost of 
putting right any physical damage caused by a defect in certain parts of the property 
 this warranty is valid for ten years 
Mr Ds warranty expired in 2015, so I would need to be satisfied the issues reported 
by Mr D relate to previous work carried out by NHBC  and are not new, unrelated 
issues
NHBC previously considered claims under the warranty and I can see repairs were 
made to cavity walls around 2014
Further work was approved in 2015 which was then completed in 2016. NHBC 
carried out repairs to the coping stones on top of the parapet wall, and to cavity trays
Mr D says the most recent issues are due to the original construction of the roof and 
are a continuation of the issues hes experienced previously. He provided emails 
from the propertys management company which includes comments from an expert. 
The expert comments there are issues with the installation of the box gutter
NHBC provided an investigation report in 2019 which explains in detail what they 
believe to be cause of the recent leaking reported by Mr D and why. Although there is 
a disagreement on the exact cause of what has made the area relating to the box 
gutter defective, both parties seem to be in agreement the box gutter is the area of 
concern  and not the areas previously of concern when NHBC considered claims. 
So because this differs from what was considered previously by NHBC, Im satisfied 
it is a new issue and therefore falls outside of the warranty period. 
I appreciate the situation has been stressful to Mr D. But as Ive set out above, Im 
not persuaded the issues reported by Mr D are a continuation of issues previously 
reported. And as the warranty has long expired, Im not persuaded in the 
circumstances that NHBC can be held responsible
So for these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman