DRN-3031636
complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out in 1996 and 2006.  Mrs K and Mr S say Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs K and 
Mr S circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought BoS offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the first PPI policy because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mrs K and Mr S paid, was fair in the circumstances. And they 
said that, although BoS says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the 
second policy, it has made an offer as if it had.
Mrs K and Mr S representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs K and Mr S. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs K and 
Mr S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the 
commission it received on the first policy - but that BoS offer to refund some of the cost of 
PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mrs K and Mr S about the commission it received on 
the second policy - so BoS doesnt need to pay back any of the commission they paid for the 
PPI. But in any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs 
to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think, on balance, BoS made it clear that Mrs K and Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out in 1996. I say this because the event in question happened 
many years ago and unsurprisingly BoS hasnt got any of the key documentation from 
the time of the sale such as Mrs K and Mr S mortgage application. And Mrs K and Mr S 
recollections of the event arent detailed either. 
So taking everything into account Ive not seen enough to persuade me that BoS acted 
unfairly towards Mrs K and Mr S and misrepresented the policy as not being optional.
In 2006 Mrs K and Mr S took out another PPI policy following a change to their 
mortgage. BoS has provided some of the paperwork from time of the sale, including the 
demands and needs form the adviser used to assess the suitability of the policy for Mrs 
K and Mr S. And while the paperwork isnt complete, BoS has shown us some examples 
of the complete set and which it says represents what Mrs K and Mr S would have likely 
seen at the time in question. And these show that a consumer would have understood 
they had a choice about PPI.
So in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very different happened in Mrs 
K and Mr S case, I think they chose to take out PPI and likely did so without undue 
pressure.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mrs K and Mr S on both occasions - so it had to 
check that the PPI was right for them. And the evidence about Mrs K and Mr S 
circumstances at the time of each sale, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for them. 
1996 policy
For example Mr S was eligible for the policy (it was in his sole name) and although its 
not entirely clear to what extent Mrs K and Mr S had existing provision by way of 
employee benefits or savings, on the basis that the policy would have paid out for up to 
12 months per claim - longer than I think any sick pay Mr S was entitled to would have 
lasted - and it was protecting their mortgage payments and so ultimately their home, I 
think they had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr S employment or occupation, which would have made it 
difficult for them to claim. And Although Mr S says he had a couple of medical conditions 
around 11 and 12 years prior to the sale, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have 
recommended the policy. I say this because the policy exclusion only related to those 
conditions for which treatment or advice had been sought in the 12 months before the 
start date of the policy and which recurred within 24 months of the start date. And Mr S 
has not said or implied his conditions were ongoing such that I think he would have been 
caught by this exclusion. 
Im mindful too that BoS records about the policy indicate Mr S answered No to having 
any existing medical conditions (albeit I accept I dont know how this question was 
asked.) But I think it nevertheless goes some way to support my view that, more likely 
than not Mr S was in good health at the time of the sale.
2006 policyMrs K and Mr S were both eligible for this policy and based on what they said their 
existing provision looked like  Mr S was entitled to less than three months sick pay and 
jointly they didnt have any savings  I think they had a need for cover.
There was nothing about either of their occupations, which would have made it difficult 
for them to claim and Mrs K was in good health, so she wasnt caught by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover. And because Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr S health was fundamentally different in 2006 - Mr S didnt disclose his conditions 
when asked by the adviser when they gave their advice and in any event with this policy 
Mr S could claim for his conditions if hed been symptom free within the 24 months of 
making a claim  I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended PPI at this 
time.
I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mrs K and Mr S about the PPI on both 
occasions wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But each time Ive found that they likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mrs K and Mr S as I concluded above, or likely too dissimilar to 
what they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were given. It 
also looks like both policies were affordable  so it seems like each policy would have 
been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs K and Mr 
S would have declined the cover on either occasion had BoS done anything more.
While both policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs K and Mr S circumstances at the time of sale and despite the 
limitations and exclusions, each policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for 
them. So on each occasion I think they would have still thought they had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs K and Mr S would have still taken out PPI in 1996 and 2006. I 
think each policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances 
at the respective time. I also think each policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they 
thought they were getting. And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken 
out each policy in any event.
Mrs K and Mr S representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs K and Mr S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs K and Mr S individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs K and Mr S particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K and Mr S.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the commission it received in 
relation to the first policy and that BoS offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate 
for the unfairness caused is fair. But for the second policy, Ive decided BoS didnt need to 
disclose the commission it received  but in any event BoS has paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI, so theres nothing more it needs to do for this one. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Dealing with the 2006 policy first  Mrs K and Mr S representative has made a number of 
representations about this part of the complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment 
and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mrs K and Mr S PPI was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs K and Mr S case was 
less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Mrs K and Mr S about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mrs K 
and Mr S unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Mrs K and Mr S back any of the commission they paid 
for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has paid back to Mrs K and Mr S some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate them as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
Turning to the 1996 policy - BoS didnt tell Mrs K and Mr S about the high levels of 
commission and profit share paid in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin2 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
2 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipdisclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
BoS and Mrs K and Mr S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because BoS didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case 
I dont think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs K and Mr S because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
As I set out above, Mrs K and Mr S representative has made a number of representations 
about this part of the complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs K and Mr S should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: BoS failed to tell Mrs K and Mr S about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs K and Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should 
receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mrs 
K and Mr S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by BoS not disclosing the high level of 
commission to them before they purchased the policy.So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs K and Mr S representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for BoS failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for BoS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs K and Mr S paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs K 
and Mr S with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if BoS had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that BoS offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As I understand that BoS has already paid Mrs K and Mr S compensation on this basis, I 
dont consider it should do anything further. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs K and Mr S complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mrs K and Mr S an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the first policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable.) As I understand that Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid compensation on 
this basis, I dont consider it should do anything more in relation to this policy.
And although Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received on the second policy and so it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission 
Mrs K and Mr S paid for the PPI, Bank of Scotland Plc has paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs K and Mr S. As a result Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs K and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman