DRN-4091488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds rejection of their home 
insurance claim was unfair.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Cs property was damaged following storm conditions in their local area, so they 
made a claim on their Admiral home insurance policy. This happened around July 2021.
Admiral considered the claim, they looked at weather records from the time and arranged for 
the damage to be inspected. Admiral didnt think storm conditions were present at the time 
and their claims advisers felt the damage related to wear and tear  which the policy doesnt 
cover.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with that, they provided evidence in the form of newspaper 
articles to reinforce that there were storm conditions in their local area. The article described 
freak storms including torrential rain, hail, thunder and lightning leaving a trail of devastation.
Mr and Mrs C also provided a report from a roofing company which stated The damage to 
the internal we believe is down to a freak downpour as there was no further water coming in 
when it rained at less volume and only leaked in the freak downpour.
Admiral maintained their stance and the case was referred to our service. An investigator 
here looked into the matter. They felt the claim shouldve been covered due to the evidence 
Mr and Mrs C had provided.
But Admiral didnt agree, and they provided us with further evidence to support their position.
As such, the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision last month, 
in which I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I have 
included the text below:
While I can well appreciate the reason Mr and Mrs C consider the claim should be covered, I 
dont agree that Admiral have been unfair. Im happy to accept that there were storm 
conditions at the time and that the storm caused damage to their property. But the final thing 
I need to consider is whether the policy exclusion relied upon by Admiral was fairly applied.
I think it was. The report provided by Mr and Mrs C states that On inspecting the external 
mineral felt roof we could see that the felt was splitting in places and visible cracks in the 
bitumen. This view is supported by photographs in the report and suggests to me that the 
proximate cause of the damage was the condition of the roof.
In other words, had the roof been in sound condition the water would have been unlikely to 
have penetrated as it did. The cracks seemingly allowed the water to enter the property and 
the condition of the roof was rather highlighted by the storm conditions.
Because of that, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to have relied upon the wear 
and tear exclusion within the policy. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C have also said the roof had 
been maintained more recently than Admirals claims advisers had said but, given what Ive 
seen in the aforementioned report, I still think wear and tear was the overriding factor in the 
water entering the property.
Furthermore, Admiral has also now provided their claims advisers report which states The 
ingress of rainwater has occurred as a result of the failed flat roof covering which is likely to 
have been allowing rainwater to enter the roof undetected over a period of time.
It is disappointing that Admiral didnt provide us with all of the evidence they relied upon 
earlier, but given everything I have seen I dont think their claim decision was unfair.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, they made the following points in response. Firstly, that the report 
Admiral relied upon was based on drone footage rather than a physical rooftop inspection. 
And that the roof was able to withstand normal rainfall both before and after the storm. They 
also felt Admirals view that rainfall had likely entered the roof previously was just 
supposition. Mr and Mrs C also offered to send in video footage of the leak at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes Mr and Mrs Cs points outlined above. Im sorry to disappoint them, but I 
maintain that Admiral werent unfair in their decision not to pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Regarding the drone footage, I don't consider this to mean a fair assessment wasn't 
possible. The photos in the report are clear, and I have also considered the report provided 
by Mr and Mrs C. I'm satisfied that both reports provide a fair reflection of the roof condition.
I understand that there appeared to be no signs of water ingress during normal rainfall both 
before and after the storm. This is where some of the difficulty lies. I accepted there were 
storm conditions, and I dont doubt that the water ingress came during those. But, I don't 
think it's unreasonable for Admiral to have expected a roof, without splitting and cracks, to 
have withstood those conditions.
I also appreciate the point about supposition, but water can enter undetected. And, even if it 
hadn't entered before, the condition of the roof appears to have been a significant factor at 
the point when it did.
As Ive explained, rainwater ingress at the time is not in doubt as far as I am concerned. And 
while the roof may have been able to withstand normal rainfall, it wasn't able to withstand 
very heavy rainfall. Unfortunately, that on its own doesn't mean Admiral were unreasonable. 
I think they fairly concluded that a roof without splitting and cracks would have likely 
withstood the rainfall that penetrated Mr and Mrs C's roof. I do appreciate the subtleties of 
this case, but I also recognise that the report Mr and Mrs C provided only says the weather 
conditions caused the internal damage. And usually, for a storm claim to be accepted, there 
needs to have been some external damage caused by the storm too, such as tiling being 
removed by high winds. The cracking and splitting identified in this case isnt indicative of 
that caused by high winds and/or heavy rainfall.
Furthermore, the report provided by Mr and Mrs C recommends remedial work that will 
ensure there will be no further issue for the coming years. That to me suggests that the roof 
required maintenance which would prevent ingress for some time, and I think its reasonable 
to conclude that had the maintenance been completed prior to the storm, the leak would not have occurred.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman