DRN-3351449
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M was given a loan of £1,250 by EDL in April 2018. The loan was repayable in 24 
monthly instalments of about £138. The total amount payable, including interest was just 
over £3,312.  I understand Mr M experienced difficulties repaying the loan and the debt was 
sold to a third party.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and thought that EDL had been wrong to 
provide Mr M with the loan. EDL didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. As the 
complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did EDL make a fair lending decision? 
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M irresponsibly. The 
lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so EDL had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. 
EDL had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that EDL had to do, but it 
could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of 
the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether EDL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr M.
EDL requested information about Mr Ms income and it acquired a credit report and bank 
statements. EDL used ONS data to calculate Mr Ms regular living expenses and it 
calculated his commitment to outstanding creditors. From what Ive seen, I think the checks 
that EDL carried out before it agreed to lend to Mr M were reasonable and proportionate, in 
the circumstances.
However, I dont think that EDL made a fair lending decision and I will explain why.
EDL says the loan was being used to consolidate some of Mr Ms existing pay day loan 
commitments and it thinks its loan was affordable for him. 
I think EDL focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr M on a pounds 
and pence basis. But as Ive already explained, the lender was required to establish whether 
the borrower could sustainably meet the loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
From what Ive seen, EDL was aware from the information it had gathered that Mr M had 
been struggling financially for some time. Mr M had been borrowing from a number of high 
cost lenders with at least one substantial outstanding loan, several pay day loans, mail order 
and home lending accounts and an outstanding hire purchase agreement. Mr M also held 
several credit cards and had previously experienced problems repaying credit, with three 
active CCJs. EDL says that Mr M provided a reasonable explanation for the adverse 
information on his credit report and that as the last CCJ had been applied against Mr M over 
14 months prior to his EDL loan application, this was not a reason not to lend. EDL says that 
after the partial debt consolidation Mr M would have had a debt to income ratio of around 
39% which it thinks was not unreasonable.
But I think EDL ought reasonably and fairly to have realised that the high percentage of Mr 
Ms income that was going towards repayment of debt each month meant he was at 
significant risk of continuing to experience financial difficulty. Mr M was applying for a costly 
loan from EDL, repayable over an extended period. Given the level of his total remaining 
credit exposure, I think EDL ought reasonably to have realised that Mr M was borrowing to keep up with his financial commitments and even with partial debt consolidation, Mr M would 
most likely struggle to meet his loan repayments sustainably over the whole loan term 
without borrowing further. I think in these particular circumstances, EDL should reasonably 
have concluded that it was not appropriate to provide the loan to Mr M.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that EDL acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr M in some other way. But I dont think EDL ought to have lent to him. So I am 
upholding this complaint and directing EDL to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
I understand the debt may have been sold to a third party. If this is the case, EDL should 
either buy the debt back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If EDL isnt 
able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
below.
EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr 
M made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then EDL should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If an outstanding balance remains, then EDL should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give Mr 
M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman