DRN-1457542
The complaint
Mr O complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. unfairly declined his travel insurance claim and avoided his policy. 
Mr O is represented by a relative in bringing this complaint, but for ease all submissions will 
be referenced as being made by Mr O directly. 
What happened
Mr O held a travel insurance policy with Mapfre. In April 2019 he travelled to Turkey for a 
holiday. But unfortunately, shortly after his holiday had begun, Mr O became unwell and 
underwent prostate surgery in a Turkish hospital. 
Mr O contacted Mapfre for assistance, but after assessing his claim it said Mr O had 
misrepresented his position. Mapfre said Mr O hadnt disclosed two medical conditions when 
he took out his policy (an enlarged prostate and mild aortic stenosis), and said it wouldnt 
have offered him a policy had that not been misrepresented. So it took the decision to avoid 
Mr Os policy and refund his premiums.
However Mapfres communication with Mr O whilst he was in hospital had been limited, and 
it acknowledged it hadnt provided Mr O with the level of service it should have during that 
time. So it apologised for those service failings and sent Mr O £400 in compensation to 
reflect any trouble and upset it had caused. 
Mr O, unhappy with that decision, approached this service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But based on the available 
evidence he didnt think Mapfre had acted unreasonably in determining that Mr O had 
misrepresented his position. And in line with the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and 
Representations Act 2020, he didnt think Mapfre had acted unreasonably in avoiding Mr Os 
policy and returning his premiums either. 
However our investigator, while agreeing the level of service Mapfre had provided had fallen 
short, thought the £400 it had already sent Mr O was fair amount to reflect this. 
Mr O disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said Mapfre had treated him unfairly and 
had done nothing to help him. He was certain Mapfre would have provided him with cover, 
albeit at a higher premium, and said it was using the misrepresentation argument as a way 
of not paying his claim. Mr O also said hed spent a lot of money on hospital bills and 
Mapfres £400 in compensation did not reflect that. And he said that he could have 
undergone a simpler procedure in Turkey if Mapfre had been involved sooner, which would 
have allowed him to travel back to the UK for treatment. 
So as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and will explain why. 
It is clear that Mr O feels very strongly about whats happened in this case and he has set 
out his position at length. But my findings will only focus on those matters I consider central 
to the outcome of this complaint. That means I wont address every point or argument that 
Mr O has made, and I trust that he wont take that as a matter of discourtesy. 
The misrepresentation 
When someone applies for an insurance policy, theyll be asked a variety of questions. 
Insurers will use the answers given to assess the potential risks being presented by that 
individual. And in turn, will decide whether or not its prepared to insure that risk. 
Under the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2020 (CIDRA), Mr O 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he applied for his 
policy. And if a misrepresentation did occur, under that same Act Mapfre had certain actions 
that it could take to remedy matters. 
During his application, Mr O was asked several questions about his health which I think were 
clear and specific. Mapfre has said Mr O should have disclosed an enlarged prostate and 
mild aortic stenosis during that time. But Mr O has argued that he wasnt aware of those 
conditions/diagnoses. And has said that some insurers dont take mild conditions into 
account either.
Ive looked at the available medical evidence in this case and can see that Mr Os medical 
records show that, prior to his application for the policy, he was taking two prescribed 
medications for lower urinary tract symptoms. Those medications were Tamsulosin and 
Finasteride, and the NHS website states:
Tamsulosin belongs to a group of medicines called alpha-blockers. Its used to treat men 
with symptoms of an enlarged prostate
Finasteride is used to treat men with an enlarged prostate  
Mr Os medical records also show that in March 2017 he saw a consultant urologist who had 
commented on the medication he was taking, and had advised Mr O could be referred back 
to him for consideration of a particular operation called TURP, if that medication failed. 
For reference, the NHS website explains that TURP (which stands for transurethral resection 
of the prostate) is a surgical procedure used to cut away a part of the prostate and is often 
recommended when prostate enlargement (benign prostatic hyperplasia) causes 
troublesome symptoms and fails to respond to treatment with medication. 
Mr Os medical records also show that his GP had spoken to Mr O about the TURP 
procedure in December 2017. And had noted that Mr O wasnt keen on undergoing that 
procedure at the time, but would be letting his GP know if he changed his mind. 
So given the above, I think it is reasonable to say that issues surrounding an enlarged 
prostate were evident prior to Mr Os application for travel insurance. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Mapfre to have concluded that Mr O should have disclosed this when he applied for his policy. Further, I note that the emergency procedure Mr O subsequently 
underwent when he became unwell in Turkey was actually that of the transurethral resection 
of the prostate  TURP.
In relation to the mild aortic stenosis, the available evidence shows Mr O had attended A&E 
twice in April 2018 with shortness of breath; had been given a provisional diagnosis of heart 
failure; and had been prescribed medication in relation to this. 
A Cardiology Department Echo Report also shows that Mr O was examined and diagnosed 
with borderline mild aortic stenosis in November 2018. And a letter dictated following an 
appointment Mr O had with a consultant cardiologist on 26 February 2019 also diagnosed 
mild aortic stenosis. 
All of the above occurred prior to Mr Os application for travel insurance. So again, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Mapfre to conclude that Mr O should have disclosed mild aortic 
stenosis either. And given what the available evidence in this case shows, Im not persuaded 
that I can fairly conclude Mr O took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he purchased his policy with Mapfre.
I would like to highlight that none of my findings mean I think Mr O deliberately 
misrepresented his position, and Im aware that Mapfre has treated Mr Os 
misrepresentation as careless. But given the misrepresentations that are apparent within this 
case, I dont think Mapfre had the opportunity to accurately assess the level of risk that Mr O 
might have presented to it when he applied for his policy. 
Mr O thinks Mapfre has used whats happened as a way of getting out of paying his claim, 
and I know that hes said he would have been able to get insurance with Mapfre, albeit at a 
higher price, had he fully disclosed his medical history. But Mapfre has shown this service 
that it wouldnt have offered Mr O a policy on any terms, had accurate information been 
provided to it at the point Mr O applied. 
Considering the remedial action that insurers are entitled to take under CIDRA, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of Mapfre to avoid Mr Os policy and return his premiums in light of the 
above misrepresentations. Mapfres actions put Mr O back in the position that he would have 
been had it not been for that misrepresentation  and that position was one where Mr O 
would not have had a travel insurance policy with Mapfre to claim on.
The compensation 
Mapfre has already acknowledged that the service it provided Mr O fell short. Both sides of 
this complaint are aware of where that happened, so I wont recite every instance of that 
here. But I note there were issues with Mapfre not contacting Mr O, his family members or 
the hospital following Mr Os claim. And I note there were issues relating to Mapfre causing 
some internal delays when handling his claim too. 
Mr O has ongoing concerns about the way he was treated by the hospital in Turkey. But 
Mapfre isnt accountable for that hospital and it would be unfair of me to hold it responsible 
for the way Mr O was treated there. I do appreciate that Mr Os treatment at that hospital has 
been the cause of great upset and frustration for him and his family however. But that isnt 
something I can comment on here, and Mr O will need to pursue his concerns with the 
hospital directly should he wish to do so. 
Mr O has also argued that he could have received a different level of care in Turkey had 
Mapfre been involved sooner. And he has said that he couldve undergone a different course 
of treatment there too, which would have enabled him to return to the UK with medical assistance and receive surgery once home.
However, given the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded that Mr O would have had 
a different experience in Turkey had Mapfre assessed his complaint sooner. I say this 
because even if Mapfre had assessed it sooner, I think it likely that Mapfre would have still 
decided Mr O had misrepresented his position. And so, I think it likely Mapfre would have 
only gone on to avoid Mr Os policy sooner. That means that Mr O would have still been in 
the position he was in when he became unwell  whereby he wasnt entitled to any of the 
cover that Mapfres policy might have provided.
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a businesss 
mistake has had on someone. Ive already acknowledged that Mapfre didnt provide the level 
of service it should have in relation to its contact with Mr O and its progression of his claim. 
And because of that I would expect it to compensate Mr O for the trouble and upset that 
caused. However, Mapfre has already sent Mr O £400 to recognise the level of service it 
provided. And for the reasons given above I think that amount is a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact its mistakes have had on Mr O.
I fully appreciate that Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, and I empathise with his 
current position. But for the reasons given above I will not be interfering with Mapfres 
decision to avoid his policy and compensate him £400. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman