DRN-3805440
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
This complaint is about two credit card accounts Barclaycard provided. The accounts were 
opened in June 2004 and January 2010. On one card the last increase was in August 2012 
and in October 2011 for the other card. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought that Barclaycard ought to have 
realised Mr H simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by the time it 
offered the last increases to the cards detailed above. Barclaycard disagreed with our 
adjudicator, so the complaint has passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Barclaycard should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
It is difficult to assess affordability in this case as Barclaycard hasnt been able to provide 
much account information from the time of the lending decisions. Mr H has supplied a copy 
of his credit report but this doesnt provide much useful insight into events prior to 2010. So, I 
have seen no evidence to support Mr Hs testimony that he was in financial difficulty prior to 
2010 and so I have no reason to uphold the initial lending decisions that the two credit cards 
be taken out. So, I will proceed to think about the two credit increases on the cards post 
2010. 
Mr H has provided us with a copy of his credit report which contains information about the 
performance of his two Barclaycard accounts, which Barclaycard would have provided to the 
credit agency. And that information does cover the period prior to the credit limit increases in 
2011 and 2012.  
Our adjudicator thought that the credit file showed a sustained period of poor management 
of his accounts prior to the last credit limit increase for both cards, such that those lending 
decisions were examples of irresponsible lending. I have reviewed the case in its entirety 
and have reached the same outcome as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought Barclaycard shouldnt have provided 
Mr H with any further credit from October 2011 onwards. Our adjudicator noted that the 
consistent state of arrears on Mr Hs credit card accounts with Barclaycard prior to the credit 
increases. So, it seems most likely that Mr H was making no way in reducing his existing 
balances if he was in arrears on his monthly payments prior to being given more credit. 
Barclaycard have not really provided any argument against the findings made by our 
adjudicator. They have been disappointed that we have found against them on a case they 
feel they have no data to defend themselves with. But the information I have had submitted 
to me from the credit agency was itself provided to them by Barclaycard. And Barclaycard 
has a responsibility to keep information it may need to investigate complaints brought 
against it. 
So, I do not pretend that it is easy to make decisions in cases with little evidence in them. 
But I am required to reach a decision on cases referred to me, and in so doing I have 
considered all the submissions made to me in this case. Having done so, I think that Mr H 
lost out because Barclaycard provided him with further credit on each credit card in October 
2011 and afterwards. In my view, Barclaycards actions unfairly prolonged Mr Hs 
indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that Barclaycard should put things right.
Putting things right
Barclaycard should:
Rework Mr Hs accounts to ensure that from 4 October 2011 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit in place before that date on 
each account (£3,500 on the account opened first and £5,200 on the second 
account) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been 
provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; andIf an outstanding balance remains on each account once these adjustments 
have been made Barclaycard should contact Mr H to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for that account. Once Mr H has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file from 4 
October 2011 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
Barclaycard should also remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file 
from 4 October 2011 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclaycard must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman