The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain on behalf of their limited company.  
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Santander UK Plc handled the closure of their 
business account. They say that the banks decision to remove banking facilities from them  
and the way it did so  has affected their business and personal life.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a business account with Santander. On 3 September 2019 the bank 
blocked the account  meaning Mr and Mrs B were unable to use it during that time. The 
bank wouldnt tell Mr B much about what was happening  only that it was conducting a 
review.
When the bank completed its review, it decided it no longer wanted Mr and Mrs B as 
customers and closed their account on 18 September 2019. And sent them a cheque for the 
closing balance. 
Mr B complained to the bank about the lack of information. Mr B said as a result of the 
banks actions they werent able to run their business and pay staff wages. Hes also 
unhappy that Santander havent provided a proper explanation why it blocked and closed 
their account. And they suspect that the bank acted on malicious information when it closed 
the account. Mr Bs also unhappy that when he called Santander he was placed on hold and 
wasnt assigned a case handler.
When Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service one of our investigators 
considered it. He said Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed and closed 
Mr and Mrs Bs account. And had acted in line with the terms and conditions and relevant 
regulations. He also explained that the bank didnt have to provide an explanation why it had 
decided to review and close their account.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr B has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint. 
I appreciate that hes upset that Santander blocked and closed his account. I can also 
understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it 
difficult for him to run his business. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied 
that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain 
why.
DRN-1970703All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts. Santander has said that Mr and Mrs Bs access to their account was blocked to 
meet these requirements.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Santander was within its rights 
to review Mr and Mrs Bs account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that 
review. Santander also werent obliged to tell Mr and Mrs B why it was carrying out a review 
of his account  as much as theyd like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require it do so. The terms and conditions also permit Santander to review an account. So, I 
cant say the bank has done anything wrong by not providing this information to Mr and Mrs 
B.
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning business account for about two weeks wasnt 
helpful.  And wouldve made things quite difficult. So, I can understand why Mr and Mrs B 
found this experience with Santander stressful and upsetting. But banks have a legal 
obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im 
satisfied that Santander was complying with its obligations when it blocked and reviewed 
their account. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr and Mrs B inconvenience, I cant say 
Santander treated them unfairly. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr and Mrs Bs account. As the investigator 
explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. Mr and Mrs Bs 
business account was blocked from 3 September 2019; they were unable to gain access to 
the funds in it until mid - September 2019. Whilst it was formally closed on 18 September 
2019 (without notice), I believe that it was effectively closed on 3 September 2019  since 
after that time Mr and Mrs B couldnt use it. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view 
that wasnt unreasonable. And the bank acted line with the account terms and relevant 
regulations. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed the account.
I note too that Mr B says he believes Santander has relied on malicious information to close 
his account. And have been pressured by others with a vendetta against him to take the 
action it did. These are serious allegations. And I want to assure Mr and Mrs B that I havent 
seen any evidence that Santander has acted inappropriately when it decided to close Mr and 
Mrs Bs account.  
Mr Bs also unhappy about the service he received when he called the bank to find out what 
was happening with his account. In particular, hes upset that he had to listen to music whilst 
he was on hold. And that the bank didnt assign him a case handler. But as the investigator 
has already explained, we cant tell a business to change it processes. 
In summary, for the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied that the bank has treated Mr and 
Mrs B fairly.
My final decision
My final decisions is that I dont require Santander UK to do anything further to resolve Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  to accept or reject 
my decision before 10 August 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman