DRN-3862916
The complaint
Mrs B complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RL) acted 
unfairly when it did not accept she should be the beneficiary of her ex-husbands personal 
pension upon his death.
What happened
Mrs B married Mr B in 2009. They were also partners in their own business.
In January 2011, when he was aged 64, Mr B opened a personal pension plan (PPP) with 
RL. In the application form he nominated his then wife, Mrs B, to be the beneficiary of the 
plan value lump sum upon his death.
In August 2016 Mr and Mrs B divorced, but they remained business partners and continued 
to share the marital home. 
Very sadly, on 5 February 2022 Mr B died. Once informed, RL began the process of 
determining the beneficiary(s) of his PPP. Mrs B initially told RL that she didnt wish to be 
considered as a beneficiary and wasnt financially dependent on Mr B, but she quickly 
changed her mind on these points and told RL that she should be considered.
But as a result of its enquiries, RL, in its role as trustee of the PPP, decided that Mr Bs five 
children from a previous marriage should be declared the beneficiaries of his pension.
Mrs B complained to RL about this decision. She thought that as she was the nominated 
beneficiary recorded on the plan RL should respect Mr Bs wishes. But RL didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said, in its complaint final response dated 18 August 2022, that as trustees of 
the PPP it was able to use its discretion when deciding to whom the benefits of the PPP 
were paid. And that having considered all the information it had about the circumstances of 
all the potential beneficiaries, and having considered the additional information it had been 
given by Mrs B, it confirmed it still considered Mr Bs children to be the rightful beneficiaries 
of Mr Bs PPP.
But Mrs B didnt accept this so complained to our Service. She couldnt understand how her 
status as named beneficiary on the policy could be rejected by the trustees.
One of our Investigators considered all the available evidence but didnt think Mrs Bs 
complaint should be upheld. He thought that RL, in its position as trustees, had discretion to 
decide who should receive the benefits from Mr Bs pension. And he thought RL had used its 
discretion fairly. 
Mrs B didnt agree with this assessment. She pointed to the repeated wording on RL pension 
statements and its website which showed the value of a PPP would normally be paid to the 
family or the person nominated when the plan was set up. And she thought RLs assertion, 
that because they had divorced in 2016 she was no longer to be considered as beneficiary, 
was false. She thought this because Mr B had clearly updated the beneficiary section after 
their divorce, maintaining that he wished her to be beneficiary, as she was described in it as 
Ex-wife. She said that she and Mr B had complex financial arrangements, and following his 
terminal diagnosis they had put various financial arrangements in place to simplify the 
drafting of his will. And she found RLs interpretation of the fact that she was omitted from 
the will offensive and hurtful. 
Mrs Bs submissions were reviewed, along with all of the evidence, by a second investigator, 
who also thought her complaint shouldnt be upheld. They thought that the evidence showed 
RLs decision about who it thought should be the beneficiaries of the PPP had not been 
made arbitrarily nor had it treated Mrs B unfairly.
Mrs B responded with a considerable amount of information about the personal, business 
and financial links that she and Mr B had following their divorce. She said, in summary:
Mr B had had no awareness that trustees had any discretion to override his 
nominated beneficiary;
Mr B had clearly wanted her to continue as beneficiary after their divorce as she had 
been designated as such and described as his Ex-wife.
While she had initially told RL that she didnt wish to be considered as a beneficiary 
and that she was not financially dependent on Mr B, she had sent this whilst in a 
state of overwhelming emotional upheaval and chaos, and thought that this would be 
one less thing she would have to deal with;
She had misunderstood the term financial dependence. She had thought this related 
to a court order following their divorce, but in fact her and Mr Bs finances were 
inextricably linked and very much dependent on the continuation of their business;
RL had disregarded both Mr Bs beneficiary nomination and also his wishes as laid 
out in his Will;
The percentage of shares they both held in their business was adjusted to reflect that 
she would receive the benefit of his PPP once their business was sold.  
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs B and the position shes found herself in. I 
understand that she feels RL have acted arbitrarily and unfairly as she believes her ex-
husband intended her to be the beneficiary of his personal pension. But Im afraid there is 
nothing that I can do to help her in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
The remit of this service is to consider if RL was able to use its discretion in deciding who the 
beneficiaries of the late Mr Bs pension should be, and whether, in its use of this discretion, it 
has acted unfairly.
And having considered all the evidence, I agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigators, for broadly the same reasons.
Having reviewed all the documentation for the pension I am satisfied that RL did, in its 
position as trustees of the plan, have discretion to decide who the value of his pension would 
be paid to. Within the pension application form, completed by Mr B, in section 6 Distribution 
of benefits in the event of death is a part titled 1. Lump sum death benefit. Subject to your discretion, I would like you to consider paying my Plan Value as a lump sum to:
So its likely that Mr B was aware, when filling out this form, that RL would have the ultimate 
decision as to whom his pension fund would be paid in the event of his death. And this 
discretion is the normal practice of trustees of pension plans and is set out in RLs rules. It is 
also, as Mrs B has pointed out, on RLs website:
The value of your plan will be paid as a tax-free lump sum, normally to your family or to the 
person you nominated when your plan was set up.
So, having satisfied myself that RL, as trustees of the pension, was able to use its discretion 
in deciding who the beneficiaries should be, I need to decide if it used this discretion fairly. 
It is not disputed that when Mr B took out his pension with RL he was married to Mrs B. And 
from looking at the application form he completed, I can see he nominated his then wife, 
Mrs B, as the desired recipient of 100% of his lump sum death benefit. 
And I can also see from a copy of Mr Bs pension statement dated 12 January 2022 that he 
wished his retirement savings to be passed to Mrs B, who was described as his Ex-wife. I 
cannot know for certain, but this leads me to believe, on the balance of probability that Mr B, 
at some point after 2016, had updated RL of his divorce and that Mrs B was still his 
nominated beneficiary. 
When Mr B died, on 5 February 2022, RL was informed of his passing. The executor, who 
Im told was a longstanding friend of Mr B, completed the bereavement information form, 
which he sent to RL along with a copy of Mr Bs Will, on 23 March 2022. In a note at the 
conclusion of the form he wrote the following:
I think if [Mr B] was here to ask, I think his wish would be for the proceeds of the policy to 
form part of his estate and to be distributed in accordance with his will.
The executor was aware, when making this statement, that Mrs B was not named as a 
beneficiary in Mr Bs Will.
As Mrs B was currently shown on the pension plan as Mr Bs nominated beneficiary, RL 
contacted her by email on 26 May 2022 to ask if she wished to be considered as a 
beneficiary of Mr Bs pension plan and whether she was financially dependent on him. RL 
also asked if Mrs B was the mother of his five children and whether they lived with her. 
Mrs B replied to this email on the same day informing RL that she did not wish to be 
considered as a beneficiary for the plan and that she was not financially dependent upon 
Mr B. She also confirmed she was not the mother of his children.
The executor contacted RL on 10 June 2022 to say that Mrs B had waived her entitlement to 
be considered as a beneficiary. Due to this the executor asked RL if it would be possible for 
the pension to be paid to the estate.
But tax rules mean that personal pensions are treated as being outside of the deceased 
persons estate. So, RL spoke to the executor on 20 June 2022 and explained that it would 
look to contact the five children as they were next in line to be beneficiaries. 
On 21 June 2022 Mrs B wrote to RL. She said the executor had told her RL were unable to 
pay the value of the pension to the estate so were considering his children to be the 
beneficiaries. She said she had reconsidered her position and now wished to exercise her 
right as a beneficiary under his policy and receive the funds due. This was because she 
didnt think Mr B wouldve been happy with the funds going to his children with whom hed had no contact in nearly 40 years.
In coming to a fair decision, I would expect RL to have taken into account all the available 
information. Although I understand Mrs Bs assertion that she was described as Ex-wife in 
the nomination part of the pension statement, and this shows Mr Bs wish that she should be 
his pension beneficiary, this couldve been updated at any point from 2016 onwards. So, I 
have no way of telling if this remained a fair representation of what Mr B wished at the time 
of his death as relationships can change over time. So, although this is significant evidence 
which Id expect RL to consider, RL needed to take into account everything, and I find the 
bereavement information form completed by the executor in the month following Mr Bs 
death particularly persuasive. This was completed by someone independent and who 
seemingly knew Mr B very well, so I think it gives a useful insight into what he thought Mr B 
wouldve wanted. And this was to distribute the funds from his pension in line with the Will 
which he completed just before his death. And Mrs B was not named as a beneficiary in this 
Will, but his five children were.
Mrs B has told our service that she and Mr B had discussed their linked finances prior to his 
death, and had arranged the percentage share of their jointly, and previously equally owned 
business, to take into account that she would receive the pension benefits. And shes 
provided evidence to show the share distribution, which was amended on 26 January 2022, 
gave Mr B an increased 67/33 majority share. But RL were not aware of this information 
when it came to its decision, our Service sent it to RL to consider. 
Having done so, RL has said it did not affect its decision. It said that Mrs B had made it clear 
from the outset that she was not financially dependent on Mr B and also did not wish to be 
considered as a beneficiary of the pension plan. And it thought the subsequent reasons 
given by Mrs B conflicted with her initial statements. 
Ive closely considered the additional information sent in by Mrs B, and although it does 
suggest that Mr B and Mrs B were discussing their business links just prior to his death, I 
dont think it makes RLs continued stance unfair. Ill explain why.
Although the evidence does show that the percentage of the business owned by Mr B was 
increased just prior to his death, Im not persuaded that this shows it was done so to reflect 
Mrs Bs status as his pension beneficiary. I accept there was a change in the proportions of 
the business owned by Mr and Mrs B, but Ive not seen sufficient evidence to support 
Mrs Bs testimony that shows it was changed to reflect Mr Bs expectation she would be the 
beneficiary of his pension. And even if this was the case, I remain of the view that RL had 
discretion to determine the beneficiaries of this policy and it did so fairly for the reasons 
explained above. 
I understand that Mrs B will be very disappointed by this outcome, but Im afraid that as a 
result of all of the evidence Ive seen, I do not uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman