DRN-3816648
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his account.
Background
In August 2022, Mr M opened a current account with Barclays. A few days later, Barclays 
sent him a letter telling him that it was closing his account with immediate effect. Mr M 
subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
As Mr M remained dissatisfied, Mr M referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards    
Mr M and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr M, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And, after completing its final checks, 
Barclays decided it didnt wish to have Mr M as a customer. 
Mr M has since been told that his account was closed because, amongst other things, 
Barclays saw a fraud marker another financial institution had recorded against him. I 
understand that Mr M is aware of this marker, the reasons for it as well as the financial 
institution responsible for recording it. Mr M says that the marker shouldnt make a difference 
as it will be removed in a few months. 
However, it is up to an individual bank to decide the circumstances and parameters within 
which it offers (or continues to offer) a customer an account. And, in this case, Im satisfied 
that Barclays reasonably reacted to the information it saw about the fraud marker recorded 
against Mr M and that it was entitled to take the course of action it did. Ive also seen that   
Mr M has argued these checks ought to have been carried before the account was opened. 
But it is up to Barclays to decide what steps it decides to take at the relevant stages when 
opening accounts. 
So I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong here. And while Mr M might have gone on 
to experience inconvenience and disappointment, Im satisfied that none of this occurred 
because Barclays acted unfairly or did something it wasnt entitled to do. Furthermore as   
Mr M has been told what he needs to do to receive the funds that remained in his account at 
the time it was closed, I leave it up to him to contact Barclays to provide the information that 
has been requested from him.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards 
Mr M and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why 
Barclays was entitled to close his account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman