DRN-3017725
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his bank account. Hes also 
unhappy about the overall level of service he received from Nationwide. He says this caused 
him trouble and upset and he wants the bank to pay him compensation. 
What happened
Mr B had an account with Nationwide. In April 2020, Nationwide blocked Mr Bs account 
while they carried out a review. This meant Mr B couldnt access the money in his account. 
Mr B contacted Nationwide on several occasions to try and find out what was happening with 
his account. The bank explained to Mr B that under the terms and conditions of the account 
it was entitled to review a customers account and ask him for information about how he was 
using the account.
Following its review, Nationwide decided to close Mr Bs account. On 21 April 2020, it sent 
Mr B a letter giving him two months notice. And it told him he could access the money in his 
account by going into a branch with the letter, his bank card and some identification.
Mr B went into a branch to try and withdraw his balance. But Nationwide told him he needed 
to provide proof that he was entitled to the money in the account before it would release any 
funds to him. Mr B was unhappy about this and said Nationwide hadnt made this clear to 
him in its letter. So, hed had a wasted trip to branch. 
On 27 April 2020, Mr B telephoned Nationwide to find out what he needed to show the bank 
to get access to his funds. Nationwide explained what he needed to provide and on 29 April 
2020, Mr B gave the bank all the information it needed to show he was entitled to the money 
in his account. Nationwide were happy with the information and said it would send Mr B a 
cheque for his balance. On 4 May 2020, Mr B hadnt received the cheque, so he called 
Nationwide to find out what was happening. But Nationwide couldnt give him a time frame 
for when hed receive the cheque. Mr B complained and explained that he needed his funds 
and was relying on his credit card to pay for everyday expenses, which cost him money in 
fees. 
On 7 May 2020, Nationwide wrote to Mr B. It apologised for not giving Mr B clear information 
and his wasted trip to the branch. And it said that it should have looked at the information 
Mr B provided quicker and handled his calls better. It paid Mr B £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset hed been caused. The letter also told Mr B that although it had arranged 
for a cheque to be issued, he was able to go into branch and collect his funds. Nationwide 
posted a cheque to Mr B on 14 May 2020. 
 
Mr B wasnt happy with Nationwides response. So, he brought his complaint to our service. 
He said hed been caused a great deal of worry and stress because he couldnt access his 
money. And hed called the bank more than 20 times to try and sort things out, each time 
having to spend around an hour on the phone explaining things, and hed had to rely on his 
credit cards to get by which cost him money. So, he didnt think the compensation offered by 
Nationwide adequately reflected the amount of trouble and upset hed suffered.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He said Nationwide were entitled to 
review Mr Bs account and ask him for information. He also thought Nationwide had done 
enough to put things right. Mr B disagreed. He said the amount of compensation paid by the 
bank isnt fair considering everything he went through.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Nationwide has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take 
certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict 
customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out a review. And ask for 
information about fund into an account.
 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Nationwide was complying with their legal 
and regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr Bs account in April 2020. Its was entitled 
to review the account under the terms and conditions. So, whilst I appreciate the review 
caused Mr B inconvenience, I cant fairly say Nationwide did anything wrong when it decided 
to review Mr Bs account.
 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Bs account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless, theres a very good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. Nationwide wrote to 
Mr B on 21 April 2020 giving him two months notice. So, its was entitled to close the 
account as its already done. 
Turning to the issue of the service Nationwide provided Mr B during the period it was 
reviewing his account. Nationwide sent Mr B a letter on 21 April 2021 telling him hed be able 
to access his funds by going into branch. But this wasnt right. Mr B went into a branch and 
was told that in order to get his money hed need to show he was entitled to the funds. So, 
Mr B had a wasted trip, which was time consuming and no doubt confusing for Mr B as he 
was under the impression, from Nationwides letter, hed be leaving the branch with his 
money. I think if Nationwide had explained to Mr B what he needed to do its likely he 
wouldve provided what was needed when he went into the branch. As he did so on 29 April 
2020, after the bank had spoken to him on 27 April 2020. 
On 29 April Nationwide told Mr B that it would issue him a cheque for his balance. But Mr B 
had to chase the bank to find out when he would receive it. Nationwide said it couldnt give 
Mr B a timeframe and didnt issue a cheque until 14 May 2020  which was more than two 
weeks later. Its not clear why Nationwide took this long. And Ive no doubt waiting for a 
cheque to arrive was frustrating for Mr B. But I note that the bank did write to Mr B on 7 May 
2020, to let him know that despite a cheque being arranged, he was able to go into a branch 
and collect his money. So, it, appears, Mr B couldve accessed his money quicker, rather than waiting for a cheque to arrive in the post as he did. Mr B hasnt explained why he didnt 
do this especially given what Mr B has said about circumstances and how anxious he was to 
gain access to his funds.
I can see that Mr B made a number of phone calls to Nationwide to try and sort out access to 
his money. Nationwide accepts it should have handled Mr Bs calls better. And said it hadnt 
updated its notes properly each time Mr B called, which no doubt caused Mr B 
inconvenience and made an already difficult situation much more stressful. 
Overall, I think a more reasonable service from Nationwide would have meant Mr B would 
have found things easier and he wouldnt have suffered the trouble and upset hes been 
caused.  Nationwide has accepted it  gave Mr B misleading information when it wrote to him 
on 21 April 2020 and took too long to send out a cheque for his balance. Nationwide has 
apologised and paid Mr B £150 compensation. I understand that Mr B wants more 
compensation. But I think £150 is fair. We cant award compensation to punish financial 
businesses. Its often a modest amount. In this case, £150 is more than a token amount and 
acknowledges that Nationwide could have done things better here. So, Im not going to ask 
Nationwide to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to ask Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman