DRN-4197415
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the accuracy of the records kept by Investment Funds Direct 
Limited (IFDL) regarding their general investment accounts.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T each have general investment accounts with IFDL, managed via a third-party 
adviser. Around 2018 Mr T became concerned with the accuracy of the annual tax reports, 
compiled by IFDL, for Mrs Ts account. He looked into this more fully in 2020 and IFDL 
admitted there were errors and issued a revised report for Mrs T. IFDL also introduced a 
change to their system to ensure correct reporting going forward. They offered to refund 
three months of fees, amounting to £1,317.87, and £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy as there were other areas which they felt remained 
incorrect  in particular whether IFDL held full records of income distributions in their 
accounts. Mr T didnt have access to all the information available and so was concerned 
over whether IFDL were keeping proper records. 
Specifically, he wanted to know whether exact records are kept of deemed income on 
accumulation funds and liabilities created by equalisation adjustments and applied to each 
individuals account - or whether this information is simply gathered from various sources 
when needed. He suspected it was the latter, which he felt was a riskier way of keeping 
records. IFDL reassured Mr T that they had a robust record keeping process, but declined to 
go into detail about it. Mr T felt that IFDL did not provide a sufficient explanation for this 
question, and so raised his complaint with our service. He also became frustrated with the 
time it took for IFDL to provide answers to his questions.
An investigator at our service explained that we are unable to audit IFDLs records, nor are 
we able to direct them to change their record keeping processes. Unhappy with this reply, Mr 
T said, in summary:
Hed spoken to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about it, but they referred him 
to our service.
There has been a cost to him and Mrs T in terms of their time spent identifying the 
problem and raising to with IFDL. Theyve also had to resubmit tax returns to HMRC 
to correct the position, causing inconvenience and embarrassment.
The way these records are kept leads to greater chance of error and is a weaker way 
of holding the data.
IFDL refused to answer his questions about where and how the data is stored and 
hes not convinced their control over the data is robust  because if it was, the 
problem he identified would not have existed.  
 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider whether IFDL has treated Mr and Mrs T fairly and reasonably in the 
way theyve administered their accounts. Though I know Mr T has already spoken to the 
FCA and been referred back to our service, I want to begin by explaining the difference in 
our powers, in order to establish what Im able to do and award in this complaint.
The purpose of our service is to resolve disputes between a complainant and the respondent 
firm. Where I find a firm has done something wrong, my aim is to make an award for any 
financial loss caused, or a direction, with the aim of putting the complainant back in the 
position theyd be in, if the error hadnt occurred. Im also able to make awards for the 
distress and inconvenience a firm has caused. As part of this dispute resolution service, we 
rely on the parties to the complaint to send us the evidence required in order to look into the 
concerns raised. We don't carry out audits of a firm's systems and we dont routinely visit a 
firms offices, or gain access to their systems ourselves, to investigate complaints. 
We are separate from the FCA, and we arent privy to the day-to-day investigations they 
carry out into a firms activities. My understanding is that the FCA, when made aware of 
concerns by complainants or our service, doesnt necessarily release any information about 
what theyve done with those concerns to the public in general, or the people that raised 
them.
I appreciate that Mr T has been frustrated by IFDLs refusal to answer his questions about 
the way in which they record and store the data in question. It appears that Mr Ts goal in 
asking these questions is to persuade them to change the way its stored (if indeed its 
stored in the way he feels carries more risk for error). 
Im satisfied that the way IFDL stores and retrieves data is at their discretion, provided it 
complies with the various regulations and keeps the data safe, ensuring its accessible when 
needed. I dont think IFDL need to divulge the detail of how they store it to Mr and Mrs T, 
again provided its safely stored, and they can answer Mr and Mrs Ts questions about their 
investments. Its commercially sensitive information. Ive seen no evidence that the data isnt 
safe, or that IFDL has been unable to reconcile records as needed  other than the error 
theyve already rectified. So, I dont think the refusal to answer this question is unfair or 
unreasonable.  
Its undisputed that IFDL did report incorrect information in at least one of the annual tax 
reports for Mrs Ts account  and that this appears to have only came to light because of Mr 
and Mrs Ts work. Theres been no direct financial loss because of this and IFDL have 
already reissued the statement with the correct information. 
So, I need to consider an award for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs T. 
As part of this, Ive considered the fact Mrs T has had to deal with HMRC processes to 
ensure the tax shes declared and paid is correct. Ive also taken into account the time IFDL 
took between Mr T raising these questions and providing him with a final answer. IFDL has 
already offered £200 as compensation, plus a refund of three months fees for the delays and 
level of service provided. So, in total, IFDL have offered just over £1,500 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by this situation. 
I think this is a more than fair amount to make up for the time it took and the impact this had. 
I note Mr T has said it doesnt go far enough to compensate him for the time hes spent 
investigating and discussing this issue. However, the compensation we award isnt designed to pay someone an hourly rate or similar for the time theyve spent complaining in that way. 
Rather I consider the overall impact caused by the issue, including how the firm reacted to 
minimise the impact. 
Here the issue was fixed once it was brought to IFDLs attention. Though it took IFDL a long 
time to answer Mr Ts questions, the answer to the question at the heart of his complaint was 
always going to be one he disagreed with  that IFDL wouldnt divulge the detail of their 
background systems and records. So, the impact of the delay was simply that it took IFDL 
longer than it should have to give Mr T an answer he wasnt happy with.   
I note Mr Ts worries that there are likely to be future errors here due to the way the data is 
stored. I dont consider that the presence of one error  which has been identified and fixed 
 necessarily means that there are others, or that there will be. Unfortunately, its not 
possible for any firm to be completely infallible, regardless of the way they operate their 
business. If further errors do occur, then Mr and Mrs T would be entitled to raise complaints 
about them. In this case, I don't think it would be fair or reasonable of me to make an award 
for what might happen in the future to Mr and Mrs T. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the amount IFDL have offered is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
Investment Funds Direct Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 plus a refund of 
three months worth of fees to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my decision is that Investment Funds Direct Limited should pay Mr and Mrs T £1,517.87.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman