DRN-3277353
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc recorded a late payment on his credit file after he 
applied for a payment holiday. 
What happened
Mr H has explained that following the lockdown in March 2020 he applied online for a 
payment holiday in respect of his Santander credit card. Mr H has told us he cancelled the 
direct debit instruction as he thought the application had been approved. 
Santander has explained it has no record of receiving a payment holiday application from 
Mr H. 
As regular payments werent received Santander took the step of recording a late payment 
on Mr Hs credit file for June 2020. Mr H says that when he found the arrears information on 
his credit file he took quick action to make a payment towards the credit card. 
Mr H complained about the missed payment on his credit file. Mr H has told us he didnt 
receive any contact from Santander about missed payments during this time. Santander 
didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and didnt offer to amend his credit file. 
Mr H referred the matter to this service and it was looked at by an adjudicator. They said 
manual payments to the account meant only one missed payment was recorded. The 
investigator thought Santander had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr H asked to appeal and said he believed a software issue had led to his 
application going wrong. As Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H told our investigator that he followed a similar approach with various lenders around 
the time he applied for a Santander payment holiday. Mr H has also explained that no one 
got in contact about the missed payments so he was unaware of the issue. Looking at 
Mr Hs account history and taking everything hes told us into account, I dont doubt that he 
believed a payment holiday had been agreed. But I have to take both parties cases into 
account when reaching my decision. 
Whilst I accept Mr H thought a payment holiday was in place, I think Santander makes some 
reasonable points. It has confirmed theres no record of a payment holiday application and 
has pointed out no confirmation was ever sent to Mr H. In addition, Santander has pointed 
out it makes monthly statements available to Mr H online and they showed payments were 
still required during the period in question. 
I appreciate Mr H thought the application was successful, but given he didnt receive any 
confirmation to that effect from Santander there was a risk to cancelling the direct debit 
instruction. Mr H has queried why the situation didnt come up sooner. As Ive said above, 
Im satisfied the statements Santander sent showed the payments required each month. And 
looking at the account history, manual payments Mr H made to the credit card meant the first 
full missed payment was in June 2020, in line with the information recorded on his credit file. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H but I havent found that Santander made mistakes with his 
credit card. Im satisfied Santander didnt approve a payment holiday application from Mr H. 
In addition, Im satisfied Santander sent Mr H details of how much he needed to pay each 
month. As payments werent made in line with the credit card terms, Im satisfied 
Santanders decision to record a missed payment on Mr Hs credit file was reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman