DRN-3453354
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with letters received form HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First 
Direct Bank) regarding the overdraft on their current account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold a current account with First Direct, in late 2021 it had been in an arranged 
overdraft for an extended period of time. In December 2021 a large payment was made into 
the account which cleared the overdraft and bought the account back into credit. 
On 3 February 2022 Mr and Mrs S received a letter from First Direct saying it had noticed 
they had been using their overdraft a lot, and asking them to get in touch if they needed any 
assistance. This letter explained that First Direct would be in touch again if it didnt hear from 
Mr and Mrs S.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt respond to First Directs initial letter, it sent a further letter on 2 March 
2022 reiterating that they should get in touch if they were experiencing financial difficulties. 
Mr and Mrs S were very unhappy to have received these letters, theyve said they found the 
wording of the letters upsetting given that they had already repaid their overdraft some 
weeks before the letters were received. Mr S called First Direct to question why they had got 
the letters and First Direct explained they had been triggered when Mr and Mrs S account 
had spent more than 85% of a three-month period overdrawn. First Direct also apologised 
for any upset caused by the letters and said it would take Mr and Mrs S feedback about the 
letters on board.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and so they referred their complaint to our service. One of 
our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs S complaint but did not think that First Direct had 
done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs S did not agree, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that, given they had recently repaid the overdraft on their account, it would have 
been frustrating for Mr and Mrs S to receive the letter in February 2022. And I dont doubt 
that this may have caused some upset, particularly when another similar letter was received 
in March 2022. I also appreciate that Mr and Mrs S spent time calling First Direct to raise 
their concerns.
But First Direct has explained why the letters were sent, and I think their explanation is 
reasonable. First Direct is required to ensure that it offers appropriate assistance to 
customers who are relying heavily on their overdrafts. And while I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs S had repaid their overdraft by the time the letters went out, that doesnt change the fact 
that they had been using it a lot previously. And First Direct wouldnt have known whether 
the large credit they had received was for another purpose and might ultimately be spent 
sending the account back into an overdrawn position. 
So I dont think First Direct did anything wrong in writing to Mr and Mrs S to ask if they 
needed any assistance or advice. I also note that First Direct has nonetheless apologised for 
any upset the letters caused, and has said it will take on board Mr and Mrs S feedback, and 
I think that is an appropriate response in the circumstances. 
We all experience some inconvenience and upset from time to time, but thats not to say 
compensation is always warranted, and having considered this complaint I dont think it is 
here. So with all this in mind, Im satisfied that First Direct has acted appropriately here and I 
therefore wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman