DRN-4318110
The complaint
The estate of Mr F complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) wont refund the money 
Mr F lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
One of Mr Fs sons, Mr F2, has explained that Mr F had health concerns dating back to 2011 
which affected his short-term memory. Between 2015 and 2016, Mr F made a number of 
payments from his YBS accounts in relation to a wine investment. Mr F2 found records of 
this at Mr Fs home in early 2017. He was concerned about the amount Mr F had paid and 
the legitimacy of the investment. When he asked his father about the payments, Mr F didnt 
seem to know much about them. 
There are records that Mr F, supported by his family, contacted YBS about the payments in 
January 2017. According to its notes, YBS attempted recovery but explained it couldnt 
guarantee this would succeed as Mr F had confirmed he wanted to make the payments at 
the time. There was also discussion around Mr F pursuing the matter with the police and 
Action Fraud, and about his vulnerabilities. 
Sadly, Mr F died in May 2020. In November 2021, YBS received a complaint from Mr Fs 
estate (of which Mr F2 is the executor) about the payments made to the wine investment  
which they think was a scam. YBS said it wouldnt look into a complaint about the payments 
made over six years ago, as that had been raised too late. And it didnt accept liability for the 
more recent scam payments. 
Unhappy with YBSs response, the estate referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think we could consider the payments made prior to November 2015. For 
the later payments, which the investigator was satisfied we could consider, he wasnt 
persuaded YBS ought to have uncovered the scam and prevented the loss at the time. 
The estate has appealed the investigators outcome. It doesnt feel YBS did enough to 
protect Mr F, particularly given his circumstances. The case has therefore been passed to 
me. Ive already issued a decision explaining we cant consider the payments made prior to 
November 2015  but we can consider the payments made from then on. And that is what I 
will now address within this decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to direct YBS to refund the loss being claimed for the scam 
payments made from November 2015 onwards. Ill explain why.
Ill briefly cover which payments Im considering  as this was covered in detail by the 
investigator, and I cant see either party has disputed what he said:
Date Amount Payment type
January 2016 £6,000 Faster Payment 
February 2016 £6,000 Faster Payment 
May 2016 £4,000 Faster Payment 
June 2016 £4,500 Faster Payment 
August 2016 £3,000 Cash withdrawal
For the faster payments, the recipients make it clear that the payments relate to the 
supposed wine investment. For the cash withdrawal, there are records from when Mr F 
made the payment in branch which show he told YBS it was for the wine investment. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs), which are the relevant 
regulations that apply to these payments, firms are expected to execute authorise payment 
instructions without undue delay. Given this duty, Mr F would generally be liable for 
payments he authorises.
While its not disputed that Mr F was scammed, its also not in dispute that he made these 
payments. And so, under the PSRs, he is presumed liable for these payments in the first 
instance. 
But there are some situations where we believe that firmstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment.  If YBS 
failed to identify and respond appropriately to an indication Mr F was at risk from fraud, and 
we think that failure likely affected his loss, then we might reasonably hold it liable for the 
resulting loss. 
YBS has provided notes made at the time of each payment. These show it checked the 
reason for the payment  and Mr F explained he was paying into a long-running investment 
with a company he had paid before. 
While the payments were sizeable, by the time of the transactions I can consider, Mr F had a 
history of making similar-size payments to the company. I think that has a bearing on what 
we would reasonably expect from YBS. As it makes the potential fraud risk appear less 
obvious and concerning.
Ive not seen anything to suggest YBS had been told  or should otherwise have known  
about Mr Fs vulnerabilities at the time of the January 2016 payment. So I consider it 
reasonable that YBS processed the payment, understanding it was going to a trusted 
account.
By the time of the February 2016 payment, YBS knew more about Mr Fs circumstances. 
The notes suggest it was aware his vulnerabilities, and took those into account, when asking 
him about the payment. The notes also suggest Mr F provided paperwork to the branch staff 
in relation to the payment request  which would reasonably have helped alleviate any fraud 
concerns.While YBS was aware of Mr Fs vulnerabilities, than in itself wouldnt and shouldnt cause it 
to refuse his payment requests. Particularly as there is nothing from the time to suggest that 
he appeared confused or unaware of what he was doing. So again, I consider it reasonable 
that YBS processed this payment.
For similar reasons, it doesnt seem the May 2016 payment appeared uncharacteristic or 
otherwise concerning. Again I consider it reasonable, based on the records we have, that 
YBS processed the payment. The same goes for the June 2016, although Id note there is 
also an (admittedly limited, given the time thats passed) indication that scam risks were 
discussed at that point  and F confirmed he was still happy to proceed. 
Regarding the August 2016 payment, the records show YBS had concerns about Mr Fs 
vulnerabilities, and that he didnt have an invoice for that particular payment. So that could 
indicate it should perhaps have done more to satisfy itself about the risk. However, Im not 
convinced that, even if YBSs questioning fell short, further suitable questioning would have 
prevented the loss stemming from this payment. 
Overall, the records dont persuade me that YBS could and should have uncovered the 
scam at this point. This appears to have been a sophisticated and long-running scam. Given 
Mr Fs history with the company, it seems unlikely to me he would have been deterred by 
further warnings, as he was likely very persuaded by this point that his funds were being 
genuinely invested. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for the estate. And Im conscious that Mr F2 is clearly 
motivated by his concerns about his vulnerable father being exploited by a cruel scam. But 
my role here is to decide, on balance, whether there are grounds to hold YBS liable for the 
loss. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded any failings by YBS likely caused, or 
contributed to, the losses being claimed. As such, Im not satisfied its fair to expect it to 
refund the estate for these payments.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman