DRN-3297632
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC hasnt fairly dealt with a claim she 
brought against it under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mrs S had a dispute with A arising from a contract she entered into that was funded with her 
Tesco credit card. The contract in question provided for A to apply charges in relation to the 
release of a motorhome that was the subject of a chattel mortgage under an agreement 
between Mrs S and another company (B). A had acquired Bs rights and interest under that 
agreement following Bs entry into administration.
Mrs S says she paid the charges imposed by A as she needed the motorhome to be 
released. But she didnt agree with them and subsequently contacted Tesco to seek 
recovery of the money shed paid  some £3,260. In doing so, she referenced that her 
agreement with B didnt permit charges to be made in association with releasing the 
motorhome into her possession.
Tesco declined to reimburse Mrs S. It initially said it wasnt liable to her, on the basis that the 
way the transaction with A was constructed fell outside the requirements for a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The payment hadnt been made 
directly to A  instead, it had gone via a different company (C). Tesco subsequently revised 
that position, but still didnt accept Mrs Ss claim. The bank said there was no breach of 
contract in relation to the fees Mrs S paid for release of the motorhome, as A had provided 
the service funded by her payment.
Tesco also said it couldnt consider the arrangements Mrs S had made with B, as it hadnt 
been involved in funding that agreement. Rather, the bank said it focused solely on the 
contract entered when making a purchase using its card. Mrs S remained unhappy with 
Tescos response and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator found there was an association between A and C that amounted to the 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship necessary to proceed with a section 75 claim. He didnt 
think the available evidence indicated a breach of contract by A. But noting evidence from 
the insolvency practitioner that dealt with Bs administration and the transfer of business to 
A, he was persuaded that A had misrepresented its position to Mrs S such that she was 
induced to make payment to it such that her claim might be successful.
The investigator proposed that Tesco reimburse Mrs S for the fees shed paid, together with 
interest. He also considered it appropriate that Tesco pay Mrs S £150 compensation to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience she experienced in her efforts to resolve matters.
Tesco responded to say it disagrees that A misrepresented the contract. It said for that to be 
the case, A would have had to state that there were no additional costs, and that this wasnt 
what had happened. It asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco has acknowledged that it was wrong to tell Mrs S at the outset that she couldnt bring 
a claim under section 75. The bank did revise that position fairly promptly, but for the sake of 
completeness Ive set out the relevant considerations here.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 makes provision for connected lender liability in specific 
circumstances, set out in section 75. There are several criteria that must be met for a 
successful claim against the creditor (or lender), which include that:
the agreement with the lender is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within 
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA
the agreement with the lender is not a non-commercial agreement
the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, a claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract
that claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price 
of more than £100 but not more that £30,000
Here, theres no question that the financial limits apply to the transaction. Mrs S paid a total 
of £3,260, but no individual item within that total was £100 or less. And Mrs Ss credit 
agreement with Tesco is not a non-commercial agreement; that is, its not a consumer credit 
agreement not made by Tesco in the course of its business.
Section 12(b) of the CCA says that a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within 
section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in 
contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the supplier. And section 
11(1)(b) says that a restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other 
than the creditor.
Mrs Ss agreement with Tesco is a regulated consumer credit agreement. It was used to 
finance the transaction she was undertaking with A. But the payment was made to C. Tesco 
has said that Mrs S made her payment not knowing this. In any event, Mrs S was able to 
establish a link between A and C via Companies House records. A and C ultimately had 
controlling directors that appears to meet the definition of associates as defined in section 
184 of the CCA, which also created an association between the corporate bodies A and C.
Section 187 of the CCA covers arrangements between creditor and supplier. It says:
A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance 
with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made between persons 
mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
Subsection (4) says the persons referred to in subsection (1) are:
(a)the creditor and the supplier;
(b)one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)an associate of one and an associate of the others.Given the associate connection established between A and C via the Companies House 
information, Im satisfied that the way section 187 operates preserves the pre-existing 
arrangements link between Mrs S, Tesco and A, notwithstanding the involvement of C as the 
person to whom payment was made. As such, I find that this aspect of the section 75 
requirement is met.
does Mrs S have, in relation to the transaction financed by the agreement, a claim against A 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract?
Mrs S has sought to make a claim of misrepresentation. She argues that the rights acquired 
by A when it purchased them from B were no greater than the rights B itself held. She says 
A sought to impose a further condition on the release of the motorhome that was not 
afforded it by the original agreement, but that A held itself out as having the right to do so. 
That, claims Mrs S, amounts to a misrepresentation by A that induced her to enter into the 
agreement with A and make the payment that she did.
Tescos position appears to be that the only claim Mrs S could ever have in 
misrepresentation would be if A told her it wouldnt charge the stated fees and then 
proceeded to do so. It has offered no reasonable explanation for why it takes this view, or 
why it considers the claim Mrs S has made could not amount to misrepresentation. On the 
face of it, I see no reason why it could not.
With this in mind, I have to conclude that Tesco did not act fairly towards Mrs S in respect of 
the reasons it has given for declining her claim. All the necessary aspects for a claim have 
been met. So Ive gone on to consider how Tescos response affected Mrs Ss position.
what was the impact of Tescos actions on Mrs S?
It's clear that Mrs S has been inconvenienced by the way Tesco has dealt with her 
underlying claim. The bank isnt obliged to accept a claim simply because one is brought. 
But where it seeks to defend a claim, it seems to me only fair that it does so in a way that 
demonstrates it has properly contemplated the arguments made. Based on what Ive seen 
from Tesco in this case, Im not persuaded that it has done so, despite the extended period it 
has had to review its position.
In light of the trouble Mrs S has been put to in this respect, I share the investigators view 
that Tesco should pay her compensation, which I assess at £150. Im further inclined to say 
that Mrs S has presented what appears to be a compelling claim in terms of 
misrepresentation by A. Her submissions include a letter from Bs administrators, which 
contains the following:
Under the terms of the sale agreement
the purchaser is obliged to seek the consent of the CM (chattel mortgage) 
Holders to keep CM Vehicles in their possession
If the CM Holder does not wish to sell the CM Vehicle or otherwise make it 
available to the purchaser, then the purchaser is obliged to forthwith deliver 
the CM Vehicle up to them for no charge, save in circumstances where it 
does not have control of the CM motorhome
The administrators letter is strong and persuasive evidence that the agreements A 
purchased from B provided that the mortgaged property (as I understand it, the motorhome 
and among other things, any fixed additions or accessories) should be delivered up to Mrs S 
without at least some of the charges A held out as having the right to collect. I can see that As assertion that having acquired Bs rights from the original agreement it was able to make 
such charges could well amount to misrepresentation by A that led Mrs S to make payment. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I dont accept Tescos argument that it cant consider the 
arrangements between Mrs S and B in relation to the claim in misrepresentation. There is 
nothing that prevents the bank from taking this arrangement into account. If anything, it was 
probably remiss of the bank to fail to do so, as it is the basis of the claim.
In light of this, I find that Tesco did not properly receive and consider Mrs Ss claim in 
misrepresentation. Had it done so, I see no valid reason why it would not have met that 
claim. To address this, I consider it appropriate to require Tesco to reimburse the money 
Mrs S paid A, with suitable interest to reflect the time shes not had the use of her funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. To resolve it I require Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to take the following steps within 28 days of Mrs Ss acceptance:
1. Refund the amount Mrs S paid A, together with annual interest at 8% simple from 
the date Mrs S repaid the credit card transaction on her account to the date 
Tesco settles the claim.
If Tesco deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it should confirm to 
Mrs S that it has done so and provide her with the relevant tax deduction 
certificate
2. Pay Mrs S £150 for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman