DRN-3651679
The complaint
Ms complaint is about the handling of a claim he made on the legal expenses insurance 
section of his motor trade policy. Mr A, on behalf of M, says AXA didnt handle the claim 
fairly. 
All references to AXA in this decision include their claims handlers unless stated otherwise.
What happened
Mr A made a claim on the legal expenses insurance section of Ms motor trade policy for 
cover to help with a dispute with the commercial landlord for Ms business premises. Ms 
landlord had forfeited the lease which meant it was no longer able to trade.
The claim was initially declined because it was notified outside the initial period of cover. Mr 
A referred a complaint to us in respect of this which was considered separately. After that 
complaint was referred to us, AXA accepted the claim had been notified in time but that it 
hadnt been considered. As such AXA offered Mr A £100 for the poor service M had received 
and agreed to consider the claim.
AXA conducted a review of the claim and told Mr A it had passed the initial stage. They then 
referred the matter to a panel firm to consider the merits of the claim. The panel firm noticed 
the claim appeared to fall within a policy exclusion- namely because it involved issues of 
unpaid rent. Because of this the claim was declined. 
Our investigator considered Ms complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He thought that AXA 
should have picked up on the fact that Ms claim fell within a policy exclusion before passing 
it to their panel firm to assess but this didnt impact M negatively as it received the benefit of 
legal assistance at no cost. 
Mr A is unhappy about several things. Ive summarised his complaint points below.
He questions whether AXA, its claims handlers and Ms landlord have a conflict of 
interest affecting its claim.
The sum of £100 offered for the claim not being taken forward to assessment for 2.5 
years wasnt enough. It doesnt take account of the damage to Ms business and Mr As 
health or the timing of this which coincided with the moratorium applied to legal claims 
during the Covid-19 pandemic.
If the claim Mr A made had been handled promptly, it wouldnt have been rejected 
because Ms landlord hadnt made allegations of non-payment of rent in May 2018 when 
the lease was forfeited.
Ms claim successfully passed one level of insurance assessment.
M didnt benefit from any legal assistance from the panel firm because the merits of its 
claim werent assessed.
The panel firm used baseless evidence when determining his claim fell within a policy 
exclusion.
M overpaid its insurance premium between June 2018 and June 2019 and therefore wants a 
refund for that sum. This is after Mr A reported Ms business lease had been forfeited and 
was no longer trading.
In July 2022 I reached a provisional decision in respect of Ms complaint. I partially upheld 
that complaint and directed that AXA reimburse M for the policy premiums it paid from the 
renewal date after Mr A notified it of Ms claim to AXA in 2018 together with interest at 8% 
per year simple from the date M paid those premiums until theyre reimbursed. The reasons I 
gave were as follows:
As our investigator explained, the claims handlers appointed by AXA to consider Ms claims 
have delegated authority to act for AXA. As such weve considered this complaint against 
AXA because they are responsible for any actions the claims handlers took when handling 
Ms claim. I havent seen anything which suggests that AXA and their claims handlers have a 
conflict of interest such that it would impact negatively on Ms claim nor that the same 
applies to its landlord. I appreciate Mr A might want us to investigate these relationships 
further but thats not what this Service is empowered to do. We look at individual complaints 
between businesses and customers. And there isnt, as far as I can see, a specific complaint 
here for us to consider concerning a conflict of interest between the parties Mr A has 
mentioned.
Mr A is unhappy with the amount of time it took AXA to deal with Ms initial claim. Given what 
AXA has said, I accept that they wrongly declined Ms claim because Mr A had referred it 
within the time limits set out by the policy. To remedy this situation, I would expect AXA to 
put things right by offering to consider the claim and provide M with some compensation for 
its initial error. AXA did this. 
Mr A doesnt think that the action AXA took was right. He feels that Ms claim would have 
been accepted if AXA had referred it to a panel firm at the point it had been made. He also 
doesnt think the offer of £100 goes far enough to compensate M for the trouble and upset 
he experienced. Im sympathetic to Mr As situation. The forfeiture of Ms lease clearly had a 
significant impact on him and an end to Ms business. And I appreciate that he already had 
some health problems which may well have been exacerbated by the problems he was 
having. But I dont think that AXA referring Ms claim for assessment at an earlier stage 
would necessarily have changed the outcome of it. I say so because there came a point 
when Ms landlord claimed M owed him rent on the lease that had been forfeited. When that 
happened any assistance M might have received would have come to an end because the 
policy specifically excludes the payment or non payment or review of any tax, rent or 
service charge. Although Mr A says this issue didnt come about until much later in his 
claims journey, Im not persuaded that it wasnt already in existence when he notified AXA of 
Ms claim. Its right that it might not have been included in any claim form Mr A completed 
but that doesnt mean it didnt exist. Mr A says the issue only appeared to surface when his 
landlord cited it as a reason when making its application to the Land Registry to cancel his 
lease but that doesnt mean that his landlord wouldnt have raised the issue sooner had 
contact been made with him by say the panel firm on Ms behalf. If that had happened, AXA 
would have withdrawn cover in any event. So, I dont think M has necessarily lost out by the 
claim being assessed later. And whilst I appreciate the situation Mr A found himself in had 
an impact on his business and him personally, I dont think I can say things would have been 
different if AXA had referred Ms claim for consideration any sooner. Because of this I think 
their offer of £100 in recognition of their error and the delay in dealing with things is 
adequate. Mr A hasnt accepted this amount. If he now wants to, he should contact AXA 
directly. I know Mr A feels Ms claim should have been covered, having passed the initial assessment 
by AXA but I dont think thats right. Its true that AXA ought to have picked up on the fact 
that a policy exclusion was applicable but Mr A provided a considerable volume of 
documents so I can see why this might have been missed. I dont think there was any 
detriment to Mr A in a panel firm looking at things and determining that an exclusion was 
applicable. And I understand why Mr A feels he didnt benefit from that assessment. But as 
the investigator said, some legal help was given- at least to the extent that he was given 
some brief advice about the date for filing of documents at the Land Registry. If the claim 
had been rejected by AXA from the start because the policy exclusion was applicable then 
Mr A wouldnt have received that advice. Whilst this might not be of comfort to him, I dont 
disagree with the investigator when he said Mr A received some benefit. 
Mr A has said the application of the policy exclusion was unfair because the allegation of 
arrears of rent was baseless. Whilst that might well be the case, I dont think a dispute about 
arrears of rent needs to be proven in order for an insurer to apply the exclusion. Virtually all 
claims made for cover to before the event insurers are for unproven claims and or 
determinations on both sides. So, I dont think AXA were wrong to turn down the claim based 
on the allegation by Mr As landlord. The allegation alone, is in my view, enough for the 
exclusion to apply.
I appreciate Mr A wants a refund of Ms policy premiums after M stopped trading. AXA have 
said that Mr A didnt physically seek to cancel the policy at that point, so they continued 
collecting premiums as the policy renewed. But Im not convinced that AXA had an insurable 
interest at that point- namely the business the insurance was seeking to protect. So although 
I accept that Mr A wasnt clear when he notified his claim to AXA that he wanted to cancel 
the insurance, I also think its unfair for AXA to keep policy premiums for a policy that Mr A 
could never have claim on- essentially because there was no risk to them at all. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr A made several very detailed 
submissions. Those submissions are broadly the same as the ones he made to this Service 
when he brought his complaint and when he replied to the investigators view. So, I wont 
repeat them here save to say I considered them in detail. 
In response to my provisional decision AXA said Mr A didnt make clear he had stopped 
trading when he got in touch with them to say he had been experiencing difficulties with Ms 
claim to the underwriter of the policy. And they wouldnt cancel a policy unless explicitly 
asked to. They also said the Motor Insurance Database records indicate that Mr A had not 
registered Ms vehicles to another provider until after the policy was cancelled in March 
2019. So AXA would still have risk exposure for them under the road risks element of cover 
under the policy it had in place. Because of this they felt a return of premium was 
inappropriate.
I considered both parties further submissions and reached a second provisional decision. I 
sent my findings to both parties by email earlier this month as follows:
(Mr A) has made considerable submissions in response to my provisional decision. They 
are broadly the same submissions he made in response to the investigators view. I dont 
intend to address them in any detail here save to say that they dont change my view of 
things in relation to the findings I made that he doesnt agree with. That isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to (Mr A), but rather to reflect the informal nature of this service. I refer (Mr A) to 
the findings I reached in my provisional decision which highlight why my view remains the 
same but with one exception, which I have dealt with below.
In response to my provisional decision, AXA said the Motor Insurance Databases records 
indicate that (Mr A) didnt register his vehicles to an alternative insurer until after the policy was cancelled (in) March 2019. Under the road risks element of cover of the motor trade 
policy he held, AXA says it had a risk exposure for these vehicles for the duration they were 
on cover. Because of this they dont think the return of policy premiums to (M) is appropriate.
Ive thought about what AXA has said and I understand why they feel a return of premiums is 
inappropriate. Given they would be deemed to be on risk for a claim by third parties involving 
(Ms) vehicles up to the point of cancellation of the policy by (Mr A), I cant now award a 
return of his premiums to him nor the corresponding interest. Thats because AXA are in fact 
on risk for (these) vehicles even though (the) business is no longer trading. So whilst the 
policy might not provide cover for everything it was intended to encompass when he first 
took it out, it was still providing insurance until the time (Mr A) cancelled it. Theres no way to 
undo that. And its important (M) does have cover for that period in case there are any 
retrospective claims made against (Mr A) for one of his vehicles. If this happened AXA would 
have to provide cover, subject to its policy terms and conditions. I cant circumvent that and it 
follows that its not fair or reasonable for me to require AXA to return his policy premiums in
consequence. Whilst I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing for (Mr A), I hope Ive 
explained why I can no longer award a return of premiums to him together with interest.
For these reasons, I dont intend to uphold (Ms) complaint against AXA Insurance Plc.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or evidence in relation to my 
second provisional decision. AXA responded confirming it had nothing further to add. Mr A 
made further detailed submissions. He felt I hadnt addressed any of his previous points 
which he repeated again. He also felt it would be clearer for me to distinguish between AXA 
and its claims handlers in my decision. And he was unhappy with my findings in respect of 
the policy premium. He felt that he didnt use the cars that were insured after M stopped 
trading so he shouldnt be charged insurance for this. In addition, hes unhappy with the 
compensation AXA offered him of £100 as he thinks this is too low and doesnt recognise the 
stress and pain caused to him by their poor service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding Ms complaint for the same reasons I set out in both my 
first and second provisional decision. The second provisional decision I made reversed my 
earlier findings that AXA should refund the policy premiums M had paid to it. Beyond that my 
findings in respect of Ms main complaint points (which I set out in bullet point form above) 
were essentially the same. 
I know Mr A feels I havent addressed his very detailed submissions in response to both of 
my provisional decisions. As I explained before, thats not intended as any discourtesy to 
him. I have previously addressed all of those points in my first provisional decision. There 
doesnt appear to be anything new in what hes said that persuades me my original findings 
in respect of those points was wrong. Because of this I wont be repeating what Ive 
previously said but rather refer Mr A to my first provisional decision. I know Mr A will find this 
disappointing given the time and effort hes undoubtably taken in making very detailed 
submissions on various occasions but we are an informal organisation so I must take a 
pragmatic approach to dealing with such submissions, especially where theyre broadly a 
repetition of past comments and theres nothing persuasive in them which changes my view 
of things.
I appreciate Mr A wants me to refer to AXA and their claims handlers separately. Ive noted 
at the top of this decision that my references to AXA include their claims handlers. Thats 
because AXA is responsible for the actions of its claims handlers where theyve represented AXA in dealing with Ms claim. So, I cant hold them both separately responsible for any 
wrongdoing. My referring to them as one entity therefore makes little or no difference to the 
outcome of this decision; rather its intended for ease of reading. 
Finally, I understand why Mr A feels M couldnt benefit from the insurance in place with AXA 
when M stopped trading but thats not quite right. AXA was on risk for those vehicles until 
they were insured elsewhere, whether or not he was using them. So, whilst the risk might 
have been minimal to AXA that a claim could be made by a third party, there was still a 
possibility this could happen if there was an incident involving one of Ms vehicles. Until and 
unless that risk was transferred to another insurer or the policy was cancelled, AXA would 
still have some liability should a claim arise. Because of this I cant say that AXA should 
return the premiums paid to it by M. For clarity, it doesnt matter whether such a claim has 
merit- its more that AXA are responsible for the risk of dealing with it in the period they are 
noted as the insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my second provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms 
complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman