DRN-1532419
 
The complaint
Mr B and Miss P complain that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) 
mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr B and Miss P in 2001 in connection with 
a mortgage. The policy provided Mr B with cover if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr B and Miss P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Miss Ps case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr B and Miss Ps needs?
Did Santander give Mr B and Miss B the information they needed to decide whether 
to take out the policy?
 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
B and Miss P are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Miss Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr B and Miss P say they didn't know about the PPI and they would've turned it down if it 
had been offered to them. Ive noted everything Mr B and Miss P have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr B and Miss P and 
Santander when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place almost 
twenty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.Santander hasnt been able to provide much information from when the policy was sold. 
Thats not surprising given the amount of time thats passed, and its similar to some other 
cases Ive seen.
But without anything else to support what Mr B and Miss P have told me, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably say that Santander didnt tell them about the PPI, or give them a choice 
about buying it. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed, but its equally likely that it was  
although I can understand why Mr B and Miss P may no longer remember this.
Santander accepts that it advised Mr B and Miss P to take out the policy and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
-           Mr B was eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions.
-           Mr B says he wasn't entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident, and that he and Miss P didn't have any savings. So I think 
the policy would've provided a useful benefit to them if things went wrong.
-           Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Miss P 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr B and Miss 
P before they agreed to buy it. But Mr B and Miss P took out the policy knowing they would 
have to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr B and Miss P would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided. 
It's possible the information Santander gave Mr B and Miss P about the PPI wasn't as clear 
as it should have been. But as I've already said, Mr B wasn't affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr B and Miss P would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided - overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman