DRN-3455873
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr W is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
Background
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in August 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In summary, the CMC says:
the installer misled Mr W into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which 
they werent;
Mr W was misled about the total amount he would have to pay, in that the sales 
contract omitted to mention the loan interest;
the panels are under-performing.
Ikano did not accept that any misrepresentation had taken place. But it did accept that the 
panels were underperforming, and in its final response letter (in March 2021) it offered to 
carry out an inspection to find out why. That offer was not accepted at the time.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She did not think that the 
benefits of the panels had been mis-represented to Mr W, or that the total repayable under 
the loan had been unclear.
The CMC did not accept that opinion. It argued that:
not enough weight had been given to Mr Ws account of what he had been told 
verbally by the salesman, and instead too much weight had been given to the sales 
documentation (which had led the adjudicator to disbelieve Mr Ws account);
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.1
The CMC asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently minded to uphold this 
complaint in part. I will explain why.
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (34th edition), paragraph 9-051.
Misrepresentation: self-funding
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of 
the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two figures showing the estimated 
range, of which the higher figure is £212.03. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried 
in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is £10,790, payable over 120 
months, or ten years. This document was signed by Mr W immediately below those figures, 
and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to his 
attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr W could 
be forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly 
come to £1,079 each year. That is about five times the stated benefit figure for the first year. 
Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr W about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Total amount repayable
I also do not think that Mr W was misled about the total amount he had to repay towards the 
loan. Although the interest is not mentioned in the sales contract I have just referred to, the 
terms of the loan were clearly set out in the loan agreement.
This made it clear that the total amount he had to repay was more than the cash price of the 
panels, since he was taking out an interest-bearing loan.
Performance
It is not in dispute that the solar panels are not generating as much energy as was estimated 
at the point of sale. This might be evidence of a misrepresentation, but it could also be 
evidence of some defect instead (either with the panels themselves, or with how they were 
installed). Section 75 makes Ikano liable not only for misrepresentation, but also for breach 
of the implied contractual term that the panels will be of satisfactory quality.
The remedy depends on which it is  misrepresentation or breach of contract  not least 
because, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the supplier of defective goods is usually 
entitled to one attempt at repairing them.
So I think it was reasonable of Ikano to offer to inspect the panels (at no cost to Mr W) to find 
out why. That inspection has not happened. But as far as I know, this offer is still open.
I currently think it would be fair to allow Ikano and Mr W the opportunity to carry out the 
offered inspection, at no cost to Mr W, to find out why the panels are not performing as 
expected. If that is done, then I will be likely to uphold this complaint, and the result of the 
inspection will determine what the remedy should be.
(If Mr W does not agree to the inspection, then I am likely to decide that he has not done 
enough to mitigate his loss, with the result that I would be unlikely to uphold his complaint. If 
Ikano no longer wishes to carry out the inspection, then  subject to any representations 
Ikano may make on the subject  I will be likely to presume that the benefits of the panels 
were misrepresented, and to uphold the complaint with the appropriate redress.)
My provisional decision
So my provisional decision is that I may uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties  I intend to determine this complaint in the light 
of the results of the inspection.
Developments since my provisional decision
The inspection was carried out, and the result was that a number of problems were 
discovered, which had been present since installation. The independent report identified the 
remedial work which would have to be done to put the solar panels into good working order, 
at a cost of £4,260.
Ikano has therefore agreed to pay for the remedial work and to pay Mr W compensation for 
the loss of benefits between the date of installation (14 November 2017) and the date the 
repair work is completed. It also agreed to pay a further £100 for Mr Ws inconvenience. 
I think this offer is fair, except that I also think that interest should be paid on the 
compensation at the rate of 8% a year (except on the £100). So I will uphold this complaint 
on the ground that there was a breach of contract by the installer, and that Ikano must put 
this right in the manner I have outlined in this paragraph.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
Arrange for the remedial work identified in the independent report dated 9 June 2022 
to be carried out at no cost to Mr W;
Calculate the difference between (1) what Mr W has made from the solar panels from 
the date of installation to the date the remedial work is completed and (2) how much 
he would have made instead if the panels had been installed correctly in the first 
place, and share its calculations with the CMC so that the CMC can check them;
Pay Mr W the difference so calculated, with simple interest on that payment at eight 
per cent a year from 14 November 2017 to the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr W £100 for his inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman