DRN-3140381
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds proposed resolution to his complaint about 
the outcome of his claim for a solar panel system that was mis-sold to him - and for which he 
holds Shawbrook responsible under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background to this complaint, so I dont intend to set it out in 
detail here. In summary, Mr D bought a solar panel system, including some energy saving 
devices (the system), from a supplier which Ill call G. This was financed through a fixed 
term loan from Shawbrook for around £11,000, which was payable over 15 years at about 
£120 a month.
Mr D is represented by solicitors who have helpfully set out his complaint for us in detail. Mr 
Ds solar panels havent been working for at least the last three years. And before then, they 
dont appear to have been generating the level of electricity that was expected. Between 
2013, when the panels were fitted, and 2015, it also appears that Mr D wasnt getting the 
benefit of the Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) and electricity export payments that he expected from the 
government, as G hadnt helped Mr D register for FIT with his electricity company. As a 
result, when he did register, the rate he got was slightly lower than it would have been had 
he registered shortly after the panels were fitted.
Mr D says the panels were mis-sold to him, as false or misleading representations were 
made by G as to their likely performance. He was effectively told that the system would pay 
for itself out of the income he received and through the energy savings made. This has 
turned out to be untrue, and the panels have been costing him more each month than he 
received in benefits. Mr D also thinks that the system is a potential fire-risk, as some of the 
wiring to the inverter has burnt out and he had to get an electrician to disconnect it back in 
2018.
Mr D would like to rescind his contract with G, get all his money back and have the panels 
removed. His solicitors have argued that he is entitled to this under the terms of his contract 
with G, and that as G has since gone bust, Shawbrook must stand in its shoes and 
compensate him under the requirements of Section 75 of the Act.
Shawbrook has agreed that the panels were more likely than not mis-sold by G to Mr D. And 
it has offered to settle his complaint by making the loan self-funding. It has suggested that it 
will re-calculate the loan based upon an estimate of the benefits Mr D will receive from the 
system over 15 years - and he will pay no more than that. This will make the loan cost-
neutral for Mr D over that time.
Shawbrook has also accepted that the panels arent performing as they should. After they 
were inspected by Shawbrooks appointed engineer, it appears that the system will require a 
new inverter. Shawbrook thinks that this will result in the system working again with the 
original expected output of around 3,000 kWh a year. Mr D will then continue to benefit from 
the income and electricity costs savings he expected when he first bought it. Mr D hasnt yet 
agreed for Shawbrook to carry out that work, preferring to await the outcome of this 
complaint and whether or not I think the panels should be removed or the compensation 
altered.
Mr D has also unfortunately been experiencing some financial difficulties of late and 
Shawbrook has placed his loan in the hands of its debt collection partner. No action has yet 
been taken to collect the debt, although Mr D is unhappy that this step was taken whilst his 
complaint was still outstanding.
Our investigator considered the evidence and the representations made by the parties. She 
thought that the offer Shawbrook had made was fair. Mr D didnt agree, so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr Ds solicitors have gone to a lot of effort to explain Mr Ds position to our 
investigators. And, as I understand it, the only things that remain at issue for me to decide 
are whether or not I think Mr D should be entitled to rescind his contract with G, and for there 
to be a full unwind of this sale as a result of an alleged breach of contract.
If I dont think that a full un-wind would be fair and reasonable  which Mr Ds solicitors 
appear to indicate would still be an acceptable outcome for their client - they have invited me 
to prefer their proposed compensation calculation over the standard method used by 
Shawbrook. What theyd like, amongst other things, is that any downtime of the system is 
taken into account in the calculation of redress.
Having considered everything, I will be upholding this complaint. But Im afraid that Mr D 
may be disappointed to hear that I dont think that the circumstances of his complaint are 
such as to require that I depart from our usual compensation award of making the panels 
self-funding. I do, however, agree that downtime of the system should be taken into account. 
And this is something that Shawbrook would normally do when calculating redress.
Ill firstly say that I have considered everything that the parties have put to us in detail. That 
includes the very helpful and clearly articulated arguments made by Mr Ds solicitors. I 
appreciate that Mr Ds solicitors thought it might be helpful for me to speak to their expert 
about the calculations theyve made. But I dont think thats necessary for me to reach a 
decision.
In essence, this is a case of a mis-sale by G, which both the parties have accepted. So, I 
dont need to determine anything more in relation to the circumstances surrounding those 
representations. Mr Ds solicitors have also made alternative arguments that they consider 
may result in a different form of redress to that which Shawbrook have proposed. Those 
arguments include that the terms of Mr Ds contract with G allow him to terminate it in the 
event that there is a fundamental breach. They say that the delay by Shawbrook in offering 
to fix the system is sufficient for Mr D to rescind the contract.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr Ds solicitors might want this, I dont intend in this decision to 
undertake a detailed analysis of Mr Ds contract with G. Solar panel mis-sale complaints are 
often brought to us by consumers representatives on numerous alternative bases. Were an 
alternative dispute resolution service, and not the Court. So, we wont generally undertake a 
legal analysis of all those arguments, where the parties accept that a mis-sale has taken 
place. In a case such as this, it therefore falls to me to decide what I think is fair 
compensation for the loss that Mr D has experienced.Its my decision that the redress Shawbrook has offered, subject to what I say below, is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate for the loss that Mr D has experienced. What I will say though, 
is that I havent seen any evidence here that it will have been completely clear to Shawbrook 
that the panels werent working at all, until Mr D made his complaint in 2019. Mr D says he 
told them they werent working in 2017. But the FIT statements indicate they were still 
working at the start of 2018, although perhaps not at their full capacity.
Mr D hasnt provided us with an experts report as to what may be wrong with the panels and 
it wasnt until Shawbrook sent out its expert at the beginning of 2021, that it became clear 
that the inverter needed replacing. A large proportion of the delays experienced in getting to 
the stage of having this dealt with have been as a result of the complaints process.
I appreciate that Mr D has concerns about Shawbrooks proposed redress methodology. And 
he wants to pursue an outcome that is different to that which we normally award. But I do 
think this is a complaint where the parties could have reached a compromise much earlier. 
Mr Ds solicitors appear to appreciate what our normal approach is. And our investigators 
have been clear that it is unlikely that an ombudsman would think a full unwind was 
appropriate here.
I accept that Shawbrook should have recognised that more needed to be done to get the 
panels working much earlier in the complaints process than it did. And an expert wasnt sent 
out until we asked for this. So, the original offers were clearly over-stated in terms of the 
expected performance of the system. 
Mr Ds solicitors have also been asking for the redress methodology used by Shawbrook to 
be changed substantially. They effectively want Shawbrook to recalculate the principal 
amount of the loan with effect from 2013 and then apply interest to that for the period that it 
is outstanding. Because Mr D will have effectively been overpaying each month for the first 
five or so years of the loan, they think that by now he would have effectively paid off the loan 
and be due some of his instalment payments back.
But the way Shawbrook proposes to recalculate the loan is not, I think, unfair. Mr D bought a 
solar panel system that cost around £11,000. Thats the sum that Shawbrook has financed 
and it will have paid this to G. It would have been open to Mr D just to buy the panels 
outright if hed had sufficient cash available to do so. Hed then have spent around £11,000 
back in 2013.
In restructuring the loan in the way that Shawbrook has proposed, it is effectively agreeing to 
write off the majority, if not all of the interest that would otherwise have been payable on the 
principal. If the benefits are less than the £11,000 funded, then it will also end up reducing 
the loan principal too. So, Mr D will only pay for the panels what he gets back in benefits 
from them. And thats over a 15-year period (the original length of the loan), which I consider 
to be a fair pay-back period for the system. Mr D will effectively get the panels for cheaper 
than their cost price and pay little or no interest on the loan. Hell then continue to have the 
benefit of the panels for the rest of their expected lifespan.
Mr Ds solicitors, in their example calculations, are asking for the principal to be reduced to 
around £6,000, with the effect of that being that Mr Ds overpayments will have seen the loan 
settled much earlier. As a result, he would save significantly on interest, which would be 
accruing on a lower amount of principal than Shawbrooks offer intends. That principal is 
also significantly less than the original cost of the panels - something that Mr D could never 
have expected to have got when he bought them.
So, Mr Ds proposed calculation method means that rather than the 15-year system payback 
period that I consider fair, because of what hes paid to date, hell see the benefits of the system pay for the panels over six or so years. And thats not a level of performance that he 
was ever promised or could have expected from these panels. So, I dont think thats a fair 
way to calculate redress here.
Mr Ds solicitors have also invited me to change the values that Shawbrook use for the 
assumed performance of the panels. I appreciate that there are numerous conflicting 
arguments as to what the correct values should be when carrying out a benefit calculation. 
And a lot of financial services businesses do it slightly differently. That doesnt mean that 
each is right or wrong, just that theyve accepted one argument over another at the time that 
theyve agreed their policy on redress.
Whilst I dont propose to address in detail each suggestion that Mr Ds solicitors have made, 
I will take a couple of examples. Mr D thinks the appropriate rate that should be used to 
calculate a unit of electricity is 12.6 pence. Shawbrook has used 15 pence. And thats a 
pretty standard assumption in the industry. But theres no evidence as to how long Mr D was 
paying the 12.6 pence for, other than one electricity bill.  And as has been seen through the 
recent significant rises in electricity prices, the average cost for a lot of people is now well 
over 20 pence a kWh.
Given the unknown effects of inflation on the market, I dont think that its unfair for 
Shawbrook to have used set inflation figures in order to determine the likely cost of electricity 
going forward. And as these things often fluctuate quite dramatically, and are influenced by 
competition in the market too, I dont see that its done anything wrong by using the 
assumptions that it has.
Another thing that Mr D is concerned about is the benefits ascribed to the Voltage Optimiser 
that Mr D had fitted as part of the system. He thinks the benefits of this are over-estimated. 
In the complaints Ive dealt with, Ive seen a number of reports by experts that all say quite 
different things. Mr Ds solicitors suggest that the savings are less than Shawbrook has 
assumed and that they should only be calculated for the first five years. But Shawbrook of 
course say differently.
At this Service, were not experts in the cost saving benefits of electrical installations. So, we 
rely on expert evidence to reach our decisions. We have an approach to dealing with solar 
panel complaints. And due to the numbers that we get, its generally not appropriate for us to 
depart from the methodology that weve agreed with the financial service providers involved 
in these claims - unless the evidence is compelling that the assumptions used are unfair. Ive 
seen nothing in this complaint that persuades me that I should depart from the usual 
methodology used by Shawbrook.
That said, it is clear in Mr Ds case that the benefits of the system were originally over-
estimated by Shawbrook, given that the panels havent been working for at least the last 
three years. Mr D also didnt have any FIT or export payments for the first couple of years. 
Theres little evidence available about why the panels werent registered for FIT until 2015, 
save that Mr D says that G told him it would help with this. G is no longer around to answer 
that allegation, which is the opposite of what wed normally expect to see, where the 
customer is generally responsible for registering for FIT. But Shawbrook appears to have 
accepted responsibility for this and has taken it into account in its calculations for the benefit 
Mr D received. So, I wont comment on it any further other than to say that Shawbrook 
should include the lack of FIT and export payments for those two years in its calculations 
until Mr D started receiving his payments in 2015.
The fact that Mr D got a slightly lower rate of FIT due to the delay, is not something that I 
think that Shawbrook need to compensate him for, as Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr D 
chased this up with Shawbrook during the relevant period.So, given that the panels also havent been working since at least 2018, Shawbrook will 
need to take that into account in the calculation that it makes. It should also use the FIT and 
electricity consumption statements that Mr D does have available, whilst the panels were 
working, to calculate the benefits Mr D received. Thereafter, it may rely on its standard 
assumptions.
Shawbrook has offered to repair the panels. And I think that if it is to do so, this amounts to 
fair compensation. All that seems to be required is the replacement of the inverter. As our 
investigator said, inverters do occasionally fail. And they also often require replacing at least 
once over the expected 25-year lifespan of the panels. So here Mr D will, once replaced, 
have the benefit of a new inverter which should hopefully last a considerable length of time. 
Hell then continue to get the benefit of the panels which will remain on his roof. It would be 
disproportionate for me to require that Shawbrook remove them when the fix required is 
apparently quite simple.
But I do accept that Mr D may be a little nervous about the safety of his system given the 
pictures that Ive seen of the melted connection and the fact that his electrician disconnected 
them as unsafe. So as part of the repairs, I think that Shawbrook should ask its repair 
partner to inspect the system to ensure that it was fitted in accordance with the regulations 
and best practice applicable when it was first installed in 2013. And it should confirm that its 
safe to use.
I have also seen an MCS certificate in the evidence which the parties believe to be for Mr 
Ds property and which suggests the output of his panels is just over 3,000 kWh a year. But 
that certificate has the details of a different address to that of Mr D on it. So, the engineer 
attending should also confirm to Shawbrook what the estimated output of the panels is, so 
that the correct figure can be used in its calculations.
Ive considered the trouble and upset to which Mr D was put as a result of how Shawbrook 
has dealt with his claim. In that regard, its not a question of me requiring that Shawbrook 
compensate Mr D for the distress and inconvenience that he experienced at the hands of G, 
but more how Shawbrook has made that worse through its actions. In that regard, I think that 
Shawbrook should have taken steps to inspect Mr Ds system earlier than it did, which 
clearly wasnt performing as it should. Different offers have been made during the life of this 
complaint. When our first investigator issued his opinion in January 2020, Shawbrook was 
offering £200 compensation for this. I think that offer was a fair amount and is what I would 
have suggested for the distress and inconvenience Mr D experienced. So, I think its an 
appropriate amount of compensation to award here.
Ive also thought about Shawbrooks instruction of its debt collection partner. I understand 
that this has upset Mr D. As our investigator has said, it does appear that Mr D has been 
behind on some of his payments for the last few years, before stopping his payments 
altogether after this complaint was raised. For the most part, those early missed payments 
appear to have been due to administrative problems that Mr D was having with his bank and 
finances. And he generally told Shawbrook that hed be making the payment up shortly 
afterwards. 
Shawbrook has been clear with its debt collection partner that no action should be taken 
whilst this complaint is outstanding - as I would have expected. And if, once the calculations 
of the restructured loan are available, Mr D still needs to discuss payment arrangements, 
then I would expect Shawbrook to treat him positively and sympathetically. But I dont think 
Shawbrook has done anything wrong to date in taking the action that it has with regard to the 
outstanding debt.
Once the loan has been restructured, Mr D will have overpaid monthly for the loan when he was making his payments. For the amount of those overpayments, I will expect Shawbrook 
to add interest to the overpaid amounts from the date that the overpayment was made until it 
is effectively repaid. This is to compensate Mr D for his loss of use of that money. I 
appreciate that Shawbrook made its offer at a relatively early stage in this complaint, but I 
consider that interest should continue to run until repayment, as it didnt initially take steps to 
inspect and repair the panels until we asked it to send someone out. Additionally, I havent 
seen any reason to believe that Mr D or his solicitors have unduly delayed the progression of 
this complaint in order to obtain any unfair advantage in terms of interest payable.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Shawbrook Bank Limited:
Arrange to repair the system, to include asking its engineer to check that it has been 
installed in accordance with the regulations in force and best practice at the time that 
it was originally fitted in 2013, and make any necessary changes so that it can 
confirm that it is safe to use;
Recalculate the loan so that Mr D pays no more than the known and assumed 
savings and income that he will receive from the panels over the 15-year term of the 
loan;
Allow Mr D to keep the solar panels and other energy saving devices;
Calculate any overpayments made by Mr D and apply those, and any other 
payments he has made, to his restructured loan account together with any interest on 
them. If there is a surplus after the restructured loan has been settled, then this 
should be repaid to Mr D. But if there is any sum remaining due on the restructured 
loan, then he should be given the options below to repay it;
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made to the date that they are effectively repaid;
Arrange for the removal of any negative entries on Mr Ds records with credit 
reference agencies that may have been reported for this loan; and
Give Mr D the following options about how he would like to pay the balance (if any) 
on his restructured loan:
oAfter the overpayments and interest are applied to the loan, Mr D will then 
repay the outstanding recalculated loan balance by making the original 
monthly loan repayments for a reduced length of time; or
oAfter the overpayments and interest are applied to the loan, Mr D will then 
repay the outstanding recalculated loan balance by making a reduced 
monthly loan repayment for the balance of the original loan term; and
Pay Mr D £200 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr D request it, Shawbrook should give him a certificate showing how much tax has 
been taken off so that he may reclaim it if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman