DRN-2826424
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Coutts & Company (Coutts) closed his account. He also complains 
that they didnt provide his new provider with a suitable reference and were uncooperative 
during the transfer. 
What happened
Mr B opened his account with Coutts in 1993. He says he understood he would be able to 
use the bank as his trusted financial advisor for life. And he has told us the original source of 
all his wealth was well documented from the outset. Mr B says he took temporary residence 
in a country outside of the UK and that Coutts assured him this was acceptable.
However, Mr B says that towards the end of November 2019 he was having difficulty 
contacting his accounts manager. When he did speak to them over the phone, he says he 
was shocked to be told his accounts were going to be terminated. Coutts wrote to him in 
early December to confirm their decision. Mr B then sought to find a new provider.  
 
After Mr B had transferred to a new provider, he complained to Coutts on 5 March 2020. He 
was concerned about Couttss decision to close his accounts and felt he had been given no 
option but to find an alternative provider. He said he felt the transfer process was very 
stressful. He was also unhappy because he felt that Coutts hadnt provided him with support 
or facilitated a smooth transfer. He was also concerned they hadnt given him an adequate 
reference to evidence source of funds. Mr B feels Coutts should pay for the costs associated 
with the transfer to a new provider. 
Coutts responded to the complaint on 15 September 2020. They explained that they decided 
to close the accounts because Mr Bs combined assets and liabilities werent enough for him 
to remain banking with them. They said the required holding was based on his country of 
residence which was considered high-risk by them due to the compliance and costs involved 
in maintaining the accounts. They also said they had been unable to substantiate the source 
of Mr Bs wealth as he joined them 25 years ago. Therefore, they didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
He remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt Coutts hadnt done 
anything wrong and explained this in his view. Mr B didnt accept and said the substantive 
point wasnt whether Coutts had a right to close his account but how it was done. He says he 
was given a lack of support and they obstructed his appointment of a new provider. His new 
financial provider also responded to the view on Mr Bs behalf. 
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure 
In response to the view, Mr B says he isnt disputing whether Coutts had a right to close his 
account. His new financial provider commented to say it should have been clear to Coutts 
that Mr Bs move was temporary in nature and likely to end soon. The new adviser also felt 
the way Coutts had enforced their terms and conditions was arbitrary and didnt agree their 
terms were fair. 
Ive carefully considered Couttss reasons for closing the account and the comments which 
have been provided. I note Coutts made a business decision about the required holdings for 
non-UK residents and concluded that Mr Bs holding wasnt sufficient for them to maintain 
his accounts. Having thought about this, Im content Coutts legitimately exercised their right 
to make decisions about how they conduct their business when deciding on the required 
holding amount. And we wouldnt normally interfere with such business decisions. But we 
would expect decisions to be implemented fairly and I note Mr B is unhappy with how Coutts 
went about closing his accounts.
Ive reviewed the private client core terms provided by Coutts. They stated that Coutts could 
close an account or terminate the agreement for any reason providing they give at least 60 
days notice. Mr B has said he wasnt given a reasonable explanation as to why his accounts 
were being closed. And the evidence Ive been provided doesnt show me exactly what was 
explained at the time. But the core terms do explain they can close an account for any 
reason and so I cant say Coutts have done anything wrong here.
Coutts spoke to Mr B over the phone about the account closure at the end of November 
2019. Both parties have told us that Coutts wrote to Mr B on 13 December. And Mr B has 
said he was given a deadline of 11 February 2020. Therefore, Im content they provided the 
notice period as highlighted in their terms and conditions. Therefore, Im content Coutts were 
acting within their core terms when they closed the account. 
In response to the view, Mr B says he was previously told he didnt need to meet the new 
requirements and have the minimum holding. He feels Coutts have only given us some of 
the information. I understand Mr B may have had different expectations based on what hes 
explained of his previous conversations with Coutts. However, Coutts made a business 
decision based on the changes in the market they were operating. This decision didnt only 
effect Mr B but also other clients. And as they provided Mr B with reasonable notice, Im not 
persuaded Mr Bs previous expectations mean Coutts acted unreasonably here. 
Ive seen a call note from Coutts dated 16 November 2017. Coutts made a record of 
discussing the minimum top up for Mr B as a non-UK resident. They confirmed this had 
previously been deferred for a year. But he would be expected to meet the top up in June 
2018. Therefore, I can see Coutts previously hadnt closed Mr Bs accounts when he didnt 
have the required holding and I can understand why Mr B might not have expected it when 
they did. But Im content Coutts explained they did require Mr B to have a minimum holding 
even though they had chosen to defer it. And Im not persuaded this means it was 
unreasonable because they later decided to enforce it.
 
Overall, Im content Coutts acted fairly and reasonably in closing Mr Bs account. On 
balance, Im satisfied they spoke to Mr B about meeting the requirements and they provided 
60 days notice as outlined in their terms and conditions. I appreciate there were difficulties appointing a new adviser and Ill return to this below. But as Coutts gave reasonable notice, 
Mr B was able to make alternative arrangements before his account was closed. 
New Provider and Reference 
Mr B says that he asked Coutts to help him find a new provider and they refused to help. I 
appreciate the difficult situation Mr B was in at the time. However, once Coutts 
communicated their decision to close his accounts and provided reasonable notice, Im not 
convinced they had an obligation to help him find a new provider. Therefore, I cant say they 
did anything wrong by telling him they wouldnt help with this.
 
Additionally, in response to the view, Mr B says Coutts said they would provide a full 
reference in respect of the origin of his funds for his new providers. Mr B has told us he kept 
original ledgers and documents, and this was the only reason his new provider was able to 
accept his instruction without a reference. Mr Bs new financial advisor also provided 
comments explaining that Coutts failed to provide any financial history or reference and they 
were forced to courier original documents. The new provider said Coutts were very unhelpful 
when they decided not to provide him with a service. 
Ive seen email correspondence from the transfer, and I can see the new provider asked 
Coutts for information about Mr Bs source of wealth. I can see Coutts responded and 
explained that their notes showed it was from an inherited property which was subsequently 
sold. When responding to the complaint, Coutts said they couldnt substantiate the source of 
wealth given that so many years had passed since Mr B had joined them. However, the 
evidence does seem to show they provided an explanation of their notes. I appreciate this 
may not have been satisfactory for the new providers checks, but it would ultimately fall to 
Mr B to provide evidence of his source of wealth. 
Again, I understand why it would have been helpful for Coutts to provide this information. But 
Im not persuaded Coutts had an obligation to provide a reference or financial history in 
order to authenticate Mr Bs source of wealth for his new provider. And Couttss explanation 
about not being able to provide further information because of the time which had passed 
seems reasonable. Therefore, I cant say theyve done anything wrong here. 
Overall, the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me that Coutts acted unreasonably in 
respect of the transfer. And Mr B was ultimately able to find a new provider and substantiate 
his source of wealth, although I do recognise Mr B faced difficulties in doing so. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman