DRN-2982105
The complaint
Mr B has complained, via a representative - Mrs B - that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) 
hasnt downgraded his fee-paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA, when he asked 
for it to be.
Mr B has also complained that the URCA was mis-sold to him too. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt find in Mr Bs favour.
Mrs B disagreed with this and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
It has been agreed that the complaint concerning the mis-sale of the URCA forms a separate 
complaint to this one. So this decision only concerns Mr Bs complaint about his URCA not 
being downgraded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read through everything that Mrs B has sent us, I can see that the matter of 
downgrading (or trying to downgrade) Mr Bs URCA to a fee-free account has been very 
frustrating for both Mr B and Mrs B.
However, I note that Mrs B has never been an account holder on the account in question. 
Because of this, Halifax was not able to act on any of the requests to downgrade the account 
it received from Mrs B. This is because Halifax can only act on instructions that the account 
holder provides. Therefore, as frustrating as it may be for Mrs B, I am unable to say that 
Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably because it didnt act on any requests that Mrs B 
made  including Mrs Bs letters of complaint - to downgrade Mr Bs account. 
I note that Halifax has paid Mrs B £100 directly for keeping her on hold when she called 
Halifax. Overall I think this is reasonable, as I think Halifax couldve made it clearer from the 
outset that it cant act on her instructions  which wouldve saved Mrs B the inconvenience of 
contacting Halifax any further about this matter.
So, to establish whether Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably, I have considered 
whether Halifax failed to act on an instruction received from Mr B to downgrade his account. 
Mr B has said that hes called and written to Halifax numerous times to ask for his account to 
be downgraded and also attended branch in person. Looking through the complaint letters 
that Mrs B and Mr B have written, there seems to be various dates given as to when Mr B 
says he asked for the account to be downgraded. These include August 2017, 14 August 
2018 and May 2019. 
However, Halifax says it never received any letters, phone calls or any requests via online 
banking for the account to be downgraded from Mr B. It says it has no evidence that Mr B 
asked for it to be downgraded in branch either.
If Halifax had received multiple requests to downgrade from Mr B, I think its likely that there 
would be evidence of at least one of these requests being received. So Ive looked through 
everything that Halifax has provided from its records, including its contact records for Mr B, 
to see if there is anything to suggest that it received a request to downgrade from Mr B. But I 
cant find any evidence that it did receive such a request. There is only one contact note 
dated 30 May 2017 where information has been provided about Mr Bs conversation in 
branch. But the notes recorded dont indicate that Mr B did ask for his account to be 
downgraded. On the contrary, the notes suggest that he went into the branch solely to apply 
for credit. The notes say:
Mr [B] came into branch to apply for a Clarity card and overdraft  after a chat about his 
income we decided not to progress the application as this is his only UK Bank and there 
have been no credits since last autumn so there are sustainability issues. He was also 
unable to give me many details about his income from self-employment including his total 
income for last year. 
The above notes dont indicate that Mr B had asked for his account to be downgraded in 
May 2017. And the date of the above branch visit doesnt seem to match the dates Mr B has 
given as to when he says he attended branch anyway. As such, I cant reasonably conclude 
that the notes show that Halifax had received an instruction from Mr B to downgrade the 
URCA in May 2017  or indeed failed to act on such an instruction, as Mr B says it did. 
Looking through the rest of the entries in the notes, most appear to relate to entries about 
foreign transactions. But there is nothing to suggest that any request to downgrade was 
received from Mr B by letter, telephone or branch visits.
I note that, whilst the case was waiting to be looked at by an ombudsman, the adjudicator 
asked Mrs B if she or Mr B could provide any evidence at all (such as letters from Halifax 
acknowledging Mr Bs letters, copies of emails Mr B mayve sent or itemised phone bills) to 
support the complaint and at least show that Mr B did contact Halifax when he says he did. 
However, unfortunately Mr and Mrs B said that they felt that what theyd already provided 
was enough. But having weighed up what Mr B and Mrs B have said with all of the evidence 
that is available, Im unable to conclude that Halifax did receive an instruction from Mr B to 
downgrade his account and then failed to act on it.
Because of this, I dont think itd be appropriate to require Halifax to refund Mr Bs URCA 
account fees. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr B. But I hope he understands 
the reasons why Ive not been able to find in his favour on this occasion.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman