DRN-3592574
The complaint
Ms J and Mr M complain that Royal &Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has handled
their claim on their home insurance policy poorly and that its settlement offer isnt fair.
What happened
In October 2019, Ms J and Mr M made a claim on their home insurance policy because a
water leak had damaged a bedroom in their flat. The water leak wasnt caused by anything
that had happened inside Ms J and Mr Ms flat.
RSA accepted the claim but said it needed confirmation that the water leak had been fixed
before it could settle it. Ms J contacted two of her neighbours to find and fix the leak. In
February 2020, one of Ms J and Mr Ms neighbours confirmed a leak had been fixed.
Over the next few months, RSA queried with Ms J whether the fix to the water leak was
temporary or permanent. Ms J asked her neighbour to confirm this but, having already fixed
the leak, the neighbour became uncooperative and their relationship deteriorated. By June
2020, RSA accepted Ms J and Mr M had done all they could to confirm the water leak had
been fixed.
RSA then offered Ms J and Mr M a cash settlement for the buildings element of their claim of
£1,338.08 (minus their policy excess of £250). Ms J and Mr M say this isnt enough for them
to get the repairs done. They have quotes from their own contractors of £4,500 and £4,800.
RSA says these quotes are excessive for the work involved.
Ms J and Mr M have complained to us about RSAs handling of their claim and about the
settlement amount it has offered them.
The investigator who looked at Ms J and Mr Ms complaint upheld it in part. He awarded
Ms J and Mr M £200 in compensation for the stress and anxiety RSAs delay in handling
their claim had caused them. But our investigator thought RSAs settlement offer of
£1,338.08 (minus the policy excess) was fair and reasonable.
RSA accepted our investigators findings. But Ms J and Mr M didnt accept them. Among 
other things, they said the settlement figure RSA had offered them didnt cover all the 
damage to the bedroom caused by the leak. So Ms J and Mr Ms complaint came to me to 
decide.
In my provisional decision of 29 June 2022, I explained why, like the investigator who looked 
at Ms J and Mr Ms complaint, I intended to uphold it. But I also said some of the conclusions 
Id reached differed from those of our investigator  so Ms J and Mr M and RSA needed to 
have an opportunity to comment on them. 
In response to my provisional decision, Ms J and Mr M say theyre happy that all the trouble 
theyve had will be settled. RSA says it has no final points it would like to make in relation to 
its case. So Ms J and Mr Ms complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Ms J and Mr Ms complaint. In my provisional decision, I said:
RSA agrees its delay in progressing Ms J and Mr Ms claim caused them distress and
inconvenience. I think RSA is right to do so. The water leak from the neighbouring property
was fixed in February 2020. But it wasnt until June 2020 that RSA accepted this. While RSA
was entitled to ensure the leak had been fixed before progressing the claim, I think it took
too long to do this. Ms J clearly went to a lot of extra trouble to try to satisfy RSAs requests
for confirmation that the repair was permanent. And I can see she also had to chase RSA for
updates on the progress of the claim.
In these circumstances, and as RSA has agreed, I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to
pay Ms J and Mr M £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused
them.
Turning now to the amount RSA has offered Ms J and Mr M to settle their claim. RSAs
obligation is to put Ms J and Mr M back in the position they were in before their bedroom
was damaged by the water leak. Home insurance policy documents normally give an insurer
a choice about how to settle a claim, including an option to settle in cash (rather than, for
example, getting its own approved agents to carry out repairs). RSA hasnt yet sent us a
copy of Ms J and Mr Ms home insurance policy document. But I think its likely it contains a
provision giving RSA the choice to settle Ms J and Mr Ms claim in cash and Im making this
provisional decision on the assumption that it does. If RSA sends me the policy document
and it says something different then I will look at this point again.
In Ms J and Mr Ms case, RSA has told us it decided to settle their claim by making them a
cash payment. As Ive said, I think its likely this is something it can choose to do under the
terms and conditions of Ms J and Mr Ms home insurance policy. But because it is RSA who
want to make Ms J and Mr M a cash settlement (and not Ms J and Mr M who have asked for
one), our approach is to say the amount of RSAs offer should reflect the cost to
Ms J and Mr M of getting the repairs done.
RSAs settlement offer is much lower than the quotes Ms J and Mr M got for getting the
repairs done themselves. Because RSA chose to cash settle Ms J and Mr Ms claim, it
doesnt seem to me that its offer will put Ms J and Mr M back in the position they were in
before the water leak  their quotes show it will cost them more than RSA is offering to do
this. So I dont think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in offering to settle
Ms J and Mr Rs claim based on its scope of works, rather than Ms J and Mr Ms quotes.
RSA has said Ms J and Mr Ms quotes are excessive. It has, for example, commented that
one of the quotes refers to up to six people being on site  and that a small job doesnt
require six people. In contrast, Ms J and Mr M say the scope of works on which RSA has
based its offer only includes external repair, renewing the plaster and repainting the wall.
They refer to RSAs building validation report which says:
Drying is required to the ceiling and walls at high level that are saturated. The walls above
[t]he skirts are also saturated and salts have formed due to ingress over a period of time.
Ms J and Mr M also note that RSAs validation report says there is potential for non-visible
damage  so further damage might be uncovered once the damaged area is stripped back.They say RSAs offer doesnt deal with any non-visible damage or the internal saturation of
the wall. And they say their quotes do. I can see Ms J and Mr Ms quotes cover drying out
works and replastering with a damp solution. And their higher quote of £4,800 covers
removing and refitting a built-in wardrobe, which both Ms J and Mr M and RSA agree hasnt
been dealt with as part of their claim so far.
Im conscious that its now around two and a half years since Ms J and Mr M notified RSA of
their claim. As far as Im aware (and please could Ms J and Mr M let us know if Im wrong
about this), no repairs have been carried out to the bedroom. I acknowledge that RSAs
scope of works is more limited than the quotes Ms J and Mr M have got, so theres
disagreement about the nature of the repairs that are needed here. But this is a relatively
small claim. I think RSA ought reasonably to have settled it long ago. And, in line with our
approach in cases like these, I think the fair and reasonable thing for RSA to do would be to
cash settle the claim based on the cost to Ms J and Mr B of getting the bedroom repaired 
not the cost to RSA.
Based on what Ive seen so far and because it was RSAs choice to cash settle this claim, I
think the fair and reasonable outcome here is to direct RSA to pay Ms J and Mr M £4,800
(minus their policy excess) to settle their claim.
As Ive already said, Ms J and Mr M say theyre happy their complaint is being settled. 
Theyve confirmed that no repairs have been carried out to their home. RSA has said it has 
nothing to add to my provisional decision. And, having looked at everything Ive got, I can 
see no reason to change the findings and conclusions I reached in that decision (as Ive set 
them out above) and these now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision of 29 June 2022, I uphold Ms J and Mr Ms 
complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Ms J and Mr M:
£200 for the distress and inconvenience its delay in handling their claim has caused
them.
£4,800 to settle their claim, minus their policy excess (which I believe is £250).
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay these sums within 28 days of the date 
we tell it Ms J and Mr M have accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited must pay interest at the rate of 8% a year simple on these sums from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman