DRN-2379452
The complaint
Mr M says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 2000 when calling to activate his new credit card.
I sent Mr M and MBNA a provisional decision on 27 October 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Because of all the time thats passed, there isnt still a recording of the call where Mr M was 
sold PPI. But from what Ive seen of MBNAs sales process from the time, staff were 
instructed to explain that PPI was optional, and to only set it up with the customers consent. 
And Ive not seen anything to make it seem likely that this sale differed substantially from the 
normal process. So I think its most likely that MBNA made Mr M aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he 
no longer remembers doing so after so many years.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so they didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
They did have to give Mr M enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information MBNA gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind.
There was a note on Mr Ms credit card application mentioning that he did some self-
employed work on top of his normal job. We asked Mr M about this and chased his 
representative, but havent been able to get any more details. The second job wouldve only 
affected Mr Ms ability to claim on the policy if hed worked at it for 16 hours a week or more. 
But Ive not been given any evidence to suggest that he did so many hours in his second job. 
Mr M hasnt mentioned this other self-employed work elsewhere, which might indicate it 
wasnt that significant. And his recorded income from the time wasnt large enough for me to 
think he was definitely working that many hours at the second job. So at the moment, I dont 
have enough to say that Mr Ms second job wouldve affected his ability to claim.
Otherwise, it looks like Mr M was eligible for the cover, and he doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the key exclusions or limitations. Further, Mr M didnt have any other 
cover aside from the very limited statutory work benefits. So even though this policys benefit 
was low, it looks like it couldve been useful in Mr Ms circumstances. And so I dont currently 
think that better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
25 November 2020. But neither Mr M nor MBNA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that Ive not found this policy to have 
been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman