DRN-3896898
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he acquired with credit from Marsh Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us via a representative but I will refer to him throughout for 
simplicity. 
What happened
Mr W entered into a credit agreement with Marsh in April 2022 via an intermediary to acquire 
a used car. The credit to buy the car was granted by Marsh under a hire purchase 
agreement. Marsh was the owner and Mr W was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As the 
owner of the car bought from the dealership, Marsh was responsible for the quality of the 
car.
The cash price of the car was £10,980 and the total payable under the agreement was 
£18,638. This was to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £310 with a final instalment of 
£320 (all figures rounded). The car was six years old and had been driven 66,668 miles 
when Mr W acquired it. 
Mr W contacted Marsh in July 2022 to complain about the quality of the car. An issue 
remained with the air-conditioning system despite several repair attempts and he wanted to 
end the finance agreement and return the car. 
Marsh organised an independent inspection which found that the air conditioning system 
was inoperative. The report recommended that further investigation and repairs should be 
done at the sales agents cost on the grounds that the air-conditioning system had an 
underlying condition when it was supplied. 
The seller accepted the return of the car and Marsh settled the agreement in early 
September. By then Mr W had made four payments and driven the car approximately 2,300 
miles. Marsh refunded two months payments to Mr W and retained two months payments 
as a usage charge. 
Mr W remained unhappy with his experience and referred his complaint to us. He said that 
the problem had taken too long to sort out and hed paid money for a car which he couldnt 
use. Mr W said that Marsh initially told him that one payment would be retained but he had 
agreed to a deduction of two payments in order to resolve the matter and terminate the 
agreement as quickly as possible. In order to resolve his complaint he wished to have 
another months payment refunded.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that Marsh pay Mr W 
compensation of £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused him. 
They also recommended that Marsh include compensatory interest on the refund of £621 it 
had already paid. This was to acknowledge that Mr W shouldnt have paid this money and so 
had been unfairly deprived of it. 
Mr W accepted this recommendation but Marsh did not. Marsh said that it had supported 
Mr Ws request to reject the car and helped to organise this for him. It said it had acted 
correctly and couldnt have done any more to assist him. Marsh didnt agree that further 
compensation was warranted and asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman for 
review and it has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems all parties have accepted the findings of the independent inspection and it isnt in 
dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr W acquired it. The car has been 
returned and Mr W had been refunded £621 having paid £1,242. 
My main considerations are: was £621 a fair amount for Mr W to pay for the use of the car 
when it was in his possession, given it needed several repairs and wasnt driven for a time? 
Is a separate compensation award appropriate in this case to reflect the impact this 
experience had on Mr W?
Marsh provided its internal complaint records, including the email correspondence it had with 
the broker (and through this the seller) and a recording of a call with Mr W in August in which 
a resolution was agreed. Mr W has provided repair invoices and quotes, amongst other 
information. Ive set out a brief timeline of events for context.  
19 April Agreement start date  mileage 66,668
10 May Fit of new brake pads and new air temperature sensor
25 June Air conditioning system not working - new accumulator motor fitted
4 July Re-gas of the air conditioning system
5 July Mr W complained to Marsh
8 July Air conditioning system not working  repair quote for replacement condenser
25 July Independent inspection  mileage 68,975
9 August Car collected 
31 August Marsh sent a holding letter to Mr W about his complaint
5 September Marsh sent a response letter to Mr W to confirm the agreement termination 
and that the refund would reach his account shortly.
The car was collected on 9 August, about 16 weeks after the agreement began. Mr W made 
four payments in each of the months of May, June, July and August  a total of £1,242 or 
about £78 a week. Ive thought about the weeks Mr W was without the car and the weeks 
where he wasnt able to use it as intended, given the faults he had to deal with. 
When Mr W complained on 5 July he explained that the car had broken down again and had 
a large hole in the radiator. The independent inspection report on 25 July noted that Mr W 
said the car had been parked on the drive since 4 July and that there was a strong chemical-
like smell and the condenser radiator was showing damp patches of green fluid residue. I 
dont know exactly when Mr W stopped driving the car  hes told us that it wasnt driven for 
about two months before it was collected. I think its reasonable to accept that it wasnt made 
use of since the repairs in June  about six weeks. 
It would be fair for Marsh to refund Mr W for the six weeks he didnt use the car  this 
amounts to £458. I think its also fair that Marsh refunds Mr W something for the time he did 
use the car  - about 10 weeks - to reflect that his use of it was impaired. The mileage noted 
in the report was 68,975, so it had been driven just over 2,300 by then which seems to me to 
be an average amount of use. Altogether, I think a refund of 20% of the weekly cost would be fair  this amounts to 10 times £16 or £160. The total refund is therefore about what 
Marsh has already refunded to Mr W. Ive concluded, as our investigator did, that Marsh 
provided a fair and reasonable refund in this case.
Our investigator recommended that Marsh add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund 
as this was money that Mr W shouldnt have paid and was therefore unfairly without. Marsh 
objected to paying any further refund to Mr W, including this interest. To clarify  this 
compensatory interest should be paid on amounts that Mr W shouldnt have paid up to the 
point the refund of £621 was provided, which I understand was sometime in September. Ive 
set out above the overpayments as I see them. The pro rata interest on these overpayments 
is a relatively small amount and I see no reason why Marsh should not pay this to Mr W as 
part of putting things right for him. 
Marsh apologised to Mr W in its final response letter for the fact that he needed to complain 
about the quality of the car and for any inconvenience caused. As set out above Mr W had to 
arrange to have the car repaired three times and obtained a quote for a fourth repair. Marsh 
told the broker in an email on 17 August that Mr W was becoming increasing frustrated and 
worried due to the length of time it was taking to organise the agreement termination. Marsh 
said in another email that Mr W required another car as soon as possible due to work and 
family commitments and had reluctantly accepted the retention of two payments as a 
resolution so that the unwinding of the agreement could be finalised. 
Marsh told us that it had supported Mr Ws request to reject the car and helped to organise 
this for him. It said it had acted correctly and couldnt have done any more to assist him. I 
can understand Marshs perspective on this. I can see from the correspondence between 
Marsh and the broker that it was proactive in trying to resolve Mr Ws complaint. When 
Marsh wasnt able to resolve things for him within eight weeks it sent him a letter to explain 
why and reassure him that it would have the matter resolved very soon for him. 
Notwithstanding Marshs efforts, Mr W experienced distress and inconvenience because he 
was provided with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality and it took some time for this to be 
put right for him. As the owner of the car Marsh was responsible for the quality of it and so 
responsible for providing redress in the event of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. Ive 
concluded that some compensation would be appropriate in this case to reflect the impact 
that this experience had on Mr W. 
There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional impact of 
errors. We have an approach which Ive borne in mind alongside everything else when 
making this decision. This approach (which is set out on our website) says that an award 
between £100 and £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small errors requiring 
a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or 
even weeks, and cause either some distress, inconvenience, disappointment or loss of 
expectation. I think an award in this range would be appropriate.
Our investigator recommended an amount of £100 which seems to me to be a fair and 
reasonable amount in the context of this case and Mr W told us that hes happy to accept 
this. I dont intend to suggest a different amount here. 
Putting things right
Marsh should now:
Pay Mr W an amount of £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused; andEstimate the compensatory interest owed on the refund of £621 already paid from 
the date each overpayment was made up to the point the refund was made at 8% 
simple interest per annum*. 
* If Marsh considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint against Marsh Finance Ltd 
and it now needs to put things right as Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman