DRN-3227688
Complaint
Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
policy with an overdraft linked to her bank account. 
The fact PPI was mis-sold is no longer disputed, but Mrs G found it necessary to complain to 
our Service because she says more redress is owed to her than has been offered. She says 
Barclays hasnt used the right dates to work out how much she is due.
Background
I see that one of our adjudicators provided both parties with a view about this complaint. The 
adjudicator said that they thought we should uphold the complaint because the redress had 
been calculated by Barclays on the basis that Mrs Gs overdraft had been covered by PPI 
from 1998 until 2016. The adjudicator said, it should have been calculated from 10 years 
earlier i.e. from 1988 to 2016.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has come to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having done this, Im upholding the complaint.
This is a relatively straightforward issue. In calculating how much Mrs G should be paid back 
in redress Barclays said it could only see Mrs G had been paying for the PPI since February 
1998  this was the first statement still available for her bank account which had the 
overdraft facility. So Barclays says its reasonable to use this date as a starting point for 
adding up how much redress she is due. It agreed to pay her £1,124.12 for all the PPI 
charges and interest.
However, when Barclays was asked by us to demonstrate the whole duration of Mrs Gs 
bank account, these records showed that she had the account since 22 February 1988. I 
also note, however, this particular data set said shed only had the account covered by PPI 
since August 1998, a date we know to be incorrect, because of the account statements Ive 
mentioned above; these showed Mrs G been charged for PPI for at least six months before 
August 1998. A PPI charge was listed in her February 1998 bank statement.
I think its therefore reasonable to point out that Barclays records in this regard cant be 
wholly relied upon. We also know she had her overdraft in place for some 10 years prior to 
when Barclays is now willing to compensate Mrs G for. Barclays says theres no evidence to 
suggest she had any PPI before February 1998.
However, I think Barclays is acting unfairly here because there is also no evidence that she 
didnt have any PPI on the account either. And I dont think Mrs G should be expected to 
come up with such evidence from over 30 years ago, when Barclays records have already 
shown to be wrong. I think in these circumstances, its more reasonable to say she always 
had PPI with the overdraft facility.
Its unfortunate that February 1998 is the first bank statement we have access to. But given 
the other inaccuracy  which says Mrs Gs account didnt have PPI until August 1998  Im 
going to find in her favour. In short, Barclays cant show me accurately when the PPI was 
added to her account and so the starting point should be from when she opened her bank 
account with the overdraft facility. 
The PPI mis-sale should be calculated from 22 February 1988 to 3 March 2016, when it 
closed.
What Barclays should do now
Barclays has already admitted it mis-sold the PPI policy to Mrs G. It initially agreed to 
pay her £1,124.12 in redress, but this now needs to be increased because the 
relevant starting date is from 22 February 1988. 
It also needs to add 8% interest in accordance with the approach we expect, until it 
finally pays the full amount due.
Barclays should clearly explain to Mrs G how it has re-calculated this new amount.
Final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to promptly carry out the compensation payments as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman