DRN-4277999
The complaint
Mr S complains that Motability Operations Limited didnt provide the service it should have. 
He says this meant he was unable to secure a vehicle through the Motability Operations 
scheme (the Scheme) for an extended period of time which had a major impact on his life.
What happened
Mr S visited a dealership in February 2021 to look for a car that was suitable for his needs. 
The dealership agreed a £200 discount on the advance payment reducing it to £3,799. Mr S 
paid a holding deposit to the dealership of £500.
Mr S has explained he has autism and became aware of his eligibility for the Scheme. Under 
the Scheme an eligible claimant can exchange their qualifying mobility allowance for a car 
(the mobility allowance also covers the costs of insurance, breakdown cover, tyres and 
servicing and MOTs). Mr S applied for the Scheme on 9 February 2021. Mr S also decided 
to apply for a grant from a charity after it was suggested as an option. There were issues 
with receiving the grant for the car Mr S had chosen and in regard to the extras he wanted to 
assist with his needs. Because of this an alternative car was suggested for Mr S and he 
agreed to this. In April 2021, Mr Ss application for the car was approved and he received a 
letter from the charity saying he had been awarded a £3,999 grant.
Although the dealership had assessed the car as suitable for Mr Ss needs, the charity 
required him to undertake an extended test drive in a demonstrator model. Mr S says he 
wasnt given any information about any liability that might arise from the test drive and 
instead was told it was being provided as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S test drove the demonstrator model on 5 and 6 May 2021 and unfortunately had an 
accident. This accident was subsequently accepted to not be Mr Ss fault. The charity 
contacted Mr S to say a block had been placed on his account while the insurers reviewed 
the situation. This remained in place until September 2021.
Motability Operations says it placed a block on Mr Ss account at the request of the charity. It 
says this was to prevent the handover of the car happening before the issues with the charity 
had been resolved. Motability Operations accepts that there was a call from the charity to 
request the block be lifted in September 2021 and said at the time Mr Ss application was 
still pending and he would have needed to cancel this first application before being able to 
place an order for a different vehicle. Following the identification that the block should have 
been lifted, this happened in August 2022 and the application was cancelled and Mr Ss 
deposit refunded 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He didnt think that Motability Operations did anything 
wrong when it was initially asked to place a block on Mr Ss account. However, he thought it 
made a mistake by not lifting the block in September 2021. He considered how Mr S could 
be put back in the position he would have been had the mistake not happened. He noted the 
car Mr S had wanted was no longer available through the Scheme but given the 
circumstances he thought Motability Operations should still source this car through the 
Scheme for Mr S.
Our investigator also considered the impact the delay in the block being removed had on 
Mr S. He noted Mr Ss autism and understood this meant the issue had an additional impact 
on him. Because of this he recommended that Motability Operations pay Mr S £900 
compensation. He also noted the delay in Mr Ss deposit being refunded and recommended 
that Mr S be paid 8% interest on the deposit amount from 10 September 2021 to 4 August 
2022. Our investigator didnt think that Motability Operations was required to cover the cost 
of Mr Ss hire costs or any costs associated with his delayed education.
Motability Operations agreed to the £900 compensation but said it shouldnt be required to 
pay interest on the deposit amount. It said that the car Mr S had previously wanted was 
manufactured by a company that was no longer part of the Scheme and so this car could no 
longer be provided. It said Mr S was welcome to apply for another car on the Scheme.
Our investigator responded to Motability Operations comment about the interest on the 
deposit amount. He said it wasnt unreasonable that a deposit would remain in place while 
the application was still in the system but thought the extended period involved in this case 
meant the deposit was held for longer than was reasonable. He noted that the consumer 
was required to cancel the application but thought Motability Operations should have taken 
some responsibility in this case and should have informed Mr S that the car he applied for 
was no longer available. Because of this he agreed that Motability Operations wasnt 
required to pay interest on the deposit amount but instead said the compensation should be 
increased by £50.
Mr S didnt think the redress offered was sufficient. He said that Motability Operations should 
be responsible for all the damages in this case which included his travel costs and loss of a 
years education and costs of retaking exams. He said that all damages needed to be paid to 
put him back in the position he would have been but for the mistreatment he had received. 
Mr S said that he had contacted the dealership in October and November 2021 when his 
application manager still wasnt able to access his account due to the block. He then made 
contact in February 2022, 21 July 2022, and 25 July 2022, and his order still wasnt able to 
proceed. He said he couldnt be expected to do any more and that he should be refunded all 
costs incurred due to the extended period the block was applied.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below:
There are several parties involved in the issues that have led to Mr Ss complaint. Mr S has 
raised concerns about the actions taken by the parties and the service they have provided. 
He has explained that he has autism which means the lack of a suitable vehicle and the 
anxiety caused by the ongoing complaint has had a material impact.
I am sorry to hear about the experience Mr S has had, the impact this has had on his studies 
and the anxiety he has been caused. However, I need to be clear that this complaint is about 
Motability Operations and so this decision only considers the actions Motability Operations is 
responsible for or can reasonably be held responsible for. I also want to explain that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator but an informal dispute resolution service. 
My role is to consider each case based on its individual merits. I will take relevant law, 
regulations, and guidance into account, but my decision is based on what I consider fair and 
reasonable given the unique circumstances of the complaint.
Mr Ss grant was approved by the charity in April 2021 and a hire agreement was set up with 
Motability Operations. Mr S had an extended test drive in the car and unfortunately had an 
accident while on the test drive. Because of this the charity contacted Motability Operations 
to place a block on Mr Ss application. I note Mr Ss comments about the test drive being a gesture of goodwill, the grant already having been agreed and that the accident wasnt his 
fault. If he has concerns about how the charity acted in response to this issue these should 
be raised separately with it, and I note a complaint has been dealt with separately in regard 
to the insurer. So, coming back to the actions of Motability Operations, given the contact 
from the charity asking for a block to be applied to the application and the reasons provided 
for this, I do not find that Motability Operations did anything wrong at this stage by applying 
the block.
There was then a period when the charity was investigating the situation to decide its 
position regarding any grant. To be clear, the charitable grant and the hire agreement while 
linked in regard to Mr Ss initial application, werent interdependent. By this I mean that Mr S 
could have made an application for a car through the Scheme without a charitable grant.
The charity has said that it contacted Motability Operations in September 2021 to say the 
block should be lifted. Unfortunately, there isnt a copy of the call available of when this 
request was made but, it has been accepted that this happened and so I find it reasonable to 
accept that action should have been taken at that time to remove the block. Unfortunately, 
this didnt happen, and Mr Ss account remained blocked until August 2022. At this time Mr S 
was contacted to say he could continue with his application. I find this was a mistake made 
by Motability Operations and it meant that Mr S was prevented from getting a car under the 
Scheme for 11 months longer than he should have been.
Compensation
Motability Operations has said that Mr S wasnt financially disadvantaged because of the 
delay as he was still receiving his mobility allowance. While I accept this point, the delay in 
the block being removed meant that Mr S was unable to access the Scheme for around 11 
months longer than should have been the case. The Scheme offers a package including the 
use of the car, servicing, insurance and MOTs and this will have been particularly beneficial 
to Mr S given his needs. So, while Mr S was still getting his mobility benefits and so could 
pay for alternative transport, this would have resulted in incremental bookings / costs, 
involved extra work and planning and not provided the flexibility or benefits having a car 
through the Scheme would provide.
Additional to this, Mr S had spent a considerable amount of time on his original application, 
including identifying a vehicle that was suitable for him. Hell no longer be able to get the 
vehicle under the Motability Scheme as its a vehicle thats no longer offered. He will, in other 
words, have to start a fresh application if he wants to apply now the block has been lifted. 
The delay for this is a large part due to Motability Operations.
Taking the above factors into account, I think that Motability Operations should pay Mr S 
compensation of £1,000. While I understand Mr S is likely to consider this not enough, I think 
it is reasonable taking into account the mistake Motability Operations made and the direct 
impact of this on Mr S.
Based on the evidence weve received to date I do not consider that Motability Operations is 
liable for the costs Mr S has noted in terms of his ongoing education and exam retakes. 
While I understand the impact this issue has had on Mr S and that it has distracted him from 
other parts of his life, having considered the contact he had with the dealer and the limited 
contact with Motability Operations I dont think this supports the claim that this issue took 
such time that Mr S was unable to continue with his studies or that this was the sole reason 
for any exam retakes. Also, the limited contact meant that Motability Operations was 
unaware of the issue and so didnt have any opportunity to mitigate it. That said, the overall 
impact of this issue has been considered and reflected in the compensation award of 
£1,000.But, if evidence is provided to show that the mistake made by Motability Operations is the 
only reason why Mr S needed to retake exams and that this resulted in a lost year of 
education (the timing of this and the amounts involved) this can be considered further.
New car
While Mr S was able to access the Scheme in August 2022, by this time the car he had 
initially chosen which included premium plus and it had been agreed sensory lighting could 
be added (subject to certain requirements) was no longer available. I agree that Motability 
Operations should only be required to offer cars from within the Scheme and if Mr S no 
longer wishes to use the Scheme then that is his choice.
In the event Mr S wishes to lease a car through the Scheme, Motability Operations should 
prioritise his application and work with him (directly or through the dealership) to identify a 
car that best suits his needs (including the features of the premium plus package and 
sensory lighting that was previously agreed unless these are superfluous given the car he 
has chosen).
Discrimination
Mr S says that he feels Motability Operations has discriminated against him. While we take 
any allegation of discrimination seriously, I should first explain that we are an informal 
dispute resolution service, meaning we dont have the power to decide whether or not 
Motability Operations is in breach of the Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to 
do this. What we can do is take relevant law and regulation into account when deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
Mr S feels that Motability Operations didnt take into consideration his needs and how the 
correspondence and treatment of his complaint has affected him. I can understand why Mr S 
feels this way. However, I can also see that once Mr S explained his needs to Motability 
Operations it responded in a positive way. So, in this case, I agree that there are lessons for 
Motability Operations to learn in terms of how best to deal with customers with autism or 
other complex needs. But, overall, I think the compensation award of £1,000 is enough to 
reflect the issues that Mr S has raised.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision. He said that he wanted Motability Operations to 
provide him with the same car that was originally agreed. He said that this should happen 
outside of the Scheme. He believed Motability Operations had done this before for other 
customers and by not providing this option to him he was being discriminated against. Mr S 
reiterated that his education had been disrupted by him having to deal with this issue and 
sent information about this. Mr S raised other concerns including a threatening letter he had 
been sent not being referenced in the provisional decision and that the initial block on his 
account (placed by the charity) was for too long. He also didnt think the amount of 
compensation was sufficient. 
Motability Operations responded to the provisional decision. It agreed to pay £1,000 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. It noted that as Mr S had 
requested his personal details be removed it would need assistance from this service in 
facilitating this payment. 
Motability Operations said that if Mr S wished to re-join the Scheme it would invite him to 
work with the dealerships to ascertain which vehicle would be most suitable for his needs. It 
said that it would ensure his application was processed as quickly as possible but noted that 
if Mr S applied for a new vehicle this would be subject to the manufacturers lead times. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the calls between Mr S and our investigator made in response to my 
provisional decision and the additional call Mr S has provided. I have also looked again at 
the information Mr S has sent and considered the comments provided by Motability 
Operations. Having done so the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision havent 
changed. 
I appreciate that Mr S doesnt consider compensation of £1,000 to be sufficient. But having 
taken into account the mistake made by Motability Operations, the impact this has had and 
what I can reasonably hold Motability Operations responsible for I find that £1,000 
compensation is reasonable.
I understand that Mr S thinks he should receive redress to reflect hire car costs while he was 
locked out of the Scheme. I considered this and in my provisional decision noted that Mr S 
was still getting his mobility benefits and so could pay for alternative transport. So I do not 
find that hire car costs need to eb refunded. However I also noted that using alternative 
transport would have resulted in incremental bookings / costs, involved extra work and 
planning and not provided the flexibility or benefits having a car through the Scheme would 
provide and the inconvenience and upset this caused has been reflected in my assessment 
of compensation.
I understand that dealing with this issue meant Mr S was distracted from other parts of his 
life and I do not underestimate the stress an upset he has been caused. But I do not find that 
I have evidence to support him losing a years education solely due to this issue and I do not 
find that the contact he made with Motability Operations during the period when his account 
was wrongly on hold was such that it would have suggested Mr S wasnt able to focus on 
anything else, or that it gave Motability Operations reasonable opportunity to mitigate any 
issues. While I do not find that Mr Ss claim for costs of education should be upheld, I have 
factored the overall impact his issue has had on him into my assessment of compensation. 
Mr S said that no mention was made in my provisional decision of the threatening letter he 
received. I note his comment and while I didnt make specific mention of this I did consider 
how Mr S had been treated and took into account the impact this had when assessing the 
amount of reasonable compensation.  
As I set out in my provisional decision we take any allegation of discrimination seriously, but 
we dont have the power to decide whether or not Motability Operations is in breach of the 
Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to do this. Mr S asked that I specifically 
reference that he feels Motability Operations has violated the Equality Act 2010. I 
understand his strength of feeling in regard to this and it will be his decision as to whether he 
takes this further. As I previously noted I think that there are lessons for Motability 
Operations to learn in terms of how best to deal with customers with autism or other complex 
needs. But, overall, I think that the compensation of £1,000 that I set out in my provisional 
decision is reasonable in regard to the issues raised. 
I understand that Mr S wants Motability Operations to provide him with the same car that 
was agreed in his first application. Unfortunately, Motability Operations has explained that 
the manufacturer is no longer part of the Scheme. Motability Operations runs a Scheme that 
provides many advantages for the user and there are different cars available. While I expect 
Motability Operations to work with Mr S if he wishes, I do not require it to provide a car outside of the Scheme. I say this because I find it reasonable that Motability Operations is 
required to provide a remedy that is within its usual business operations as this is something 
it can reasonably control and deliver. 
Mr S has said the additional features he had agreed as part of the negotiation for his initial 
vehicle mean that he needs to have a vehicle by the same manufacturer. I appreciate that 
due to Mr Ss autism it is particularly important that he has a car with an operating system he 
is familiar with. The information provided from his autism expert further explains that people 
with autism often experience elevated anxiety and can experience sensory processing 
difficulties which impact on what they need in their environment. It also notes Mr Ss chronic 
back pain. I note this comment and I set out in my provisional decision that we would expect 
Mr S to receive the features he had previously agreed, to the extent this is possible. 
However, I do not find that this means Mr S has to have a vehicle from the same 
manufacturer, rather that the dealership should work with him to identify the best fit to suit 
his needs, taking into account the previous additional requirements he has raised and had 
agreed. 
Motability Operations has said that if Mr S wished to re-join the Scheme it would invite him to 
work with the dealerships to ascertain which vehicle would be most suitable for his needs. It 
said that it would ensure his application was processed as quickly as possible but noted that 
if Mr S applied for a new vehicle this would be subject to manufacturer lead times. I find this 
reasonable, and I would expect Motability Operations to provide Mr S with any assistance it 
can to ensure the application process is both smooth and completed in a timely way.
Putting things right
Motability Operations should take the actions set out below:
1. Pay Mr S £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by losing out on 
the benefits of the Motability Operations scheme. This amount is based on a 
consideration of the specific nature of Mr Ss needs and the subsequent impact this 
loss of benefit will have had.
2. In the event Mr S wishes to lease a car through the Motability Operations scheme, 
Motability Operations should ensure his application is processed quickly and support 
Mr S working with the dealerships to identify a car that best suits his needs. It should 
also ensure that the car includes the features that had previously been part of his 
vehicle choice or equivalent features to deliver the same outcome unless these are 
superfluous given the car he has chosen.
3. If Mr S chooses not to use the Scheme that is his choice, and part 2 of the redress 
becomes redundant, but Motability Operations is still required to pay the 
compensation noted above in part 1.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Motability Operations Limited should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman