DRN-3856261
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Vitality Health Limiteds private health insurance policy wasnt fit 
for their purpose and about its service. My reference to Vitality includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out private health insurance insured by Vitality through a broker. The 
policy was to cover from 1 December 2021 to 30 November 2022. 
Mr and Mrs S previously had a health insurance policy with another insurer, which Ill refer to 
as X. They say they switched to Vitalitys policy as the broker told them they would get the 
same cover as Xs policy at a lower price. Vitalitys policy was written on a continued 
personal medical exclusions (CPME) basis which meant the underwriting was carried over 
from their previous policy with X.
Mr and Mrs S complain that the Vitality policy wasnt fit for their purpose. In summary they 
say:
They werent able to access Vitalitys online service as they needed to enter a 
security code sent to them by text that had to be used within 15 minutes. Due to the 
poor mobile signal where they lived they didnt get the code until several hours too 
late.
When Mrs S spoke to Vitality about the problem on 30 December 2021 it didnt call 
back on 4 January 2022 when it said it would. Mrs S had to call Vitality and was only 
given a one off solution to access the online service as the Vitality representative 
used her own mobile phone to get the code for them to use. Vitality didnt offer any 
alternative for how to access its system. When they bought the policy they werent 
told Vitality operated through an online system.
Mrs S couldnt get through to Vitality when she phoned it many times on 3 and 
4 February 2022.
On 7 February 2022 Mrs S spoke to Vitality to request a pre-authorisation code for a 
referral to a consultant for her cough. Mr and Mrs S were unhappy Vitality asked her 
questions about her symptoms and wanted her medical information, which they 
thought might lead to a potential breach of patient confidentiality. They were also 
unhappy the Vitality representatives Mrs S spoke to werent medical clinicians.
They were concerned Vitality might potentially sell Mrs S personal medical 
information. 
Vitality didnt send them policy documents. It had incorrectly said they had selected 
contact through its online member zone' but they asked for paper documents when 
they bought the policy. 
The policy didnt provide what they thought they had bought.
Due to the above issues Mr and Mrs S cancelled Vitalitys policy in February 2022. They 
returned to X for health insurance. They said theyd paid the backdated premiums for Xs 
policy so paid premiums to both insurers for the 1 December 2021 to 22 February 2022 
period. Mr and Mrs S want Vitality to refund the premiums from the start of its policy.
Vitality didnt agree to refund the premiums. In summary it said:
When it made its welcome call to Mrs S on 30 December 2021 it said it would call 
her back on 4 January 2022 with a solution to activating the online member zone. It 
accepted it didnt call her back at the agreed time and apologised.
When Mrs S called on 4 January it set up her access to the online member zone 
using the one-time security code. From then on to access the member zone, policy 
benefits and policy documentation Mrs S just had to log in with her email address 
and the password shed set-up, there would be no need to input a security code 
again. Mrs S had confirmed in the call she could access her apps. After 4 January 
2022 Mr and Mrs S didnt tell it they couldnt access the online member zone.
It accepted it had a high number of telephone calls when Mrs S tried to call on 3 and 
4 February 2022.
Mr and Mrs S poor mobile phone signal at home was outside of its control. The 
contact  preferences had been set to email, so Mr and Mrs S should have been told 
by the broker when the policy was sold that all of the information about the policy 
would be on the online member zone. 
When Mrs S registered her claim on 7 February 2022 it had asked her relevant 
questions and for relevant medical documents so it could make a claim assessment 
and decide if her claim was covered. The policy terms said it could ask for a 
policyholders medical information. 
It wouldnt breach the privacy of, or sell, a policyholders private medical information. 
It had waived the usual £40 administration fee for cancellation of the policy. It had 
offered a hamper to acknowledge Mr and Mrs S distress and inconvenience due to 
not calling her at the agreed time and the long call wait time but Mr and Mrs S had 
rejected the offer. 
It wouldnt refund the policy premiums as it had provided cover from 1 December 
2021 to the policy cancellation on 22 February 2022.
Our investigator said Vitality should pay £100 compensation for Mr and Mrs S distress and 
inconvenience due to its service issues. Vitality didnt need to refund the premiums as it had 
been on risk for claims in the relevant period. Mr and Mrs S had made a complaint to us 
about X because X had excluded pneumonia from cover under its renewed policy as Mrs S 
had told it she had pneumonia during its policy lapse period. Mrs S had made a pre-
authorisation claim to Vitality for a cough on 7 February 2022 and although she chose not to 
progress the claim under that policy Vitality had been on risk during the time Mr and Mrs S 
paid premiums for its policy.
Neither party agreed our investigators recommendation. Vitality said it shouldnt have to pay 
the £100 compensation. Mr and Mrs S said:
As they werent sent the policy document they didnt know about the policy term 
Vitality relied on to ask for Mrs S medical information.
Theyd bought the policy with Vitality on the basis they would have the same cover 
they had with X, with no exceptions. They hadnt been able to use the online member zone for the Vitality policy and as 
the policy wasnt fit for their needs the premium should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S bought Vitalitys policy through a broker. From the evidence Ive seen that 
broker was independent, not acting on Vitalitys behalf. That means some of the issues Mr 
and Mrs S have raised - that they were wrongly told Vitalitys policy was a like for like with 
Xs policy, their contact preference being set to email and how the policy worked online 
which didnt suit them  are issues they need to complain to the broker about. On the 
evidence I have Vitality isnt responsible for those issues. And it isnt responsible for the 
mobile signal problems Mr and Mrs S had at their home.
I think Vitality should pay Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience due to the service issues it is responsible for. It doesnt need to refund the 
policy premiums. Ill explain why.
Vitality accepts it didnt call back Mrs S on 4 January as arranged. It also accepts Mrs S 
wasnt able to contact it by phone for two days, which wasnt acceptable particularly as she 
wanted to make a claim. Mrs S was clearly frustrated and annoyed by both events. Vitality 
offered a hamper to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience but I think that instead of 
the hamper a compensation payment for £100 is more appropriate and a reasonable amount 
in all the circumstances. 
I think the remainder of Vitalitys service was fair and reasonable for the following reasons: 
After Mr and Mrs S initial problem in accessing the online member zone, which they 
only told Vitality about on 30 December, it resolved the problem in the 4 January call. 
Vitality said Mr and Mrs S didnt need to input a texted security code for future 
access. Ive no evidence Vitality made that clear to Mrs S in the 4 January call, which 
would have been reasonable to do. However, Ive also no evidence Mr and Mrs S 
contacted Vitality after 4 January to say they were still having online access problems 
until they complained. So I think Vitality wasnt responsible for any access problems 
before 30 December 2021 and after 4 January 2022 as it didnt know about, and had 
no opportunity to fix, the problem. 
When Mrs S called to make her claim Im satisfied that the medical information 
Vitality asked for was in line with the policy terms and reasonable. Mr and Mrs S say 
they werent sent the policy terms. But as Mr and Mrs S contact preference had been 
set to email (by the broker it appears) Vitality reasonably sent them the policy 
documents through the online member zone. Even if the email contact preference 
was set up by Vitality, theres no record of Mr and Mrs S telling Vitality they didnt 
have access to the policy documents before the 30 December or after the online 
access was set up on 4 January until they complained. I think Vitality reasonably 
understood Mr and Mrs S had access to the policy documents until it was told 
otherwise.
The relevant policy terms say:
Getting authorisation for your treatment
Sometimes, particularly if you claim in the first one or two years after joining 
us, we may need you to send us a fully completed claim form to help us 
assess your claim. We will normally ask for details of your medical history for 
at least the previous five years, with sections for both you and your GP to complete....we will be unable to assess the claim or pay for any treatment 
before we receive the claim form.
As Mrs S wanted to make a claim two months after she took out the policy Vitality 
could fairly ask her for all the information set out in the policy terms, but it asked for 
less. Where a claim is made on a recently taken out CPME policy its not unusual for 
insurers to ask for similar information. Mrs S says X wouldnt have asked for the 
medical information but, even if thats correct, that doesnt mean Vitalitys request 
was unreasonable.
Mrs S says she could speak to medical clinicians if she claimed on her previous 
policy with X and she didnt want to speak to Vitalitys non-medical staff about her 
medical matters. But its not unusual for insurers to have non-medical staff to ask for 
medical information so they can do an initial assessment of the eligibility of a claim 
against the policy terms. Its for Vitality to decide which staff it uses to obtain the 
information but I dont think the process was unusual or unreasonable. 
Ive seen no evidence to support Mr and Mrs S concerns that giving Mrs S medical 
information to Vitality would mean patient confidentially might be breached and that 
Vitality might sell Mrs S personal medical information. Vitality says its privacy notice 
would have been one of the documents sent to Mr and Mrs S though the online 
member zone. Ive explained above that I think Vitality didnt do anything wrong in 
sending Mr and Mrs S the documents online.
Mr and Mrs S decided not to continue the policy as it didnt suit them, which was their 
choice to make. I note Vitality waived the usual £40 administration fee for 
cancellation of the policy, which was fair in all the circumstances.
The issue of whether Vitality should refund the premiums for 1 December 2021 to the date of 
policy cancellation on 22 February 2022 depends on whether Vitality was at risk of claims 
during that period and on the evidence Ive seen I think it was.  
The policy payment schedule from X, dated 7 February 2022, that Ive seen says the 
premium payment for Xs renewed policy started from 21 February 2022. So on that 
evidence Mr and Mrs S werent paying two lots of premiums from 1 December 2021 to 
21 February 2022. 
Even if Mr and Mrs S did pay the backdated premiums on Xs policy, so were paying both 
insurers and were insured by both insurers for that period, X applied an exclusion for 
pneumonia to its policy as Mrs S told X she had pneumonia in December 2021, during Xs 
lapsed policy period. So I think Vitality would have been on risk for a claim, for at least that 
condition, subject to the policy terms and conditions.
In Mr and Mrs S complaint about X Mrs S has now raised that she told X the wrong date 
about when her pneumonia started, she should have said it started in November 2021 so 
was covered by her policy with X. I understand Mr and Mrs S have raised a new complaint 
with X about that issue.
If the result of Xs investigations is that it removes the exclusion for pneumonia on its policy 
from 1 December 2021 and Mr and Mrs S have evidence from X that they were fully covered 
by X for the period 1 December 2021 to 22 February 2022 they can send that new evidence 
to Vitality and ask it to reconsider their request for refund of its premiums.
On the evidence I have Vitality doesnt need to refund the policy premiums from 1 December 
2021 to 22 February 2022.
Putting things rightVitality must pay Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation for their distress and inconvenience 
caused by its service issues.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £100 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience caused by its service issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman