DRN-3377922
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was given poor advice by County Capital Wealth Management
Limited trading as The Pension Review Service (CC) to transfer the benefits from his
defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22
December 2017.
Mr L contacted another firm (WW) in March and May 2017. They had discussions about a
possible transfer. Mr L completed a pension transfer questionnaire in August 2017 in which
he said he didnt trust British Steel with his pension and would prefer to leave their scheme
to have access to his pension as and when. He said it was very important to preserve his
pension value. He wanted low risk for at least the first year, he then might change the
amount of risk taken after the annual review. Tax-free cash (TFC) was not important to him
at the time, but circumstances could change and he would want to know he had flexibility. It
was very important to him that his wife would receive all his pension pot on his death. Mr L
marked the ability to retire early and the security of his pension fund as his highest priorities.
The BSPS transfer value increased twice between then and September 2017. WW advised
Mr L to transfer to a personal pension in October 2017. However, on 18 December 2017,
they informed him they couldnt complete the transfer for him due to restrictions to their
regulatory permissions. They explained that if he still wanted to transfer he had to make
alternative arrangements. They referred Mr L to CC for advice.
CC completed their own fact find in January 2018. This showed Mr L was 55, married, in
good health and was earning around £38,000 per year. His wife was 52 and on a salary of
£26,000. The couple had savings of at least £66,000 (Mr L told CC in January 2018 this was
£70,000), a mortgage free home and a holiday home abroad with a mortgage of £20,000. Mr
Ls wife also had a 50% share of her mothers property which was valued at £200,000. The
form showed that Mr L and his wife had a joint monthly net income of around £5,332 and
monthly outgoings of £2,046. Both he and his wife wanted to retire at age 60. Mr Ls risk
profile was recorded as lowest medium. Mr L completed another transfer questionnaire. In
response to the question why he was considering a transfer he said: I do not trust the
scheme and wish to have complete control of my pension. I have other assets to rely on.
On 9 January 2018, CC advised Mr L to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension
and invest his funds through a discretionary fund manager (DFM). The suitability report said
the reasons for this recommendation were that it would allow Mr L to receive the maximum
TFC lump sum and defer income until a later date; it would secure the transfer value as a
financial asset which he could access flexibly from age 58; CCs cashflow analysis had
shown his financial position would potentially improve and the new arrangement would
provide greater death benefits for his family. The report also mentioned that Mr L had just
placed a deposit on a property which was valued at £95,000 and he would use the remaining
TFC to refurbish it as he wanted to rent it out for £550 per month.
Mr L transferred his DB benefits in March 2018 and took TFC of around £139,000. He
complained in 2019, through his representatives, about the suitability of the transfer advice.
After CC rejected his complaint, Mr L referred his complaint to this service. He also made a
separate complaint against WW. WW has since gone into liquidation and so this service
cannot consider the complaint against them anymore.
An investigator thought the advice CC gave Mr L was unsuitable. She thought CC should
have recommended Mr L to stay in the BSPS. However, she said correspondence in form of
emails and text messages provided by WW and CC showed that Mr L was very motivated to
transfer his pension. He had put down a property deposit of £8,000 in late 2017 which he
was concerned he would lose if he didnt go ahead with the purchase. After the advice to
transfer had been given, it seems he had decided to buy a second property. Mr L had
chased for the transfer to go through on several occasions and had asked when he would
receive the TFC.
The investigator thought that overall Mr L likely would have transferred anyway, no matter
what CC had told him, so she didnt think it would be fair to hold CC responsible for any
potential losses Mr L suffered by transferring his DB pension.
Mr Ls representatives disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr Ls representatives and CC have provided detailed submissions which Ive seen and 
considered in full. I previously issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Both parties provided further comments which Ive considered. Having done so, I still think 
the advice provided by CC was unsuitable and that the decision to uphold this complaint is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why.Provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said the following:
The starting assumption when advising on a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is
unsuitable. CC should have only considered a transfer if they could clearly demonstrate that
the transfer was in Mr Ls best interest (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence
available, Im not satisfied it was. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The documents from the time of advice show that Mr L was looking to retire at age 60. The
transfer analysis report made comparisons to Mr Ls benefits once BSPS had moved to the
PPF. It showed that the average annual investment return required in the new pension to
match the PPF benefits at age 60 (critical yield) was 7.22% per year.
The closest discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by the
Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. It was 3.0% per year
for 4 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. I've
taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate and Mr Ls
attitude to risk.
There have been disagreements between Mr Ls representatives and CC whether Mr L was
a low medium risk investor or whether he was more cautious. Either way, I think it was
unlikely Mr L would have been able to match, let alone exceed his DB benefits in the
personal pension if he was invested in line with a low or low-medium risk strategy.
Ive also considered CCs cash flow analysis which they say showed Mr L could have been
significantly better off in the personal pension plan. They compared his existing situation with
scenarios where his transfer value grew a) only in line with inflation, b) assuming returns of
the recommended investment portfolio based on historic returns and c) a stress test where
the transfer value fell by 14% in the first couple of years and then performed in line with
historic returns of the asset allocation of the recommended portfolio.
I firstly note that in the model for Mr Ls existing financial position, CC failed to include the
annual increases on Mr Ls BSPS benefits in payment. Also, as CC will know, past
performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and
the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather
than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. CCs
models also show that if returns were only in line with inflation Mr Ls financial assets would
actually be lower in the long-term than if he kept his DB pension.
I also considered that Mr L wanted a retirement income of about £20,000 from age 60. He
reconfirmed this in a phone call with CC in March 2018. The transfer analysis report showed
the PPF would have provided Mr L with a TFC lump sum of £105,417 and an annual pension
of £15,812. Mr L could have easily topped up his salary to £20,000 using around £30,000 ofhis TFC until age 67 after which his state pension would have started. Its also clear from the
fact find that Mr and Mrs L could have paid for their outgoings with Mrs Ls salary alone and
she was looking to retire three years later than Mr L. So I think there was even the possibility
that Mr L and his wife might not have even needed the full £20,000 from Mr Ls pension from
age 60. I cant see this was discussed or properly explained.
I then considered Mr Ls apparent wish to buy a property. I note that the documents Mr L
completed with WW earlier in 2017 didnt make any reference to this and taking a TFC was
recorded as something that wasnt important to him. There since have been differing
accounts about Mr Ls plans to purchase property. Mr L, through his representatives, says
he didnt want to buy an investment property. He was planning to buy a house for his grown 
up children and says he was planning to do this from his savings. However, WW persuaded
him to use his TFC for this purpose. Mr L provided evidence from solicitors that he had
purchased a house for about £75,000 in May/June 2018. He says he could have financed
this by using his savings and he could have either borrowed the small remaining balance
from friends and family or taken out a mortgage on his unencumbered home. He says his
sons live in the property and dont pay him any rent.
Mr L also says he didnt pay a deposit in December 2017 or January 2018. His
representatives say he might have said in a text message he had paid a deposit on the basis
that WW had told him this was a good idea, but this was because he was worried about the
PPF and making sure this was being avoided and not because he had actually paid a
deposit.
Text messages provided by WW show that Mr L asked in late November 2017 and early
December 2017 about when he would get TFC as he had the estate agent on his back and
estate agent was doing his head in. He was asking WW to provide a letter to the estate
agent confirming the money would become available. Ive seen an email from WW to the
estate agent a couple of days later confirming that Mr L did have the funds available to buy a
specific property. The estate agent replied to say they had issued the Memorandum of Sales
that day (6 December).
So Im satisfied that Mr L was preparing to buy a property at the time he was referred to CC.
Ive also seen emails between CC and Mr L in early January 2018 where the adviser asked
Mr L about the future rental income from his new property and Mr L said it would be £550
per month. He also said the remainder of the TFC would possibly go towards another
property also providing rental income of £550 per month. So his testimony now that the new
property was never meant to be rented contradicts this.
I also note that the evidence Mr L provided to show he had bought a property in May/June
2018 was for a different address than mentioned in the email to the estate agent in
December. And in a phone call in March 2018, Mr L mentioned to CC on the phone that he
had bought a couple of properties. So the evidence I have at the moment suggests he likely
bought two different properties.
I appreciate the suitability report mentioned Mr L didnt want to take out a further mortgage
as he didnt want to have more debt in retirement and he didnt want to use savings. Whilst
this might have been Mr Ls preference and it was recorded he saw using the TFC as the
most viable option, I cant see that other options in this respect were properly presented to
Mr L or objectively weighed up by CC. Mr L had between £66,000 and £70,000 in savings
which he could have used towards a property.
Even if some of these funds were in fixed term accounts, like noted in the suitability report,
the adviser should have explored whether they were accessible -possibly by being charged
a penalty that wouldnt have outweighed the financial benefits of staying in the DB scheme.Even if some funds were tied up and couldnt be accessed at all, I dont think it should have
been a problem to take out a reasonable mortgage for the short-term. Mr and Mrs L had
significant disposable income every month which they also could have put towards this. Mr L
could have paid off any loan again at age 60 with the TFC from the DB scheme. So he didnt
have to go into retirement with more debts if he didnt want to. Even if he topped up his
salary to £20,000, he would have been left with around £75,000 in TFC which he could have
used for this purpose. In return for using some savings and maybe a reasonable loan or
mortgage to finance the property, he could have left his DB scheme untouched and not
risked receiving lower benefits in retirement. None of this was discussed as far as I can see.
It seems Mr L later decided to buy another property. However, I cant see that he had a
strong need to do this. I think its more likely that once he had been advised to transfer and it
was going ahead, he made plans with the money that was available. I dont think based on
the evidence I have that this was likely his objective when considering a transfer.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr L could have achieved his income objectives and the purchase
of a property (whether as a buy-to-let or as a gift for his children) without giving up his
guaranteed and valuable DB benefits. And by transferring his pension it was likely Mr L
would be financially worse off in retirement. So based on the above a transfer in my view
wasnt in Mr Ls best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall
lower benefits.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr L approached a financial adviser as he was concerned about his BSPS pension. Lots of
his colleagues at the time were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his
pension would end up in the PPF. Ive also considered that by the time Mr L was introduced
to CC he had been advised by WW to transfer and he had recently decided to buy a property
and it seems had put a deposit down. So Im satisfied Mr L came to CC wanting to transfer
as he thought this was the right thing to do in his circumstances.
However, it was CCs obligation to give Mr L an objective picture and recommend what was
in his best interest. Mr L, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about BSPS moving to
the PPF. However, as the figures above show, even if this happened, Mr L was still likely to
be better off not transferring. I cant see that this was properly explained to him.
From what Ive seen CC didnt provide Mr L with an objective picture about the PPF and
what this might mean for him specifically. Mr L was interested in retiring early. However, this
was possible in the PPF and early retirement reductions were in fact lower in the PPF than in
BSPS. Overall, I think CC didnt do much to alleviate Mr Ls concerns and fears.
flexibility and death benefits
I havent seen strong evidence that Mr L needed flexibility with his pension. As mentioned
above I think he could have bought a property and secured a guaranteed, increasing income
over the course of his retirement.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Im sure that the idea of leaving a large
sum to his wife in the event of his death sounded attractive.
However, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority herewas to advise Mr L about what was best for his own retirement provisions. A pension is
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think different death benefits
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L.
Mr L had a generous death in service entitlement in case he died before retirement. And the
PPF benefits would have provided Mrs L with a guaranteed income of 50% of Mr Ls pension
(so nearly £8,000 per year increasing with inflation) for the rest of her life on top of her state
pension from age 67. Mrs L also had a share of her mothers property, a mortgage free
home, a property abroad likely to be mortgage free in the not too distant future and the
property Mr L was planning to buy. I dont think that by staying in the DB scheme Mr L left
his wife in a precarious financial situation in case of his death.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice given to Mr L was not suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk free and increasing income. By transferring he was risking obtaining lower
retirement benefits and there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer
and outweigh this. I dont think his options with regards to his DB scheme were properly
explored or explained.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr L likely was keen to transfer out as
he was worried about his pension and WW had confirmed to him he should transfer out. CC
have also pointed to the Time to Choose literature Mr L would have received at the time and
which would have given him information about the benefits he had and what members
should be thinking about when making a decision. Im familiar with the information provided
from trustees to members at the time. However, this doesnt replace personal and
independent financial advice.
It was CCs responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr L. They should have
advised him what was best for his circumstances including that he could meet his objectives
and be better off in retirement by staying in BSPS and moving to the PPF. And that ending
up in the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For the reasons given above I think this
advice should have been to remain in the BSPS.
On balance I think Mr L would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice if they
had recommended him not to transfer out and explained why.
WWs involvement
I understand CC say they only performed a bureau service for WW. CC said WW had
already advised Mr L to transfer and they were still heavily involved in the advice process
throughout.
I cant consider the complaint against WW as they have gone into liquidation. However,
based on the information I have seen it seems that WW indeed had previously advised Mr L
and continued to be involved. However, notwithstanding WWs involvement, CC had a duty
to give Mr L suitable advice. CC is responsible for their own actions here.
would Mr L have transferred in any event?
The investigator came to the conclusion that even with CCs suitable advice Mr L likely
would have proceeded with the transfer anyway. However, having weighed up all the
evidence available I disagree.Of course its impossible to know for certain what Mr L would have done in the hypothetical
situation of CC giving suitable advice. So I have to decide based on the evidence provided
by all parties what I think most likely would have happened on the balance of probabilities.
I dont doubt that Mr L was keen to transfer by the time he was referred to CC. He had been
playing with the idea to transfer for several months and he likely would have been
encouraged by the common opinion amongst his colleagues that moving to the PPF was the
worst possible outcome. And generic terms like flexibility, control and lump sum death
benefits would have sounded attractive. WWs advice to transfer undoubtedly would have
also supported Mr Ls view this was the right thing to do. I also considered that Mr L had
decided to buy a property and possibly had already put down a deposit. So I dont think its
surprising that when WW couldnt process with the transfer, he was anxious to get the
transfer done as soon as possible given the short deadlines given by the scheme trustees to
honour the very attractive transfer values. Mr L didnt want to lose out.
However, on balance, I think if CC had explained to Mr L that he could meet his objectives of
retiring early and taking an income of £20,000 by staying in the PPF and that transferring out
would likely leave him worse off in retirement, on balance he would have listened. Its clear
that Mr L didnt want to take a lot of risk with his pension and I cant see he was particularly
financially experienced. I dont think its likely he would have ignored CCs recommendation
to stay in the DB scheme if they had explained their reasons properly.
Its not clear whether Mr L had already put down a deposit for a property in December 2017
or January 2018. Its my understanding that generally a deposit would only be lost after
pulling out of the sale after contracts of completion. When Mr L was texting about his deposit
being lost, the Memorandum of Sale had only just been issued, so I dont think completion
had happened yet. However, in any event, as explained above, Mr L likely still could have
completed on the property using other means. So if this had been properly explained to him,
I dont think he would have insisted on a transfer.
So overall, Im not persuaded Mr L was at a point where he wouldnt have listened to
properly reasoned advice from a financial adviser and insisted on going against such advice.
I therefore conclude that if CC had given Mr L suitable advice, he would have remained in
the BSPS. And so its fair and reasonable to hold CC responsible for any losses he might
have incurred by transferring.
CC did point out that they only got involved once the Time to Choose period had expired.
So unless Mr L had chosen to move to BSPS2 before the deadline of 22 December 2017,
his only option other than transferring to a personal pension was to stay in BSPS and move
to the PPF. 
Comments from Mr L and CC in response to my decision
CCs comments
CC say I prejudged the complaint as it concerned BSPS. They say I disregarded a number 
of facts, and factual errors were made. I strongly object that I prejudged the complaint and I 
can assure CC I considered this complaint independently and objectively and took into 
account the relevant facts and all evidence provided. Ill respond to their key comments in 
more detail below.
CC says Mr L retired earlier than planned. This suggests that he isnt concerned about his 
income or financial circumstances. Im not sure what point CC is trying to make here. Mr L 
might have felt financially secure enough to retire earlier than he originally planned. As 
mentioned previously Mrs L was earning enough to cover the couples expenses with her salary alone and he had taken a large TFC sum from his new pension. However, I dont think 
this means his retirement benefits werent important to him or that cant be concerned he 
might be worse off in retirement following CCs advice. 
CC says the underlying assumption in my decision is that if the critical yield is above the 
discount rate then the advice is unsuitable. However, CC is mistaken here. First of all, it 
wasnt only the discount rate but also the regulators growth rates that I took into account 
when I considered the financial viability of the transfer. The critical yield here sat between 
the regulators middle and high growth rates, which would suggest that the critical yield 
wasnt likely continuously achievable with a low medium or cautious attitude to risk.  
I appreciate CC thinks a better comparison would be the target rate or achieved rate of 
return of the fund and the funds asset allocation. However, the discount rates and growth 
rates by the regulator provide in my view a more objective benchmark of what can 
realistically be achieved over a certain timeframe and taking into account Mr Ls attitude to 
risk. Mr L also could change the funds he was invested in at any point. I would also like to 
point out that CC themselves said in their suitability report that the critical yield at age 60 
was stretching.
Secondly, I made it very clear that financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
determining the suitability of a transfer and I did consider the reasons why CC recommended 
it. However, I didnt think the recorded objectives justified a transfer and that CC was able to 
demonstrate a transfer was in Mr Ls best interest.
CC says I incorrectly stated that their cash flow models didnt include annual increases on 
Mr Ls BSPS benefits. I note that CCs models include an assumed rate of inflation of 2%. 
What I referred to in my provisional findings is that the income taken from BSPS in the 
current situation shows as £15,812 and it doesnt go up over time. I assumed the inflation 
had only been applied to the savings at year end. However, I appreciate I might be wrong on 
this and essentially annual increases arent shown as they are effectively eaten up by 
inflation in all models. In this case it would have been assumed that Mr L was taking an 
income increasing with inflation from BSPS or withdrawals from his personal pension 
increasing in the same way if he transferred. However, even if I did misunderstand CCs 
model in this regard, I remain satisfied that the cash flow models dont evidence that Mr L 
would likely be better off in retirement by transferring.
I remain satisfied that the discount rates and the regulators standard projections are more 
realistic than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. 
Even when factoring in CCs stress test, I think returns were likely to be lower than the 
models showed. If returns were only in line with inflation the cashflow model showed that Mr 
Ls financial assets would actually be lower in the long-term than if he kept his DB pension. 
And there was a risk this could happen. I also havent seen that the current situation model 
takes into account the spouses pension Mrs L could have received if Mr L predeceased her, 
so the value of these benefits is not factored into the cashflow models as far as I can tell.
CC say I havent undertaken investigations about how much of Mr Ls savings were in fixed-
term accounts and that Im purely speculating about the cost-benefit analysis of redeeming 
such funds early or that taking out a mortgage would have been reasonably obtainable.  CC 
say given Mr and Mrs L were close to retirement it wasnt guaranteed they could get a 
mortgage and that the rate and monthly payments would have been very high given their 
age. They say Im also not considering what Mr L would have done if alternatives were 
discussed, particularly in circumstances when he expressly said he didnt want to use his 
savings or take out a mortgage as he didnt want to take on debt in retirement. There was 
also a risk if Mr L took out a mortgage and didnt find a tenant for his property. CC thinks its 
not realistic to suppose Mr L would have been prepared to do this.Where the evidence available is inconclusive or incomplete, I will reach a decision on the 
balance of probabilities and make reasonable assumptions. If CC had properly considered 
the alternatives available to Mr L at the time of the advice and recorded them as they should 
have, I wouldnt need to do this. CCs fact find shows Mr and Mrs L had a joint annual 
income of £64,000 and around £3,000 of disposable income per month and their main home 
was unencumbered. The couple was in their early and mid-fifties. I dont think its 
unreasonable to assume they would have been able to obtain a mortgage or loan that was 
affordable and which could have been paid off with Mr Ls lump sum from the DB scheme at 
age 60. I took into account the possibility that some savings could have been tied up in a 
way that they couldnt have been accessed at all. However, I think on the balance of 
probabilities a mix of savings and a mortgage or loan could have allowed Mr L to buy the 
property he wanted to buy. CC say Mr L would have not have a financial buffer in this 
scenario and all his savings would be tied up in illiquid assets. However, given Mr and Mrs 
Ls significant disposable income, I think they could have replenished savings quite quickly 
even with additional mortgage repayments.
I appreciate Mr L said he didnt want to use savings or a take out debt in retirement. And I 
dont doubt that this might have been his general preference. However, as previously 
explained, I dont think any alternatives and their advantages were discussed with him in 
order for him to make an informed decision. CC should have explained to him that by using 
his savings and taking out a likely affordable mortgage which could have been paid off with a 
lump sum from the DB scheme and by using savings, he could still buy the property he 
wanted and would likely receive higher benefits in retirement than if he transferred. Im not 
convinced Mr L would have readily accepted lower retirement benefits if it was explained to 
him how he could meet his objectives in a different way without losing valuable guarantees 
and likely be better off in retirement. So on balance Im still satisfied Mr L would likely have 
been open to alternatives if they had been proposed to him.
CC disagree that Mr L wasnt given an objective picture about the PPF. They say he was 
given detailed information what benefits the PPF could provide. Its correct that CC provided 
Mr L with the benefits he could receive from the PPF at age 60. However, what I was 
referring in my provisional decision is that I cant see CC alleviating any of the general 
concerns and fears about ending up in the PPF. In Mr Ls pension transfer questionnaire it 
was recorded I do not trust the scheme and wish to have complete control of my pension. I 
have other assets to rely on. They should have reassured Mr L that the PPF was a secure 
option and remaining in BSPS and moving to the PPF was in his best interest.
CC made various comments about discrepancies in Mr Ls testimony for example about the 
properties he purchased. CC says Mr L obviously hasnt been entirely truthful in his 
complaint about some of his circumstances and is concerned that Im taking his other 
evidence on face value. They think I should ask Mr L to provide more evidence regarding his 
contracts of purchase for the property he bought to show whether he had already paid a 
deposit in late 2017/early 2018 and tax returns to show whether Mr L was owning rental 
property. However, I dont consider any of this necessary to reach a decision on this 
complaint. Ive acknowledged any contradictions in my provisional decision and based my 
findings on the contemporaneous written evidence available. My decision that CCs advice 
was unsuitable is not based on Mr Ls testimony and any further evidence on the lines CC 
suggested would not affect my decision. This is because I already considered that he likely 
put down a deposit, eventually bought two properties and was at least intending at some 
point to rent out a property.
Having considered CCs additional points, I remain satisfied that the advice CC gave to Mr L 
was unsuitable.Mr Ls comments
Mr Ls representatives have confirmed that Mr L did not complete and return the time to 
choose form to the BSPS trustees, so the parties agree that at the time CC gave their 
advice, BSPS2 wasnt an option available to Mr L any longer.
They said with suitable advice he would have started taking his DB benefits at age 60 which 
should be the basis of redress calculations. They also said it would be fair for CC to do a 
PPF comparison now and a second calculation after the buy-out. Ill address their latter point 
in the putting things right section later in this decision.
I considered when Mr L likely would have taken his PPF benefits. Again, I have to work on 
reasonable assumptions based on the information I have. Mr Ls representatives think it 
should be assumed he would have accessed his PPF benefits at age 60 as planned. 
The suitability report does mention that Mr L was considering retiring as he found it more 
difficult to work and that he was going to use savings to cover his expenses for several years 
until he accessed his pension. However, the report said he had been offered a day-shift job 
which he would start shortly and would continue working.
Ive listened to the call Mr L had with CC on 19 March 2018 and that this point he did say he 
wouldnt take any more money from the drawdown plan for at least another 3 to 4 years time 
(which would bring him to age 59-60) after which he would start drawing an income which 
supports that this was still his intention at the time. And I agree for the reasons set out in my 
decision that Mr L didnt need to access his DB benefits at the time he received the advice.
Mr Ls representatives have said Mr L left his employment in 2018 at age 56, so it seems at 
least a few months after the advice was given and the transfer had completed. So I 
considered whether this change of circumstance likely would have made him access his DB 
benefits then. When Mr L was considering retirement previously the suitability report said he 
would use his savings to bridge the time until age 60. However, as described in my decision, 
I think Mr L likely would have used his savings for the property purchase if he hadnt 
transferred his DB pension and he and his wife likely would have increased their outgoings 
due to a possible mortgage or loan. As I acknowledged before, Mrs L did have enough 
earnings to cover their previous joint outgoings even if Mr L wasnt working. However, I think 
on balance I think its more likely than not he would have taken his DB benefits when he 
stopped working to support the increased outgoings and help replenish savings they might 
have used for the property purchase.
Of course its possible that if Mr L had remained in BSPS, he might have decided to continue 
working to be able to defer his pension benefits. However, on balance, given that he already 
was playing with the idea of retiring and actually did, I think he would have done the same if 
he had stayed in BSPS.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr L, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in now but for CCs
unsuitable advice. I consider he would have stayed in BSPS and subsequently moved to the
PPF. It should be assumed he would have taken his PPF benefits when he retired from his 
employment. Mr L should provide CC with evidence from his employer when this happened 
exactly.
CC should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date
of the actual calculation.
CC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss
should if possible be paid into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ls likely
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15%
overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
In addition CC should pay Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date
CC receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of any
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, that it
takes CC to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
PPF buy-out
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to
be complete by late summer 2022.
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period)
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the
buy-out.
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of
benefits as a result of the buy-out.I understand Mr L has now retired early and I have no reason to believe he wouldnt have
done the same if he had gone into the PPF. Due to the lower early retirement reduction
factor which would have applied in the PPF, I think (albeit without certainty in advance of
knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) that entry into the PPF would have produced an
overall better outcome for Mr L. As such, I think its more likely the case that there would be
no deficit in the PPF benefits which could be made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason I require CC to undertake a redress calculation on the current known basis,
rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to
provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
I appreciate that Mr Ls representative would like CC to do a second calculation after the 
buy-out has completed. However, I need to consider what is fair to both parties here. I dont 
think delaying the final outcome to this complaint and requiring CC to do another calculation 
in future -when this would unlikely lead to further redress for Mr L- is reasonable or fair in the 
circumstances.
If Mr L accepts my final decision he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as set 
out above. Its important that Mr L is aware that, once my final decision has been accepted it 
cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require County 
Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require County 
Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd pays Mr L the balance. I additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on County Capital
Wealth Management Ltd. My recommendation is not binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman