DRN-3423509
The complaint
Mr B complains that Station Associates Limited (Station) gave him unsuitable advice to use 
a provider  who Ill refer to as provider A - as his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
provider. Mr B was unhappy with provider As service so he transferred his pension to a new 
SIPP provider  provider B. He said this led to a loss of £8,254.93 plus interest.
This service has already considered and upheld Mr Bs complaint about the way Station 
handled his pension transfer. So my decision here only covers Mr Bs complaint about 
Stations role in the recommendation to use provider A as his SIPP provider.
What happened
Mr B first met with Station in October 2016 to discuss his pension arrangements. Two of his 
three pensions were defined benefit arrangements. Station didnt have the relevant 
permissions to provide defined benefit pension transfer advice. So it referred the transfer to 
another regulated firm (business P) which had the relevant permissions.
Station said it wasnt involved in the research and analysis of the transfer, or responsible for 
requesting further information or processing documents. It said business P had advised Mr B 
on whether a pension transfer was suitable. 
I understand that Mr B originally complained to this service about the way Station handled 
his defined benefit pension transfer. This service found that Station had caused a delay in 
the transfer of one of Mr Bs defined benefit pensions. This led to him missing the guarantee 
date for the cash equivalent transfer value. So we asked Station to increase Mr Bs pension 
by the amount hed lost out on due to the delay.
Station said that it had paid the full amount of redress our Ombudsman had required. And 
that it felt that this was full and final payment for the matter, which it considered closed.
I understand that Mr B separately complained to provider A. While I dont have all the details 
of that complaint, provider A issued its final response on 25 May 2018. And upheld the 
complaint that it hadnt followed Mr Bs instructions to place on hold an investment bond. 
Provider A offered to pay the £12,479.32 it calculated Mr B had lost as a result into his SIPP 
with provider B. It said that Mr Bs investment wouldve been worth £444,643.33 if it had 
followed his instructions. Instead, it was worth £432,164.01.
Mr B said that provider A had admitted that it hadnt followed his instructions. And that it had 
also failed to provide him with the correct information about his pension investments. He said 
that as a result of this misinformation he incurred a loss of £20,734.25 in the value of his 
pension when it was transferred to provider B. This figure is the difference between the 
amount Mr B had initially transferred into provider A - £452,898.26 on 11 January 2018 - and 
the amount he transferred away from provider A into provider B on 29 March 2018 - 
£432,164.01.
Mr B felt that the amount provider A had transferred into his SIPP with provider B on 5 July 
2018 had left him with a shortfall of £8,254.93 plus interest. This amount is derived from 
£20,734.25 less £12,479.32.
Mr B said he held Station wholly responsible for the loss of £8,254.93.  He said that if Station 
hadnt advised him to use provider A as his SIPP provider he wouldnt now be in this 
position. He complained to Station on 10 November 2021.
Station issued its final response to the complaint on 7 December 2021. It didnt uphold it. It 
felt it had already paid the full amount of Mr Bs claim. Station said Mr B hadnt previously 
mentioned his further complaint during the time it had dealt with his original complaint.
Station also said that it had never had the permissions to advise on defined benefit pension 
transfers. It said it passed on such enquiries to a pension specialist, who is responsible for 
all the advice, including the choice of provider A as the SIPP provider. So it said it wasnt 
responsible for the selection of provider A. 
Station also felt that the £8,254.93 Mr B had lost was caused by a drop in investment 
markets. And said that if Mr B had left his SIPP with provider A, he wouldve been better off 
than he was after hed transferred to provider B. 
Mr B didnt agree with Station that the pension specialist it had used for the transfer advice 
was responsible for that advice. He felt that Station was responsible for his financial loss. So 
he brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr B said that during the short period of time that provider A was involved with his pension, 
hed experienced a total lack of professionalism which had led him to decide to transfer his 
SIPP to provider B. He said two of his former colleagues had recommended provider B.
Mr B also said that the Ombudsman who issued the final decision on his previous complaint 
had felt that Station had carried out an unauthorised regulated activity about his defined 
benefits pensions transfers. He said that if Station had told him at their first meeting that it 
wasnt authorised to provide him with advice on that, then he wouldnt have proceeded 
further with Station. He said he wouldve chosen to use provider B instead as it had been 
recommended to him by two former colleagues.
Mr B confirmed to this service that hed received no advice on his transfer from provider A to 
provider B. And that the transfer had completed on 4 April 2018.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider that 
Station was responsible for the choice of provider A. Nor did he feel that Station was 
responsible for the poor service Mr B said hed received from provider A.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that Station had deceived him from the start. 
He felt that the Ombudsman on his previous complaint had already decided that Station 
didn't have the required regulatory permissions to directly advise him on his defined benefit 
transfer. And said that if Station had told him this from the start, he wouldn't have gone 
further with it. Mr B said he wouldve gone with provider B due to his former colleagues 
recommendations. 
Mr B also felt that it was Station, not business P, who had recommended provider A. He said 
hed never dealt with business P.  
Our investigator still didnt consider the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider that 
Station was responsible for the losses Mr B said hed incurred while his pension was 
invested with provider A. He said that if the advice was unsuitable, that would be business Ps responsibility. And if provider A had made an error that reduced the value of Mr Bs 
SIPP, then it would be responsible for any losses. Our investigator also felt that there wasnt 
enough evidence that Mr B wouldve transferred to provider B if Station had explained 
business Ps involvement from the start.   
Station said that if Mr B had stayed with provider A instead of moving to provider B, he 
wouldve been significantly better off.
Mr B said he wasn't aware about business Ps involvement at the time he signed the 
suitability report. He said that Station did everything it could to conceal its involvement in the 
advice process from him. And it didnt tell him it wasnt allowed to advise him directly on his 
defined benefit pension transfers.
Mr B also felt it was unreasonable for our investigator to consider that he wouldnt have 
acted differently if hed been made aware during the first meeting that Station couldnt advise 
him on his defined benefit pension transfers. He said he wouldve transferred to a SIPP with 
provider B. He said this was because itd already been recommended by two former 
colleagues. And hed also already requested and received an information pack from provider 
B. 
Mr B also said that even though it mayve been likely that he wouldve experienced a similar 
fall in his pension funds value if hed gone with provider B from the start, he wouldnt have 
had any reason to move his investments in early 2018.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be very disappointing to 
Mr B. But Im satisfied that Station isnt responsible for the loss Mr B said hed suffered. Ill 
explain why.
As our investigator noted, although this service decided that Stations actions in Mr Bs 
original complaint amounted to carrying out a regulated activity, that doesnt mean that
Station is responsible for the advice to move his pension.
From what Ive seen, business P recommended the transfer of all three of Mr Bs pensions to 
the SIPP with provider A. It explained in its suitability report why it had chosen provider A as 
the SIPP provider.
Mr B said that it was Station, and not business P, that had advised him to use provider A. He 
felt that business P had only rubber stamped the transactions. Because of this, he felt that 
Station was responsible for his remaining loss of £8,254.93 plus interest.
Mr B also said that he hadnt been aware about business Ps involvement at the time he 
signed the suitability report. Hed only become aware at some later point around December 
2017. 
Mr B said that the Ombudsman hadnt found business P guilty of any wrongdoing in his 
previous complaint. And therefore felt it was unfair that our investigator felt business P was 
responsible for the advice to transfer to provider A. He said that the Ombudsman who decided his previous complaint had said that Station had provided him with the advice to use 
provider A. 
From what Ive seen, the Ombudsman who decided Mr Bs previous complaint was satisfied 
that Stations actions amounted to carrying out a regulated activity. This was because she 
felt that although Station didnt consider it was managing the process for Mr B, she could see 
why Mr B felt that it was. 
The Ombudsman said that Station appeared to Mr B to have chosen the SIPP provider. But 
also noted that Station hadnt provided advice on the transfer.  And felt that Station had 
played a vital role in the transfer process, even though it didnt give advice. In the end, she 
felt that Stations actions had caused a delay to his pension transfer which had led to a 
financial loss.
Having carefully reviewed the previous final decision, I dont agree with Mr B that the 
Ombudsman said that Station had provided him with the advice to use provider A. She did 
however hold Station responsible for delays to the transfer, as she considered it couldve 
taken actions which wouldve meant the transfer deadline was met.
While I can understand why Mr B considers that Station must also be responsible for this 
new complaint, I dont agree. 
I say this because Station didnt have the regulatory permissions required to advise on 
transferring from a defined benefit scheme. Business P did have the relevant permissions. 
And it was that business which ultimately made the recommendation to transfer to provider 
A, and how to invest that money.  It was also business P which produced the June 2017 
suitability report on the transfer. As such, business P was responsible for the advice to 
transfer to provider A.
I acknowledge that Station appears to have chosen provider A as the SIPP provider. It also 
seems to have obtained some  possibly all  of the paperwork for the transfer. But business 
P was responsible for that advice. As our investigator noted, the regulator has previously 
said that its important for Pension Transfer Specialists like business P to take
responsibility for that advice, as theyre the business who have the relevant permissions to
do that. 
Mr B told this service that he transferred his pension funds from provider A to provider B, 
without advice, because of the poor service provider A gave him. He complained to provider 
A about that poor service. And his complaint was upheld.
From what Ive seen, provider A has taken responsibility for the poor service it gave Mr B, as 
it should. Even if I was satisfied that Station had advised Mr B to transfer his pensions to 
provider A  which Im not - I couldnt reasonably hold Station responsible for any poor 
service that business then provided. The responsibility for that correctly lies with provider A. 
Mr B also felt he wouldve acted differently if Station had told him as soon as possible that it 
couldnt advise him on his defined benefit pension transfers. He said he wouldve transferred 
to a SIPP with provider B, which had been recommended to him. Mr B said that if hed 
moved to provider B from the start, he wouldnt have had any reason to move his 
investments in early 2018.
Ive thought carefully about what mightve happened if Station had told Mr B during its initial 
meeting with him that it couldnt advise him on his defined benefit pension transfers. In that case, Mr B would still have been required to find a Pension Transfer Specialist who could 
provide the advice he needed. He mightve decided to simply go with the specialist Station 
would use. Or he mightve decided to go elsewhere. In either case, he wouldve still needed 
such advice in order to be able to transfer his defined benefit pensions. And I cant say with 
any certainty that Mr B wouldve been advised to use provider B. 
I also cant say with any certainty that Mr B wouldve avoided problems with his SIPP 
provider if hed been advised to use a different business for his SIPP.
Although we can now look back and determine that a different recommendation mightve led 
to a better outcome for Mr B, business P had no way of knowing how investment markets 
would perform over time. Nor did it know that provider A would make a mistake. It 
recommended that Mr B transferred to provider A for the reasons it set out in its suitability 
report. And Ive seen no evidence that its choice of provider A was flawed.
As Ive seen no evidence that the advice to transfer to provider A was unsuitable, Im 
satisfied that any other Pension Transfer Specialist may have recommended it to Mr B. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr B transferred from provider A to provider B 
because of the poor service he received from provider A. While I acknowledge that Mr B 
holds Station responsible for this poor service, as he feels it advised him to use provider A, I 
dont agree.
This is because Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to hold Station responsible 
for the subsequent actions of provider A, over which it had no control. And also because Im 
satisfied that Station didnt provide the advice to use provider A. 
Instead, Im satisfied that Mr B transferred his SIPP away from provider A because he was 
unhappy with the service hed received. This is supported by the fact that Mr B hadnt 
previously complained about provider A in his earlier complaint.
Therefore, I dont uphold the complaint. And I dont require Station to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman