DRN-3708945
The complaint
Mr O complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Mitsubishi) incorrectly recorded the details of his loan on his credit reference file.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr O bought goods costing £17,164 funded in part by a loan from 
Mitsubishi. The sum borrowed was £15,447 and the interest rate was 11.9%. It was 
repayable over 120 months and the total sum due was £28,647.60. The first payment was 
deferred by12 months. The agreement said that if the loan was repaid before the deferment 
date no interest would be payable, but there would be an administration charge. 
Mitsubishi reported the total sum due on the loan as £28,674.60. Mr O didnt consider this 
was right as he believed the capital sum should be the figure reported on his credit reference 
file. He said recording the larger sum affected his creditworthiness. 
Mitsubishi didnt agree and said it had correctly reported the total sum due. Mr O brought his 
complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend that it be upheld.
Mr O said that the sales representative who acted as the credit broker had not used the term 
loan and had not provided accurate information. Mr O had not regarded the finance as a 
loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O took out a 12 month deferred interest fixed sum loan. It was not a 12 month interest 
free loan and while I sympathise with Mr O I cannot say that Mitsubishi was wrong to report 
the sum due as it did. He took out a loan and this is clearly stated on the agreement which is 
headed Fixed Sum Loan Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The sum 
due under that is £28,674.60 and it is right that this was the sum reported by Mitsubishi. 
I cannot say what was said at the time of the sale and it is possible that the loan may have 
been described in any of a number of ways. However, I believe it reasonable to conclude 
that Mr O was aware that he was borrowing money in some form since he acquired the 
goods without paying for them in full. That means he owed money and so he was indebted. 
That is what Mitsubishi reported. Mitsubishi simply said he owned money to it in the report it 
made to the credit reference agencies
I recognise that Mr O could repay the loan without paying interest, but at the time he took it 
out he owed the full sum. It could not be ascertained if he would pay it off before interest 
became payable and so it was accurate to report the figure including interest. 
I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, but I do not consider I can uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman