DRN-2628114
The complaint
Mr T complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited has paid out a claim on his motor 
insurance policy when he has told them he wasnt involved in the incident.
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The third party held Mr T at fault, it was able to provide details of Mr Ts make, model 
and colour of car and identify that a male was driving. The third party mentioned it 
had a witness (albeit they were a passenger in the car) and had put its outlay of costs 
to Advantage for reimbursement. 
Mr T says he wasnt involved in the reported incident but did have an accident a 
week or so later. Mr T told Advantage about this accident and in doing so said he had 
dash cam footage from the time and pictures of his vehicle. Which, he said would 
also show there was no other damage to his car. 
On the call with Advantage where Mr T discussed the alleged incident and notified 
them of the accident he was involved in, he was asked to send in the dash cam 
footage, photos and any other information that could be relevant. It would then be 
placed on file for use later if needed. It was also explained to Mr T that Advantage 
wouldnt take any further action on the alleged claim until an outlay payment request 
was received from the third party.  Mr T did not send in this information and later said 
the dash cam footage had been over written. 
Mr T provided an email from a colleague saying he was at work at the time of the 
alleged incident and a bank statement which showed purchases from a supermarket 
on the same day. Advantage said it couldnt use those to defend Mr Ts involvement 
as the email was from a private address, not his employer and the purchases werent 
time stamped so didnt prove he was somewhere else at the time. 
Mr Ts policy contains a clause which allows Advantage to take over and deal with a 
claim in the way it sees fit, this is common in motor insurance policies. 
Given the lack of information available to it which definitively proved Mr Ts location 
at the time, and the details the third party had provided, Advantage decided to accept 
the claim against Mr T. Having reviewed all of the evidence available to me, I think 
Advantage acted reasonably in reaching its decision, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything else here. 
Advantage has recognised it could have handled Mr Ts claim better, there were 
delays and a lack of communication. It offered Mr T £150 compensation.  Having 
considered everything, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman