DRN-3924782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Vs complaint is about their mortgage account with Santander UK Plc. Mr V, who 
has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that in March 2021 they were misled into 
switching the mortgage onto a two-year interest-only fixed-rate product after being told he 
could, after that, make an application to transfer the mortgage onto a capital repayment 
basis and extend the mortgage term. That application was later rejected.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs V want Santander to honour a five-year fixed interest rate 
product which Mr and Mrs V decided not to go ahead with in March 2021.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs V being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs V have an interest-only mortgage with Santander. In 2021 their five-year 
fixed-rate product was coming to an end. In March 2021 there were a number of phone calls 
with Santander about which new product to take. 
When Mr V discussed the mortgage on 12 March 2021, it was clarified by Santander that an 
application for a switch to capital repayment would require a full application, and would be 
treated as a new mortgage with a full assessment of income and expenditure. It was 
explained that this could take some time and so a new application was unlikely to be 
processed by the time the current fixed rate came to an end. As a result, if the mortgage was 
to revert to Santanders Standard Variable Rate (SVR), the mortgage repayments would 
increase substantially if a new fixed rate wasnt put in place.
Mr V told Santander he was discussing options with a financial adviser and so didnt want to 
be locked into a five-year fixed rate with an early repayment charge (ERC). The adviser said 
Mr V was free to do this, but also said that a fixed rate Santander could offer would reduce 
the monthly repayments from about £1,300 to £770 per month. Santander said that if Mr V 
could find a lower rate through his own financial adviser, then that was fine, but if he decided 
not to go elsewhere, then Santander could offer a new rate which would save money.
Mr V asked if he could be given an indication of whether a 25-year term on a repayment 
basis would succeed. The adviser said that it looked fine but that he couldnt give any 
guarantee because it was subject to a full application. But it was also explained to Mr V that 
an application for a switch to capital repayment and a term extension would be dealt with 
separately from an interest rate product switch. Mr V said he would think about his options. 
During the call on 15 March 2021 when Mr V agreed to a new product, he was initially 
looking at a five-year fixed rate. But after comparing the costs of both two-year and five-year 
fixed rates, Mr V agreed to take out the two-year fixed rate product. 
After being asked about the repayment strategy, Mr V said that the intention was to pay lump 
sums off over the term of the mortgage over the next 10-15 years and, if there was still an 
outstanding balance at the end of the term, they would sell the property. But he also said 
that hed been talking to someone else at Santander about changing the term. He didnt 
mention at any point switching the mortgage to a capital repayment basis, but said his 
priority was to secure the interest rate. 
Santander clarified that changing the mortgage term would be subject to underwriting and 
would be a full application. If the term extension wasnt agreed, by taking out the new fixed 
rate, Mr and Mrs V would be tied into the product. Santander checked that Mr V was certain 
he and Mrs V wanted to take out the new product, and Mr V confirmed they were. As a 
result, at the end of the call Mr V (on behalf of himself and Mrs V) took out a two-year fixed 
rate product on an interest-only basis which is due to end on 2 June 2023. 
After the two-year fixed rate product was in place Mr and Mrs V applied to convert the 
mortgage to capital repayment and extend the mortgage term. However, Santander had 
concerns about affordability, and Mr and Mrs V decided not to go ahead with the application. 
Mr and Mrs V complained. Mr V says that Santander explained that hed been made aware 
that moving to a repayment mortgage and extending the term would require a new contract. 
He said that his intention was to lock in an affordable interest rate for the longer term, but on 
the understanding that this was just a means to an end to access a repayment mortgage. He 
expected to be able to call up the mortgage adviser, complete the term extension and switch 
to a repayment mortgage. However, Mr V says that when he spoke again to Santander he 
was told that he would need to go through a new mortgage application in order to do this.
Santander clarified several times during that call that Mr V had no plans to change anything 
about the mortgage other than a potential term extension, which he understood was subject 
to a new application.
Mr V says he was misled by Santander and mis-sold the two-year fixed rate product. He said 
that if the application for the term extension and conversion to repayment had been done 
first  and been rejected  he would then have had the option to lock into a fixed rate on 
interest-only for a much longer term of at least five years so hed be able to make 
overpayments up to the limit allowed each year. 
Mr V said that hed been pressurised into taking out the two-year fixed-rate and told that he 
had to do this before applying for a term extension or switch to a repayment mortgage.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint so Mr V brought the complaint to us. An investigator 
looked at what had happened but didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. He was 
satisfied that Santander hadnt imposed any conditions on Mr and Mrs V applying for the 
fixed rate or suggested that they had to do this before applying for any changes to the 
mortgage contract.
Mr V didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes reiterated his 
points that he was told that he had to put the new fixed rate in place before being able to go 
ahead and switch the mortgage to a capital repayment basis.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive listened to all the calls provided by Santander, including the call made on 
12 March 2021 which Mr V believes is the crucial call that misled him into agreeing to take 
out the two-year fixed rate.
Having listened to all the calls, Im satisfied that it was made clear to Mr V that there was no 
guarantee an application to make changes to the mortgage term or repayment method 
would be successful. Santanders staff were clear that a fresh application would need to be 
made, which would be subject to meeting Santanders lending criteria. Mr V was also made 
aware that, by taking out the fixed rate, he would be tied into the contract and would be 
subject to an ERC if he decided to move the mortgage elsewhere.
The adviser Mr V spoke to on 12 March 2021 correctly, in my opinion, explained that a new 
mortgage application could take time, and that if the current fixed rate product expired, the 
mortgage repayments would substantially increase once the mortgage reverted to SVR. He 
also made it clear that there was no guarantee an application to change the mortgage 
contract to repayment and extend the term would succeed. 
In addition, at no point during the call on 15 March 2021 when Mr V booked the two-year 
fixed rate did he mention changing the mortgage to capital repayment. He only talked about 
changing the mortgage term, and spoke about their strategy to repay an interest-only 
mortgage.
Overall the evidence doesnt persuade me that Mr V was misled, pressurised or coerced into 
taking out a new two-year fixed-rate product. Im satisfied that he was aware that there was 
no guarantee an application for a new mortgage on a repayment basis over an extended 
term would be successful. 
I appreciate Mr V now regrets taking out the two-year fixed rate product. It will expire in a few 
months time and interest rates are higher, so I can understand why, in hindsight, he 
believes he and Mrs V would have been better off taking the five-year fixed rate product on 
an interest-only basis and making overpayments. 
However, in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Santander mis-sold the two-year 
fixed-rate product or that Mr V was misled about this, or about the need for a fresh 
application to make a change to the mortgage contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman