DRN-2610400
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wrongly advised them 
when they took out a further loan to expand their property development business. The buy to 
let property on which the mortgage is secured is now in negative equity. In the likely event of 
a sale Mr and Mrs W say that Halifax shouldnt require them to pay the shortfall.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have an interest-only mortgage with Halifax secured on a flat which is a buy 
to let property. The original mortgage was taken out in 2014 for £60,000. At that time Halifax 
got a valuation which assessed the value of the flat as £150,000. In 2017 Mr and Mrs W 
applied for and got a further loan of £60,000 again on an interest-only basis making the total 
lending about £120,000. The term of the mortgage is to end in 2021. Halifax got an assumed 
or desktop valuation which appears in the mortgage offer as £175,628. Mr and Mrs W say in 
fact that they were told the valuation was £155,000.
Mr and Mrs W had their property valued at the end of 2019 at £105,000 and so, if they sell it, 
they will have a shortfall. They feel that as Halifax has been negligent, it should be 
responsible for the shortfall. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as Halifax hadnt advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the mortgage and that this is a 
buy to let and not a residential property. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was a commercial transaction whereby in 2017 Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow 
£60,000 from Halifax to expand their property business. According to Halifaxs records they 
had a second property that they owned outright and were using this money to upgrade it. 
Halifax was happy to facilitate it as further borrowing secured on an existing buy to let 
mortgage. From an assumed valuation that Halifax conducted, it felt that there was enough 
equity in the property to secure the loan. But that appears to be incorrect. So, now if the 
property is sold there may be a shortfall of about £15,000 and Mr and Mrs W want Halifax to 
write that off because they say that Halifax gave them poor advice.
In effect Mr and Mrs W are asking Halifax to write-off £15,000 of the money they borrowed, 
and I have to look at whether that is fair. Mr and Mrs W make the point that they were relying 
on the advice of Halifax. It doesnt seem to me that they were relying on Halifaxs advice 
about borrowing the money. That was for an investment in another buy to let property and 
Halifax provided no advice on that. 
Halifax also didnt provide mortgage advice. It makes that clear in the mortgage offer which 
states that We are not recommending a particular mortgage for you. However, based on 
your answers to some questions, we are giving you information about this mortgage so that 
you can make your own choice.
So, its clear that there was no question of Halifax offering Mr and Mrs W advice on this 
transaction. There is a dispute about the valuation figure used by Halifax. This was an 
assumed or desktop valuation, not that of an independent valuer, and to be used for the 
benefit of Halifax in deciding whether to lend money based on the value of a security. It 
wasnt intended to advise Mr and Mrs W on how much the asset was worth. Halifax in the 
mortgage offer say that the value of the property was assumed to be £175,628. I note that 
Mr W in his correspondence says that he was present when a Halifax employee did a 
valuation which came up with an assumed valuation of £155,000. Mr and Mrs W say that in 
view of the independent valuation of the property in 2019 as £105,000, the valuation in 2017 
must have been inaccurate.
But, even if it was inaccurate, clearly Halifax wasnt advising Mr and Mrs Ws property 
company on the value of its asset but informing itself as to whether it could lend on the 
security of the property. Mr and Mrs W suggest that the use of an inaccurate property 
valuation allowed Halifax to engineer lending business. But Mr and Mrs W approached 
Halifax to borrow money. There is no evidence that Halifax cold called them or otherwise 
sought them out to sell the loan to them. Mr and Mrs W only had two buy to let properties 
and presumably would had an idea of the value of these before going to Halifax to request 
this loan. 
Mr and Mrs W werent going to Halifax for a valuation. They were going for a loan. They 
would have been aware that Halifax was basing its lending decision on a desktop valuation 
for lending purposes and this wasnt an independent valuation. So, given the above, 
although the valuation in 2017 may have been inaccurate, Im not persuaded that when Mr 
and Mrs W borrowed money in 2017 that they were relying on Halifaxs desktop valuation 
before deciding to do so. Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow money for another property after 
all and not the one which was being mortgaged. In addition, I also consider that as this was 
a desktop valuation for lending purposes that Mr and Mrs W couldnt reasonable expect the 
level of accuracy of valuation that would be provided by an independent valuer.  
It now appears that the property in 2019 is worth less than the assumed valuation in 2017 
and if Mr and Mrs W sell the property, they will have a shortfall. But they borrowed £120,000 
from Halifax for their business and I dont see why that shouldnt be repaid.  Im unsure why 
the valuation in 2017 differs so much from that of 2019 and there may be a concern for 
Halifax in the use of the assumed valuation. But Im tasked with deciding what is a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint not with supervising Halifaxs internal processes. 
Halifax loaned money to Mr and Mrs W which they wanted for their business. The choice to 
take out a mortgage was a matter for Mr and Mrs W. In those circumstances I cant see why 
the money shouldnt be repaid and so I dont uphold this complaint. Unfortunately, Halifax is 
unable to facilitate a formal extension of the mortgage term although it seems to have 
considered that. If the property is sold and there is a shortfall, I would expect Halifax to be 
sympathetic to any reasonable proposals Mr and Mrs W make to pay off that shortfall. 
I note that in response to documentation sent to Mr and Mrs W that they may have a 
complaint arising from a valuation done on behalf of Halifax in 2014 which they say they 
didnt receive at the time. That is a separate issue than this one and I have not dealt with it 
here. I will leave it to Mr and Mrs W if they wish to make a complaint about that to contact 
Halifax.     
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman