DRN-3066064
The complaint
X and Mrs S are unhappy with the way that Society of Lloyds (SoL) has dealt with a legal 
expenses insurance claim in relation to a boundary dispute with a neighbour.
References to SoL include activities undertaken by its appointed agents.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. Instead Ill summarise whats happened and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
It was agreed initially that the claim would be covered by the policy. But the solicitors 
appointed by SoL advised that the cost of pursuing the matter further would 
significantly outweigh the value of the claim. It also said that the potential nuisance 
wasnt sufficiently bad enough to interfere with the insureds use of land and that the 
claim was unlikely to be covered by SoL. SoL made an offer of £5,453 in full and final 
settlement of the claim which was said to be the cost to repair the damage, inclusive 
of VAT. But it says this was declined by X and Mrs S. 
The settlement offer was withdrawn. SoL said this was because the policy doesnt 
cover a breach of covenant claim unless that breach is causing a nuisance and/or 
trespass that meets the policy cover requirements. By this it means that the issue 
must have arisen during the period of insurance, prospects of success remained at 
least 51% and legal costs would be reasonable and proportionate. Based on advice 
from the solicitor, it didnt deem the costs to be reasonable and proportionate. 
But SoL agreed, due to the long running history of the case, that it would continue to 
support X and Mrs S in trying to find a practical solution to the matter. It suggested 
that they write to the neighbour to say that theyd be instructing an agent to carry out 
proposed works and may need to gain access to the neighbouring land. But that if 
the neighbour were to object, they should let them know within 14 days. X and Mrs S 
noted this would require them to trespass on the neighbours land or, to avoid this, 
lose some of their own land.
The solicitors, with SoLs agreement, closed their file in September 2020 as they felt 
the matter was no longer progressing. 
X and Mrs S also complained about delays in the case. SoL admitted thered been 
several avoidable delays in reviewing and responding to items of correspondence. It 
awarded compensation of £75, followed by £150 at a later date. But it didnt feel the 
delays had prejudiced the claim. X and Mrs S didnt accept the £150. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt think SoL had acted unfairly in 
declining the claim and felt that the compensation was a fair reflection of what went 
wrong. X and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
My role in this case is to determine whether SoL has acted fairly in how it has 
interpreted and used the advice provided by the solicitors. SoL which is an insurer, 
not a legal expert, is entitled to rely on the advice of suitably qualified legal experts, 
provided that it isnt obviously wrong when read by a layman and doesnt contain 
obvious errors. 
The property section of the insurance policy states it provides cover for A dispute 
relating to visible property which the insured owns following.... a public or private 
nuisance or trespass provided that where any boundary is in dispute, you have proof 
of where the boundary lies.
With the above in mind, the solicitors said Please note that there is no cover under 
the policy for breach of covenant issues. While I am aware that you have referred the 
issues relating to the dilapidated fence to [SoL] under the nuisance/trespass section 
of your policy, the cost to remedy the dilapidated fence would be far outweighed by 
the cost of legal action through the Court, which action would, I think, be for injunctive 
relief As I say, there is no cover under the policy for breach of covenant issues. 
So, given that the legal advice states that the issue isnt covered under the policy  
as it isnt an insured event  I dont think SoL has acted unfairly in withdrawing 
funding. 
I also feel it would be worthwhile touching on some of the relevant terms and 
conditions within the policy as it appears that there was some misunderstanding 
around the cover that X and Mrs S had. It appears they thought they could pursue 
the matter until costs reached £75,000 regardless of whether it was deemed to be in 
proportion to the issue. The policy wording states (my emphasis): Following an 
Insured event the insurer will pay the insureds legal costs & expenses up to £75,000 
(including the cost of appeals) for all claims related by time or originating cause, 
subject to all of the following requirements being met with the insured 
[keeping] to the terms of this policy being one of those requirements. 
The policy conditions (i.e. part of the terms of the policy) say that the insured has a 
responsibility to keep legal costs and expenses as low as possible, with these being 
defined as Reasonable legal costs and disbursements reasonably and 
proportionately incurred by the appointed advisor on the standard basis and agreed 
in advance by us. So this means that cover would only be provided up to £75,000 
if costs were deemed to be proportionate. It was for this reason that SoL initially 
offered a much lower amount to rectify the issue; this was the amount deemed to be 
proportionate in the circumstances.
Ive thought about the delays and the compensation issued. I can appreciate the 
frustration that the delays wouldve caused, but Ive not seen anything to suggest this 
caused any financial loss or that these prejudiced X and Mrs Ss claim. So Im 
satisfied that the total of £225 is a fair reflection of what went wrong here. I note 
some of this wasnt accepted so I think its fair that SoL now pays the remaining 
amount.For the reasons given above, I dont think SoL has acted unfairly in withdrawing funding for 
this claim. While it has said it would try to support with finding a practical solution, this is a 
gesture of goodwill and not something I could fairly ask it to do for the reasons given above. 
So I wont be making any suggestion around whether or how this should continue and what 
the parameters of this would be  I leave that to SoL to decide.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman