DRN-4167196
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In December 2021 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around six years old and had 
covered around 58,000 miles.
Mr G says that he experienced issues with the car within the first few weeks of getting it. He 
says there were warning lights illuminated on the dashboard relating to the tyres and the 
engine. The car later went into limp mode.
Mr G says that hes had repairs carried out to the diesel particulate filter (DPF) and that hes 
replaced all four tyres. He says hes had the EGR cleaned twice but that there are still issues 
with the car. Mr G says that the car didnt pass its MOT because of the faults, and hes now 
stopped making payments under the finance agreement.
Mr G first raised a complaint with Moneybarn in late 2022. He complained about the oil 
consumption and issues with the DPF. In its final response dated 11 October 2022, 
Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said there wasnt any evidence to show that the 
fault was present at the point of supply and that the issue was due to wear and tear.
Mr G raised a further complaint with Moneybarn in February 2023. He complained that the 
car was in limp mode and hadnt passed its MOT. Moneybarn asked Mr G to provide 
evidence to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. Mr G didnt send 
Moneybarn any evidence and it issued a final response on 3 April 2023 in which it said it 
didnt uphold the complaint and that the issues were due to wear and tear.
Mr G was unhappy with Moneybarns response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt any evidence to show 
that the fault with the car was present or developing at the point of supply and that she didnt 
have enough evidence to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed spent over £1800 trying to fix the issues with the car and he 
didnt accept that they were due to wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account things such as the age and 
mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the goods 
includes their general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr G was around six years old and had covered around 58,000 miles. Its 
reasonable to expect that the car already had a degree of wear and tear, and that it would 
require more repairs than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply, as 
opposed to a fault which developed due to general wear and tear.
Ive reviewed the available information about the issues which Mr G has experienced with 
the car. Based on what Ive seen, I think its likely that there is a fault with the car. Mr G has 
told this service that the car is displaying an error code, that it has gone into limp mode and 
that because of these issues it hasnt passed its MOT.
Just because theres a fault with the car doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. Ive looked at the available evidence to determine whether the 
car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G in December 2021.
The faults about which Mr G has complained occurred more than six months after the point 
of supply. The relevant legislation says that in these circumstances, its up to Mr G to prove 
that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. I can see that when it issued 
its first final response to Mr G in October 2022, Moneybarn asked Mr G to provide evidence 
to show that the faults were present at the point of supply. 
Mr G hasnt provided any evidence to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Theres no independent inspection report or other engineering evidence that I can look at to 
help to determine whats wrong with the car and whether it was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
In the circumstances, there isnt enough evidence for me to be able to say that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So I cant hold Moneybarn liable for the 
current issues with the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman