DRN-1556106
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Theres only limited information about Mr Bs mortgage and this PPI after such a long time. 
None of the paperwork from the original sale is available. 
Mr B recalls having a discussion with Aviva about the need for PPI. 
Aviva has explained that Mr B must have got in touch in response to an advert in the press 
or, if hed already been a customer at the time, he mightve been sent a direct mailing. Aviva 
says there would've been an initial phone call when Mr B first made contact and afterwards, 
a quotation and application form wouldve been sent to Mr B in the post. Then Mr B would've 
been able to read through the paperwork and complete the form at home  selecting the 
cover he wanted to have. 
Aviva said the policy was a stand-alone product designed to protect mortgage repayments in 
the event that Mr B was unable to work due to unemployment. 
Aviva also told us that it didnt arrange Mr Bs mortgage and his mortgage was nothing to do 
with Aviva. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel there was enough evidence to uphold this complaint. Mr B 
disagrees with our adjudicators view. Mr B mainly told us that he was unhappy as he says 
he and his wife were told categorically by Aviva that if they didnt take out PPI they wouldnt 
get a mortgage  so theyd felt under pressure to take out a policy they didn't want or need. 
And hes unhappy that although theres a lack of information our adjudicator appears to have 
accepted Avivas word for what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I dont know exactly what was said when Mr B spoke to Aviva about applying for PPI. 
Theres no call recording and no record of what was said during the initial phone call. But 
this isnt surprising given that this PPI was taken out so long ago - I wouldnt expect a 
business to keep records indefinitely and the lack of any recording or paperwork isnt a 
reason for me to uphold this complaint. I must be impartial. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is 
most likely. 
I dont doubt that Mr B is certain about what hes told us he remembers about taking out the 
PPI. And Ive taken into account that Mr B said he felt pressured into thinking he had to have 
the policy. But I dont think the evidence is strong enough overall for me to be able to say 
that was the case. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr B to recall in detail what was 
discussed at the time as this was so long ago. So what Mr B says about the way the PPI 
was sold isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I think its likely 
that Mr B contacted Aviva in the first place because he was interested in taking out PPI. And 
he wouldve had time to reflect on what was discussed during the phone call with Aviva and 
find out more information or seek advice elsewhere if hed wanted to if hed had any 
concerns before filling out the application form in his own time at home. Thinking about what 
appears to be the most likely scenario, I cant fairly say that overall, the available information 
shows that Aviva pressured Mr B into taking out PPI.  
I dont know how Aviva wouldve presented PPI to Mr B or explained it to him during any 
discussions. But Aviva says that Mr B wouldve had to fill in a separate application to take 
out the PPI. I think thats probably right  its clear this wasnt a policy that was sold 
alongside his mortgage because Mr B didnt arrange his mortgage with Aviva. So I think its 
likely that at the time he wouldve understood that having PPI wasn't necessarily part of his 
mortgage deal which hed arranged elsewhere  PPI was something extra that it was up to 
him to arrange if he wanted to have it.
And I think its likely that Mr B decided he wanted the PPI because Aviva says that when his 
application was accepted it wouldve sent Mr B details of the cover hed chosen  and in 
Mr Bs case, he only took out unemployment cover. It says this letter would also have 
included information about the right to cancel the policy if Mr B didn't want it. 
As far as I know Mr B didnt query anything when, as I think is likely, he got such a letter.
I dont have any details of his borrowing. But I expect his mortgage was an important 
financial commitment at the time. His home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr B mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
I can completely understand why Mr B mightve forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think 
its likely that Mr B decided that he wanted to have the benefits and security that the PPI 
offered him in the event he became unemployed, and he chose to buy the policy, knowing it 
was optional. 
Aviva said it didnt make any personal recommendation about the PPI  and as Mr B filled in 
the application at home, I think thats likely to be correct. But Aviva still had to give Mr B 
important policy information in a clear way so he could make a proper decision about 
whether the policy was right for him. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels he was strongly recommended to take out the PPI. But even if 
Aviva had personally recommended the policy to Mr B it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. So this wouldnt affect the 
outcome of this complaint.
Looking at the policy document that Aviva has provided, based on what I know of his 
circumstances at the time Mr B was eligible for the policy. 
The policy paid a monthly benefit for at least 12 months per claim in the event Mr B lost his 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change. I think that having a monthly 
benefit that protected his mortgage repayments for a year couldve been useful at whats 
likely to have been a difficult time.
Repeat claims were possible after a qualifying period back at work, providing Mr B with long 
term protection.
So its fair to say that the PPI provided Mr B with worthwhile protection in his particular 
situation.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if this affected Mr B as he was in 
full time employment and in good health. So, I dont think more information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations wouldve made any difference to Mr Bs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mr B when he bought the policy. But 
Mr B couldve queried this if he was concerned this wasnt something he wanted to pay for - 
from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened. Mr B hasnt suggested that he 
couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And I think its likely he wouldve signed an instruction 
form to his bank to cover the cost as his mortgage monthly repayments were set up 
separately. So it seems he was happy at the time to pay for PPI. 
Given the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured on his home, I think Mr B 
probably wouldve appreciated the peace of mind this cover gave him (even if hes forgotten 
now). And as he was paying for the PPI monthly, he could cancel it anytime without further 
cost if he wished.
Its possible that Aviva mightnt have given Mr B clear information about all aspects of the 
PPI. But I think Mr B chose to take out the insurance and I can see why he mightve thought 
it could be useful. Taking all his circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the 
way Aviva sold him PPI, on balance I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr B off 
having it. So I dont find hes lost out as a result of anything that Aviva mightve done wrong. 
And theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman