DRN-3988910
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined a claim made under his 
motor insurance policy. He is also concerned with the time taken to progress his claim.
References to Accredited Insurance include its representatives.
What happened
Mr H has explained that his car was stolen from outside his mothers house, on 28 March 
2022. On finding out that his car was stolen Mr H said he contacted the police and reported 
the theft. And then contacted his motor insurer, Accredited Insurance, to make a claim for his 
loss. 
Accredited Insurance appointed a loss adjuster, whom Ill call L, to assist it with validating 
the claim. As L was acting on Accredited Insurances behalf, it accepts responsibility for its 
actions too. 
L interviewed Mr H on 4 April 2022 about the loss. And then on 5 April 2022 asked Mr H for 
some information, including an image of Mr Hs car key. After this, Mr H said he heard a 
nothing more about his claim, until 20 June 2022, when he was written to by L. L asked a 
number of questions  including an explanation of why Mr Hs documents provided different 
addresses to the address his policy was under. And it asked Mr H to send it his car key. 
Mr H sent the car key to off to L, as requested.
Following this, Mr H raised a complaint with Accredited Insurance, about the time it was 
taking to deal with his claim. Accredited Insurance provided a response to Mr Hs complaint 
 and said that delays in progressing the claim had been as a result of Mr H not providing 
information that had been requested of him. Accredited Insurance said once it had the 
requested information, it could move the claim forward.
Mr H didnt agree with this. He said he had provided information he had been asked to give  
including providing his car key when he was asked for it. 
On 25 August 2022, Accredited Insurance came to a decision on Mr Hs claim. It declined it. 
Accredited Insurance said that the key Mr H had provided for his stolen car was the wrong 
one. It said that the specification of Mr Hs car meant that a standard remote flip key, which 
was cut and coded, would have been the right key for the car. But that Mr H had instead 
provided a proximity fob, which was the incorrect model type to work with the vehicle. 
Accredited Insurance said that because the incorrect key had been given, the claim was 
declined. 
Mr H didnt agree this was fair. He said that the key he had provided to be assessed was the 
one he was given when he purchased the car, and he had been using it with the car ever 
since. 
Mr Hs complaint about both the progress of his claim, and the decline of it, were referred to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator said it was reasonable for Accredited Insurance to rely on the report it had 
gained about the key  and it not being the right one for the car. And that when Accredited 
Insurance didnt receive sufficient answers as to why the key provided wasnt the right one, it 
was entitled to decline the claim.
The investigator acknowledged that there was around a delay on two-month delay in the 
progression of the claim  because Mr H was being written to at the wrong address, despite 
him having updated his address details. But they didnt consider Accredited Insurance 
needed to take any further action in relation to this  because they considered the delay had 
minimal impact, and the claims decision would have remained the same.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators outcome. 
Mr H also raised with this service that he had been trying to get his car key back from 
Accredited Insurance and its appointed representatives. But hadnt been successful. Mr H 
said he wanted the key back to take it for diagnostic tests, to show the key was the one he 
had been using in his car. 
Mr H also said the delays with his claim had impacted him, with the situation causing his 
mental health to suffer. Mr H has also noted that because he didnt have his car, he wasnt 
able to get to work, and therefore lost a job.
Because Mr H didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding Mr Hs complaint in part, and requiring 
Accredited Insurance to pay Mr H £100 compensation. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Accredited Insurance acted in line with these requirements when 
it handled and declined to settle Mr Hs claim. 
I think that Accredited Insurance could have dealt with Mr Hs claim more efficiently in some 
places. But I dont think its decline of Mr Hs claim in August 2022 was unreasonable. Ive 
explained my thoughts regarding both elements below. Decline of claim 
Mr Hs policy requires Mr H to give Accredited Insurance all the information and assistance it 
requires when dealing with a claim. But Accredited Insurance isnt satisfied that Mr H has 
done this, because it says it hasnt been given the correct key for the stolen car.
Accredited Insurance has also declined the claim at this stage, on the basis that the key was 
the wrong one. So, Ive thought about whether Accredited Insurance has acted fairly here. 
And I think it has.
Accredited Insurance asked Mr H for his key, for it to assess this. Mr H did send this when 
he received a letter on 20 June 2022 asking him for this. But the expert who completed the 
key report raised queried about the key provided.
On looking at the report the expert said the key provided for the car was an incorrect model. 
It said the fob supplied by Mr H was a proximity fob. But the vehicle specification states the 
key would be a standard remote flip key. They said that the stolen vehicle has a key blade 
ignition system, meaning a cut and coded flick key was needed to allow ignition to activate, 
and the vehicle to start. It said the fob provided is the incorrect model type to work with the 
vehicle. And therefore, the original key/s were missing.
As the report was detailed, and persuasive in noting the key was the wrong one, I dont think 
Accredited Insurance acted unfairly in declining the claim at this stage. It acted based on the 
evidence it had  and without the correct key  couldnt progress the claim. So, Im satisfied 
Accredited Insurance didnt act unfairly by taking the decision to decline the claim, on the 
basis of the information from the expert report.
Mr H has said that the report from the expert wasnt impartial, because it was commissioned 
by Accredited Insurance. But it isnt unusual for an insurer to appoint a firm with the relevant 
expertise to review things such as this. The report provided by the report is reasonably 
detailed and is persuasive. And I havent seen that Accredited Insurance had any reason to 
doubt the contents of the report when provided with it. 
Mr H has said that he would like to take the car key for diagnostic tests himself, to evidence 
that the key was the one used in the stolen car. When considering this complaint, Ive only 
considered what happened up until the point Accredited Insurance declined Mr Hs claim, to 
decide whether it made a reasonable decision there. Im not able to consider things that 
havent happened as yet. So, this doesnt change the outcome of this complaint. 
But its my understanding that Mr H has now been sent his car key back. So, it is Mr Hs 
decision as to whether he would like to get a diagnostic report or not. Mr H would need to 
provide any new information to Accredited Insurance to consider, to see whether it changed 
the outcome of his claim. 
Accredited Insurance has also raised other queries with Mr H, in relation to his address at 
the time of the loss. And in its final response letter, dated 25 July 2022, Accredited Insurance 
said Mr H hadnt provided the information it required. I can see Accredited Insurance did 
email Mr H on 19 July 2022 and asked how he was living at the policy address some 2.5 
weeks after the land registry shows the property had been sold. And it asked where Mr H 
was staying, and why the insurer had not been informed of that before, if Mr H wasnt staying 
at the address originally on the policy. 
On other occasions it asked Mr H why his driving licence detailed a different address to the 
original one on the policy. And why the V5 document for the car noted a third, different, 
address still.Based on the information Ive been provided with; I cant see that Mr H has fully answered 
these queries, and Im satisfied it was reasonable for Accredited Insurance to seek further 
clarification. So, I dont find Accredited Insurance has acted unfairly in this respect either.
Handling of claim  
Mr H has said that Accredited Insurance has handled the progress of his claim poorly. Hes 
noted that matter has been delayed  with him needing to chase up the progress of his claim 
too. So, Ive looked at this. And I do agree there was some avoidable delays in the claims 
progression.
When Mr H first registered the claim, it was dealt with promptly. But there was around a two-
month delay in the claim moving forward, due to L writing to Mr H at the wrong address. Mr 
H had updated his address details in early April 2022. And it wasnt until June 2022 that Mr 
H was written to at the correct address, with requests for him to provide information  
including the vehicle key. 
I can see that Mr H did call Accredited Insurance in May 2022, to ask for an update on his 
claim. But he wasnt told that it was waiting for information from him, or what this was. 
Instead, it simply told Mr H that its underwriters were considering the matter. I think if Mr H 
had been written to at the correct address, and then been provided with sufficient 
clarification in May 2022, his claim would have moved forward more promptly.
After Mr H sent the key in, as requested in June 2022, the claim then proceeded promptly, 
with Mr Hs claim being declined in August 2022, after a key report and further interview.
But given the above delays, I think its likely Mr H could have been given the outcome of his 
claim two months earlier, if the avoidable delays hadnt happened. So, Ive thought about 
whether there is anything Accredited Insurance need to do, to put things right.
I do think it should provide Mr H with compensation for the delay. And I think £100 is a fair 
and reasonable figure for this. I say this because I think it fairly recognises that there were 
two additional months where Mr H didnt know what was happening with the claim, and 
whether it was going to be accepted or not. And he has explained this was distressing for 
him. 
Mr H has also noted that he lost work as a result of not having a car. But, as I dont think 
Accredited Insurance did the wrong thing in declining Mr Hs claim, I dont require Accredited 
Insurance to do anything more in respect of this. Mr H not having a car (which was only 
covered for social, domestic and pleasure purposes) was as a result of it being stolen, not 
Accredited Insurances actions.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to require Accredited Insurance to pay £100 compensation. 
But I dont require it to do anything more.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.My final decision
Given the above, my provisional decision is that I intend on requiring Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd should pay Mr R £100 compensation. I dont require Accredited Insurance to do 
anything more than that, in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman