DRN-2259639
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Allianz Plc refused to pay her claim for the death of her dog as it 
said it wasnt a benefit under her policy. Miss S is adamant she bought a policy with this 
cover.
What happened
Miss S bought her policy for her dog in 2015. She said she chose this policy because it had 
a death benefit. Sadly, her dog died suddenly after a short illness and when she made a 
claim to Allianz, it said she hadnt opted in for this cover, so it wasnt provided in her policy.
Miss S was adamant that she did have this cover as she said she discussed it over the 
phone with a representative of Allianz when she was buying her policy in 2015. Allianz said it 
no longer has the phone recording as it only keeps these for two years. It said however that 
its policy terms are clear that she hadnt opted in for this cover and so it wasnt provided.
Miss S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
Allianz has done anything wrong. Miss S disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill know explain why.
Its clear that Miss S bought the Classic cover plan from Allianz as that is whats stated she 
bought on each of the Certificates of Insurance provided by Allianz. That doesnt have the 
death cover benefit unless the policyholder opts in for this cover. Only the Ultimate Cover 
plan has it automatically. And the policy says what is covered is shown on the Certificate of 
Insurance each year. No death cover was on Miss S Certificates of Insurance each year 
since 2015.
Allianz said initially it posted Miss S her 2015 and 2016 policy documents. On 6 June 2017 it 
said it automatically opted Miss S in for eDocs following an email it sent to her advising it 
was switching to eDocs. It said as it didnt receive any opt-out from Miss S within the 
stipulated 25 days it continued thereafter to provide her policy documents via eDocs. 
So its clear Allianz had a system of posting out the policy documents at the time Miss S took 
out her policy. Therefore, its likely Miss S received her policy documents by post. And I 
assume in the phone call she had with Allianz setting up the policy she would have been told 
her policy documents would be sent out to her and that she should check them over to see if 
they still suited her needs. If for whatever reason Miss S didnt receive her policy documents 
after she bought the policy, then I would have expected her to have contacted Allianz asking 
for them.
Ive seen Allianz evidence that Miss S did open the eDocs once the documents were 
provided in this way. So, Im satisfied from at least 2017 that Miss S received her policy 
documents and opened them.
 
I consider the policy conditions to be clear as it says the following in the terms and 
conditions that were in use when Miss S first took out her policy:
The benefits listed below are also significant, but please be aware that these 
benefits may not be included in the cover for your pet. The benefit is only included 
in the cover for your pet if it is shown as covered on your Certificate of 
Insurance Animal Details.
We will cover the price you paid for your pet (or the market value if you have no 
formal proof of how much you paid or if you did not pay for your pet):
Theft or Straying If your pet is stolen or goes missing in the UK and cannot
be found. 
Death from Injury If your pet dies in the UK due to an injury.
Death from Illness If your pet dies in the UK due to an illness.
The maximum amount you can claim is shown on your Certificate of Insurance 
Animal Details.
Miss S Certificates of Insurance have never made any mention of this level of cover.
In the current terms and conditions document, which Allianz has shown us that Miss S 
opened, it says the following:
When you can add or remove the Death from Injury and Death from Illness 
sections
 If your pet is covered on the Classic plan  these sections are optional and if they 
are included in your cover, you can remove them at any time. If you dont have 
these sections of cover, you can apply for them to be added at the renewal of your 
policy if your pet is under a certain age (for cats under 10yrs old, for dogs under 8yrs 
old and for select breeds under 5yrs old). We will then let you know if these
can be added once we have reviewed your pets veterinary history. The Death from 
Injury and Death from Illness sections come as a package and you can only add or 
remove them both at the same time.
 If your pet is covered on the Ultimate plan  the sections are automatically included 
in your insurance and therefore cannot be removed from your cover.
I consider the initial terms and conditions and these later documents both make it very clear 
that there is no automatic cover for death unless the policyholder bought the Ultimate Cover. 
Miss S didnt, as she bought the Classic cover and it clearly states this on each Certificate of 
Insurance. Shes also mentioned in her correspondence with Allianz that she chose an 
Allianz because she works in the veterinarian profession and had dealing with Allianz and 
this product to include some training. And that Allianz offered her a discount due to her job.  
It is unfortunate that the sales call recording is no longer available. However, Allianz has 
done nothing wrong in not keeping it this long. The reason for that is that given Miss S has 
this policy from 2015 so its reasonable that any issues Miss S would have had about the 
sale of her policy would have arisen before now given it is a policy thats renewed each year 
with a new Certificate of Insurance being issued each year. This means Miss S had several 
opportunities to check that the level of cover she had brought suited her needs and indeed 
covered the benefits she wanted it to cover. 
Despite Miss S association with Allianz through her employment and profession, all these 
policies are sold on an unadvised basis. What this means is that Allianz only duties are to provide clear details about its cover, levels of cover and exclusions, which I consider it did. 
Thereafter its up to the policyholder to make sure the cover meets their needs. 
Ive no reason to doubt Miss S that she and the sales adviser discussed the policy fully to 
include the death benefit. However, when Miss S received her initial Certificate of Insurance 
and policy documents, it was up to her then to ensure it covered what she had discussed. 
And if it hadnt or if she needed clarification on the policy terms, then I would have expected 
her to have raised this with Allianz then.
So, as its clear Miss S only bought the Classic Cover policy and its clear she never opted 
into the death cover option, I dont consider Allianz did anything wrong in refusing to pay her 
claim for the sad death of her dog. And for the avoidance of any doubt I consider Miss S got 
her policy documents and indeed opened them on the eDoc system used by Allianz. Further 
I consider the policy wording was clear that Classic Cover had an optional death benefit 
which Miss S never opted to have on her policy. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman