DRN-4284587
The complaint
Mr W complains about Clydesdale Bank Plcs, trading as Virgin Money, communications 
which led to direct debits being refused and an unfair credit marker.
What happened
On 9 and 16 January 2023, Virgin refused two of Mr Ws direct debit payments as there were 
insufficient funds in his account to pay them. Virgin charged two tariffs of £4.00, and they say 
that they advised Mr W that these would debit his account on 27 February 2023. 
However, Mr W says he didnt receive any notification and, due to a lack of funds in his 
account, this resulted in his account being overdrawn and Virgin reporting this to Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mr W complained to Virgin and, whilst they were satisfied that they hadnt made an error, 
they refunded the tariffs as a goodwill gesture.
Mr W is dissatisfied with Virgin and the impact on his credit rating. He feels they shouldve 
done more to contact him including sending him an email.
Our investigators view was that Virgin had fairly applied the charges and the CRA marker.
As Mr W remains dissatisfied, this case has been referred to me to look at.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first explain that I cant tell a business to make alterations to their systems, 
procedures or processes. This because we arent the regulator of the financial services 
industry.
Our role is to consider each individual case and, where we think a business hasnt acted 
fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, to decide what should be done to put right 
any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
I first considered what caused Virgin to refuse the direct debits and this was due to Mr W 
having insufficient funds in his account. It is clear the presentation of the direct debits was a 
mistake and, although Mr W says this was caused by another bank, it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Virgin responsible for refusing the transactions and implementing their tariff procedure. 
However, the dispute here is about Virgins communication after the two direct debits were 
refused. As Virgin had Mr Ws telephone number and email address, Mr W believes that they 
didnt treat him fairly. He thinks that, in addition to their letters and APP message which he 
didnt receive or access, they shouldve contacted him by additional methods. This is 
because they regularly use his email and he didnt receive and therefore wasnt able to act 
upon the communications that they made and, had they done so, the situation including the 
negative CRA couldve been avoided.
So, I looked closely at the file to see how Virgin communicated with Mr W. Virgin records 
show they sent Mr W the following 3 letters to his recorded address several weeks before 
the tariff was charged, and his account became overdrawn on 27 February 2023:
1. 9 January 2023, Virgin informed Mr W that an £85 payment was refused due to a 
lack of funds in your account or Arranged Overdraft 
2. 16 January 2023, Virgin informed Mr W that an £85 payment was refused due to a 
lack of funds in your account or Arranged Overdraft 
3. 2 February 2023, Virgin confirmed that two £4 fees would be debited from Mr Ws 
account on 27 February 2023
In addition, as Mr W was set up with a Virgin banking APP facility, which had functionality 
that enabled him to set up and receive notifications, he was sent notifications on 9 and 16 
January 2023. As these were instantaneous, they advised him that the direct debits were 
being taken and allowed him until 3pm to credit his account and avoid tariffs.  
I appreciate Mr W says he didnt receive any of Virgins letters, however Im satisfied the 
above letters were dispatched to the correct address and I cant hold Virgin responsible if 
mail gets lost or misplaced. 
As mentioned by our investigator, commercial decisions to use the postal service and APP 
arent something our service can comment on unless they are unfair to a customer, and I 
also consider this was a reasonable way for Virgin to correspond with Mr W. Although Mr W 
has demonstrated he receives emails from Virgin, Im satisfied these are predominantly for 
marketing purposes and non-confidential information.
In addition, management of account funds and direct debit changes are a customers 
responsibility, so having correctly sent letters I dont think it is reasonable to expect Virgin to 
either monitor or chase customers where preventative action doesnt occur.  
With regards to Virgins APP messages, which couldve stopped the refusals if they were 
received, its clear Mr W wasnt expecting the direct debit transactions or using the APP at 
the time. So, even if the APP had been set up to receive the notifications Virgin applied, Mr 
W wouldnt have received them. 
However, this is a facility Virgin provide and Mr W has access to, and, although I appreciate 
the APP functions are optional, Virgin gave Mr W the opportunity to set himself up to receive 
notification via SMS text alerts. So, as customers can set themselves up for SMS when 
theyre not using the APP or anticipating activity, I think it was reasonable of Virgin to use 
this method as a secondary and more immediate communication method. 
So, having considered all the above, Im satisfied that Virgin arent responsible for the failed 
direct debit, and their communications which wouldve avoided the charge and CRA marker 
were fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman