DRN-4452590
The complaint
Mr P, a sole trader, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC withdrew an agreed Pay As You 
Grow (PAYG) payment deferral option from their Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
In May 2020, Mr P successfully applied to Barclays for a BBL, and he received the loan 
funds shortly thereafter. The terms of the BBL included that Mr P was required to make 
monthly payments towards the loan from June 2021 onwards. But Mr P didnt make the June 
2021 payment as he was contractually required to, and so the loan fell into arrears.
Shortly afterwards, in July 2021, Mr P successfully applied to Barclays for a six-month 
capital and interest repayment holiday, whereby he wouldnt be required to make further 
payments to the loan until January 2022. However, Mr P didnt clear the June 2021 payment 
that hed missed, and so the BBL remained in a position of arrears.
In December 2021, with the capital and interest PAYG plan coming to an end, Mr P applied 
for a further PAYG plan, whereby he would only be liable to pay the monthly interest that 
accrued on the BBL for six months, from January 2022 until June 2022. Barclays accepted 
the further PAYG plan, but Mr P didnt make all the interest payments as required of him by 
the plan, and so the BBL fell further into arrears.
In July 2022, with the second PAYG plan having come to an end, so that Mr P was again 
required to make full monthly payments to the loan, Mr P applied for an extension of the 
interest-only PAYG plan for a further six months  until December 2022.
Barclays initially accepted Mr Ps application, but upon review they decided to withdraw this 
third PAYG plan from Mr Ps BBL. Mr P wasnt happy about this, especially as Barclays 
didnt formally notify him that they had removed the PAYG plan from his BBL and because 
they now expected him to resume making full payments towards the loan and considered his 
BBL to be approximately £2,000 in arrears. Furthermore, because Mr P couldnt make the 
full BBL payments in the following months, Barclays issued a formal demand for full 
repayment of the BBL and subsequently defaulted the account. So, Mr P raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr P and explained they didnt feel theyd done anything wrong by 
administering his BBL as they had, including withdrawing the third PAYG plan in July 2022. 
But Barclays did accept that they hadnt informed Mr P about the removal of the PAYG plan 
as quickly as they should have done. Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not convinced that Mr P was eligible to apply for the BBL under 
consideration here. I say this because Mr P also successfully applied to Barclays for two 
other BBLs on a limited company basis, with one of those limited companies being a 
subsidiary of the other, and with one of those limited companies being of an identical name 
to Mr Ps sole trader trading name.
However, rather than conducting an investigation into the trading income of Mr Ps two 
limited companies and his sole trader business in the period preceding the BBL applications 
in 2020  which I would need to do in order to confirm whether Mr P was or wasnt eligible to 
apply for this BBL on a sole trader basis  Ive decided to proceed with my assessment here 
as if Mr P as a sole trader was an eligible applicant.
Ive taken this decision because, having considered all the information available to me here, 
I dont feel that Barclays did act unfairly by withdrawing the third PAYG plan from Mr Ps sole 
trader BBL as they did. And so, regardless of whether Mr P was or wasnt eligible to receive 
the sole trader BBL, I wont be upholding the merits of this complaint.
When Mr P accepted the BBL agreement and received the loan funds, he agreed to the 
terms of that agreement. And these terms included that Mr P was contractually required to 
make payments towards the BBL and would be considered to have defaulted on the loan 
agreement if he did not.
In this instance, Mr P didnt make the first BBL payment that he was contractually required to 
make in June 2021. This meant that Mr Ps sole trader BBL was in a position of arrears from 
the onset of his payment obligations. And because Mr P didnt act to clear the missed 
payment that took place in June 2021, his BBL remained in arrears from that point until it 
was eventually defaulted by Barclays in January 2023.
Additionally, while Mr P did benefit from an interest only PAYG plan on his BBL, he didnt 
make all the interest payments that were contractually required of him by that plan, meaning 
that his loan fell further into arrears.
It therefore seems reasonable to me that Barclays would, upon review, be unwilling to allow 
Mr P to benefit from an extension of that interest only PAYG plan  because Mr P had 
already demonstrated that he was unwilling or unable to meet the terms of that plan because 
he had failed to make all the interest only payments that were contractually required of him 
by the earlier interest only PAYG plan.
Im aware that Mr P is unhappy because hes awaiting the conclusion of a legal challenge 
which he feels would allow him to clear the BBL arrears and remaining balance in full. But 
the BBL is a formal agreement which includes contractual payment obligations on Mr P. And 
I dont feel its reasonable to expect Barclays to suspend the terms of the loan for an 
indefinite period pending the result of a legal challenge which may or may not conclude 
either soon or in Mr Ps favour. And Im satisfied that the terms of the BBL which Mr P 
accepted, including the payment obligations, should fairly the form the basis of Barclays 
expectations towards Mr P.
This isnt to say that Barclays acted entirely without error here. But the mistake that Barclays 
made was accepting Mr Ps application to extend the interest only PAYG plan in the first 
instance  which they reasonably should have declined for the reasons already explained in 
this letter. Barclays accepted this point in their response to Mr Ps complaint. And they noted 
that they had accepted this point in relation to Mr Ps other complaints  about the two other 
BBLs which he took for his two limited companies. Barclays also noted that they had offered to pay £150 to Mr P in one of their other responses and felt that because of the eligibility 
concerns surrounding the number of BBLs that Mr P had applied for, that this one offer of 
£150 was fairly put forwards by them in regard to all three of Mr Ps complaints.
Barclays position here seems reasonable to me. And while Mr P may argue that Barclays 
accepted his three separate BBL applications, it must be remembered that the BBL scheme 
was self-attested. This means that it was the applicants responsibility to have understood 
the eligibility criteria of the scheme before applying for a BBL. And this also means that Mr P 
attested during his applications that he met the eligibility criteria of the BBL scheme such 
that he was eligible to apply. And because of this Im satisfied that any inconvenience or 
trouble Mr P has incurred surrounding his potential ineligibility to have received three BBLs 
are consequences that Mr P should be considered as accountable and responsible for.
All of which means that I dont feel Barclays have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays 
to take any further or alternative action. 
In short, this is because if Mr P was eligible to receive the sole trader BBL under 
consideration here, he didnt meet the repayment obligations as he was contractually 
required to as per the BBL agreement. And because of this I dont feel that Barclays acted 
unfairly by withdrawing the PAYG extension they reasonably shouldnt have agreed in the 
first instance, or by then following the account arrears process that they did  including, 
ultimately, the defaulting of Mr Ps sole trader BBL.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting. But I hope that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman