DRN-2348441
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays has unfairly recorded a default notice against her on her 
credit file and shed now like it removed.
What happened
Miss A took out a career development loan with Barclays in 2014. In 2017 the loan went into 
arrears and Miss A contacted Barclays. A repayment plan was agreed.
In January 2019 Miss A found that default notice had been recorded against her. She says it 
had a serious impact on her finances and her ability to get a mortgage.
Miss A complains that Barclays didnt tell her that this could happen when they were 
discussing the repayment plan. If shed known she wouldnt have agreed to it. And although 
Barclays says it sent her various letters and notices about her loan and the arrears she 
hasnt received anything. Miss A believes this is due to Barclays holding an incomplete 
address for her.  As Barclays provided the mortgage on her property she feels it should have 
known her full address and that its responsible for any problems with the post.
 In the circumstances Miss A considers the default notice has been unfairly recorded and 
shed now like it removed.
 
Barclays didnt agree. It said Miss A had been told about the default notice when shed 
called on 31 May 2017. It had also sent her all the necessary letters and notices prior to 
issuing the default notice and said these had been sent to the address it held on her 
account. On that basis it considered the default notice had been properly issued and 
recorded. And because of that, the information on Miss As credit file was factually correct 
and it couldnt agree to amend it.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. Shed seen that Barclays had provided the 
necessary information before the default notice was issued so she couldnt agree it hadnt 
been applied unfairly. Although she noted what Miss A had said about the post, there was 
nothing to show Barclays had made a mistake with the address. For that reason, she 
couldnt ask it to remove the default notice or amend Miss As credit file.
Miss A disagreed and said although shed received some post during this time from the bank 
it was about other matters and not the loan or the proposed default notice. She felt Barclays 
should have known her full address as it had been clear from the various letters and 
documents in connection with her mortgage. She didnt agree shed been told about the 
default notice, which she said, was having a serious impact on her finances and her ability to 
get another mortgage. In the circumstances, she felt it was unfair of Barclays to have 
recorded this against her and asked for it to be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Miss A feels strongly about this case and the position she now finds 
herself in. However in order for me to direct Barclays to remove the default notice, Id need 
to be satisfied that it wasnt applied incorrectly and, having reviewed the information I cant 
agree that the case, as Ill now explain.
At the heart of this complaint is the question of whether Miss A was given the correct 
information and notice about the default notice thats been recorded against her. Barclays 
says she was and points to the various letters and notices about this that were sent to Miss 
A in 2017 as well as the telephone call of 31 May 2017.  Miss A says she hasnt received 
any correspondence about his and doesnt recollect being told about it in the call.
Its clear theres a difference of opinion between Miss A and Barclays. I should explain that 
where theres no information on any particular point, or the information available is 
incomplete or disputed, then Ive considered whats more likely than not to have happened 
taking into account the wider circumstances of the case and made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
Barclays has said it used the address on its system for its correspondence with Miss A. This 
seems to be missing the second line of the address but it does show the correct first line, 
including the flat number, and the postcode. This should be enough to allow it to be 
delivered and thats supported to a degree by the fact Ms As confirmed that she did 
received some correspondence from Barclays during this time.  
Ive seen Miss A feels Barclays should have known the full address because it provided the 
mortgage on the property. I cant agree. Theres no guarantee that information from one 
product will be automatically transferred to another and its for the customer to make sure 
that their details are correct. In this case Miss A seems to have been reassured by the fact 
she was receiving some post in 2017 and 2018 so she didnt query the address with 
Barclays at the time and, for that reason, Barclays didnt know there might be a problem. Its 
not clear why Miss A received some post but not others but in the circumstances I cant 
agree Barclays is responsible for this.
Ive also listened to the call of 31 May 2017 in which Miss A discussed her finances. In this 
call Barclays explained that it could agree a reduced payment but that a default notice would 
be issued automatically because the agreed payments werent being met. I know Miss A 
doesnt remember this but this is also supported by the notes made at the time- and 
confirmed in a letter of the 1 June 2017 - so I cant agree Miss A wasnt told about this 
before the default was applied.
Miss As explained very clearly why shes so upset about the default notice and the impact 
its having on her ability to obtain a mortgage elsewhere. I have every sympathy for the 
situation Miss A finds herself in but, for the reasons set out above, I dont find that Barclays 
has made a mistake in recording this default on Ms As credit file. For that reason, and 
because Barclays has a responsibility to ensure that Miss As credit file is accurate and 
complete, I cant now ask Barclays to remove details of this default.
I realise this isnt the decision Miss A was hoping for but in the circumstances, I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman