DRN-3633014
The complaint
Mr J complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says the loan was lent at a time when his mental health was deteriorating. To put 
things right, Mr J would like Madison to write off the outstanding balance on the loan and 
remove adverse information about the loan from his credit file.
What happened
Madison investigated Mr Js complaint and agreed it shouldnt have lent him the loan. To put 
things right, it agreed to remove the loan from Mr Js credit file and remove interest, fees and 
charges applied to the loan so that Mr J only repays the capital amount of £2,000.
Unhappy with the response, Mr J brought his complaint to this service where it was looked at 
by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator thought Madison had done enough and so he 
didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. The adjudicator said he hadnt seen evidence that Madison 
was aware or should have been aware of Mr Js mental health at the time it lent. Mr J has 
been given time to provide this information but hasnt done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As stated above Madison had agreed it shouldnt have lent to Mr J and taken some steps to 
put things right. The issue at dispute here is whether these steps taken by Madison are fair 
in the circumstances.
Ive thought about what Madison has done. When this service upholds complaints about 
irresponsible lending such as this one, the usual way we recommend redress is that a 
consumer in a similar situation should only repay the principal borrowed and all interest, fees 
and charges should be removed from the loan  this is what Madison has done. Also, wed 
tell the business to remove adverse information from the consumers credit file but from the 
information provided, Madison has gone a step further and removed the entire loan from 
Mr Js credit file and not just the adverse information.
Mr J has argued that other lenders have written off his debt when he presented them with his 
circumstances. I dont doubt Mr J has had a tough time with his health, specifically his 
mental health and theres evidence presented to show this is the case. And while other 
lenders may have taken certain steps, that doesnt mean Madison will also be expected to 
take the same steps. I have to look at the case based on the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Im sympathetic towards Mr J and the challenges he has. Looking at all the information, it 
doesnt appear Madison knew Mr J was on course for a deteriorating mental state at the time 
it lent and theres nothing to suggest it should have reasonably been aware of this at the 
time. As I said before, I dont doubt what Mr J has said but I need to weigh it up against what 
Madison knew or ought to have known at the time it lent.
Ive also thought about Mr Js current position and his continued health challenges. The loan 
statement shows Mr J has been repaying £100 monthly towards to loan and so it looks like 
Madison have agreed a repayment plan for the loan capital. Mr J has maintained those 
payments and so, it seems Mr J is able to make payments towards the debt.
Madison is expected to treat its consumers in financial difficulty positively and should 
continue to do so. Also, due Mr J being vulnerable, Id expect Madison to continue to work 
with Mr J in repaying the loan through a suitable repayment plan.
Overall, I think Madison has treated Mr J fairly and while I appreciate Mr J wants the loan 
balance written off, I wont be asking Madison to do anymore as I dont think its lending 
decision was reckless at the time and it is fair that Mr J repays the principal borrowed. Also, I 
think Madison has treated Mr J positively by agreeing a repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman