DRN-4465865
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint concerns Contracts for Difference (CFD) trading accounts opened with 
StoneX Financial Ltd, and a predecessor business. Hes represented by a claims 
management company (CMC), which has said, in brief, that he was pressured into opening 
the accounts, didnt understand them, his knowledge and experience werent properly 
assessed, nor was he informed of the risks of CFD trading. He seeks a return of the amount 
lost though the accounts  around £5,000  plus interest.
What happened
Mr K opened the first account in 2010 and further accounts in 2015. In response to Mr Ks 
complaint, StoneX explained that, given the passage of time, information about the accounts 
was limited. But it appeared that the 2010 account came about after Mr K approached 
another business, since acquired by StoneX, via its website. This led to him being contacted 
by the business and the account opened after a full explanation of the service had been 
provided and his suitability for CFD trading assessed. The service at this point had been 
advisory, with suggested trades being primarily based on FTSE 100 companies, with stop 
loss orders utilised to manage them and full information regarding the rationale and risk 
provided.  
In respect of 2015, StoneX said that Mr K again interacted with a website that prompted 
contact and the subsequent opening of another account, after detailed personal and financial 
information has been obtained and his suitability to receive investment advice had again 
been assessed. Mr K then went on to open one further, execution-only, account directly with 
StoneX (trading as City Index).
StoneX didnt consider that there was any basis on which the complaint should be upheld. 
Along with confirming that it was satisfied the accounts had been opened correctly, it pointed 
to the terms that Mr K wouldve been required to agree to, which included clear references to 
risk and volatility. StoneX also noted that the specific risks associated with CFD trading had 
been set out in the welcome pack Mr K wouldve received, which included the terms and 
conditions. StoneX was satisfied Mr K had been made sufficiently aware of the risks involved 
and had been prepared to accept those risks.  
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as StoneX. She was satisfied his suitability for the accounts had been 
reasonably assessed and warnings of the risks involved given. 
Mr Ks CMC didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matter was referred to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities and 
in light of the wider circumstances, whats most likely to have happened. 
Further, Ive not provided a detailed response to each and every point raised. Ours is an 
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken account of all the submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think 
is relevant and at the crux of the complaint.
As has been noted, the opening of the accounts and Mr Ks subsequent trading go back 
some years, so the information available is limited. But although much of what StoneX has 
said in its rejection of the complaint has been a generic explanation of what its usual 
procedure would, or at least should, have been at the time, it has also supplied records that 
confirm that reasonably detailed information about Mr Ks circumstances and investment 
knowledge and experience was obtained.
In 2015 it was recorded that he was a company director with assets of over £1million, a net 
worth of £760,000 and an annual disposable income of over £30,000. These details were 
linked back to his 2010 account and it was noted in his file that Having assessed the 
personal and financial information provided for the client on the Suitability Assessment 
Questionnaire provided for him, the client has been assessed as having sufficient capacity 
for loss to bear any related investment risks, a Medium High risk profile & a good level of 
experience & knowledge to be able to fully understand the risks involved in trading CFDs.  
These notes appear consistent with the detail of Mr K circumstances.
Contrary to this Mr K has said, via his CMC, that he felt coerced and pressurised into 
entering trades solely for their (StoneXs) commission. I also felt pressured by continuous 
cold calling and to say the desired answers required to start the process. 
While I note these recollections, they are somewhat at odds with Mr K returning to StoneX in 
2015. Hes said he was pressured, and that may explain why he opened the further accounts 
in 2015. But StoneX has explained that the approaches to him were prompted by his 
interaction with websites, which also suggests a continued interest in CFD trading.   
Further, Im satisfied that during the course of the repeated account opening processes Mr K 
wouldve been made aware of the risks involved in CFD trading. They were dealt with 
comprehensively in its terms, certainly those for the latter 2015 accounts, with a prominent 
general risk warning given at the start.   
Overall, given the passage of time and limited information available, I find Im unable to 
conclude, on balance, that StoneX acted incorrectly or unreasonably in providing the trading 
accounts to Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman