DRN-2217896
The complaint
Mrs C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her two payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies. 
What happened
Mrs C bought the first policy in November 2000 at the same time as taking out a loan. Then 
in July 2001, Mrs C refinanced her loan into a new loan and also took out a new PPI policy. 
Nationwide says these loans and the PPI policies were both taken out over the phone. 
The first policy taken out in November 2000 had a one-off upfront premium of £110.52 was 
paid in advance by being added to the loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest 
over the term of the loan. The loan was repayable over a 12-month term and the policy term 
matched that of the loan. The monthly loan repayment was £135.77 with the PPI costing an 
additional £9.21. making the total monthly repayment £144.98.
The second policy taken out in July 2001 had a one-off upfront premium of £328.80 was paid 
in advance by being added to the loan where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. 
The loan was repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan. 
The monthly loan repayment was £137.59 with the PPI costing an additional £13.70. making 
the total monthly repayment £151.29.
The policies provided cover for Mrs C for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Cs monthly loan repayment 
for the remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time of taking out both these policies, Mrs C was employed as a retail sales assistant. 
She has told us she was entitled to six months full sick pay from her employer and had 12 
months redundancy pay. Mrs C also says she had savings at the time. Mrs C has said she 
was in good health in November 2000 and July 2001. 
Nationwide has sent us Mrs Cs transaction records to show that the first loan account was 
closed when it was refinanced into the second loan, and that the second loan account closed 
in July 2003. 
Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Cs representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mrs C wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Cs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policies were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide 
should have told Mrs C about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint
These sales took place in 2000 and 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like 
these became regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles 
for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The first credit agreement ended in July 2001 and the second in July 2003. That means the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
These sales were made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Cs case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questionsTaking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policies were appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
- Whether Nationwide gave Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs C suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs C and 
Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs C know she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
Nationwide says these policies were taken out over the phone. Mrs C says she thought the 
policies were taken out via a leaflet. Our adjudicator considered the evidence and felt it was 
more likely that these policies were sold over the phone. Neither party responded to dispute 
this nor did they provide any evidence to contradict this finding  so Ive also considered 
these as telephone sales. 
Nationwide has provided us with a copy of a call script it says wouldve been used when Mrs 
C was sold the PPI policies  and in the absence of any call recordings, this is the best 
evidence available. This script shows that the sales representative was instructed to give the 
customer brief details about the policy and included both yes and no boxes for the 
representative to tick based on Mrs Cs decision. While I dont know what exactly was 
discussed, this evidence suggests that the PPI policies wouldve been presented as optional.
Following this, Mrs C wouldve received her loan agreements which both listed the PPI 
premiums separately from the loans, under the heading Optional Credit Insurance. From 
this I think it was clear the PPI was an optional product and had Mrs C not been given the 
choice over the phone I think she wouldve contacted Nationwide to question this at the time.  
  
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs C knew these policies were 
optional and she agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide advice?
Nationwide says it didnt provide advice during either of these sales. Mrs C hasnt said 
whether she remembers receiving any advice or not. Looking at what happened when 
Nationwide sold Mrs C the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I say these 
because I havent seen any evidence that Nationwide considered Mrs Cs personal situation 
at the times it sold her the policies or made any tailored recommendations.This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI policies were suitable for Mrs C. 
Instead, it had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs C to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs C was given a broad description of what the 
policies intended to cover (that is that the policies would protect her payments if Mrs C was 
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs C would have taken out the policies without any 
sense of what they were. 
Ive seen copies of both the loan agreements. These clearly set out that the single premiums 
were being added to the loans, interest was added to the premiums, and the total cost and 
the monthly cost of the policies. And even though Mrs C received this after agreeing to the 
PPI, she saw these documents before either of the policies commenced, so she had the 
opportunity to remove them if the costs were much higher than expected.  
However, I havent seen evidence that Nationwide gave Mrs C enough information about 
some of the other details of the policies  for example, information about their exclusions or 
limitations. So, I dont think Nationwide gave Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points with regards to the requirements on a business when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Cs. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premiums went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mrs C about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs C has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either. What effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mrs C? To what extent did Mrs C 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies to Mrs 
C. So, Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mrs C 
would have still taken out the policies, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mrs C says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs C had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policies against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs C chose to take these policies out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what Mrs C 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Mrs C has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs C knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Nationwide told her all the information about the cost of the 
policies at the point Mrs C first agreed to take them out. Having said that, the subsequent 
loan agreements show that Mrs C was told the cost before each of the policies started, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds
with her expectations at the point of sale, its possible she might have raised that with 
Nationwide at the time or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs C would have found the costs unacceptable if she had been 
given all of the cost information during the calls in which she agreed to the policies.
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mrs C would get back in return in the 
event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Cs expectations about what 
the policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan 
payments) were significantly different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions or diseases which Mrs C 
knew about or ought reasonably to have known about before the start date. Or any 
medical condition or disease for which Mrs C received treatment or advice or was 
referred for an investigation during the 12 months before the start date and which 
reoccurs within the first 12 months of the policies; 
The policies limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mrs C 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policies werent as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs C from taking out 
the policies. 
But, the evidence about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs C 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without first providing some 
evidence to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs C needed to be totally unable to do any work. I dont think 
this is likely to be too different to what she would have expected to make a claim. So, it 
seems unlikely she would have thought shed been able to make a successful claim if she 
was still working. 
The policies did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policies provided 
flexibility if Mrs C decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policies. And Ive seen 
evidence that Mrs C did receive a pro-rata refund when she cancelled the first policy to 
refinance her loan and take out the second policy. 
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs C would still have taken out the policies. The policies were sufficiently close to 
what its likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help her 
manage the consequences were Mrs C made redundant, or unable to work through accident 
or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs C would have 
taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Cs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs C would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mrs C 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. Mrs C believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because, while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policies 
she was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should pay Mrs C compensation, as that would put her in a better position than 
she would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs C thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policies in how 
it described the PPI.  Whilst I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contracts, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide gave Mrs C, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 2000 and 2001  when providing information about an insurance 
policies. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Cs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs C and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs C in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman