DRN-3855891
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice provided by The On-Line Partnership 
Limited (OLP) to invest regular contributions in a new self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). Specifically, he thinks that OLP failed to accurately determine his risk profile which 
led to him exposing the value of his SIPP to a higher level of investment risk than he realised 
or was willing to accept had he known the true level of risk.
What happened
Scope of this final decision
Mr C and his wife submitted to this service four separate complaints about OLP regarding 
the suitability of the advice it provided to invest in a range of investment and pension 
products including the SIPP at the centre of this complaint. The scope of this final decision is 
limited only to considering the suitability of the advice OLP provided to Mr C in connection 
with the SIPP. The other complaints have previously been decided by this service and so will 
not be considered again under this final decision.
This complaint
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr C and OLP. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In August 2019, one of OLPs advisers met Mr C and his wife. A fact find document and 
attitude to risk questionnaire were completed which recorded, amongst other things, the 
following information:
Mr C was aged 55 and in good health. He was a self-employed builder. 
Together with his wife, their assets comprised the marital home valued at about 
£700,000, other property valued at about £140,000, cash savings of about £97,000 
and investments of about £93,000;
His wife had preserved benefits in her former employers defined benefits (DB) 
pension scheme. The trustees confirmed that she couldnt defer taking benefits any 
longer and was required to start drawing them. She expected to receive a tax-free 
lump sum of about £80,000 and a monthly pension income of about £1,000;
He had a St Jamess Place (SJP) pension plan valued at about £135,000 into which 
he was making net monthly contributions of about £800. He also had two Aviva 
pension plans valued at about £30,000 in total which included a guaranteed annuity 
rate. He wanted to retire at age 65;
His risk profile was determined to be Moderately Adventurous which was the 
equivalent of a score of 4 on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 was Cautious and 5 was 
Adventurous. 
Together with his wife, their investment objective was to re-invest her impending DB 
scheme pension to increase Mr Cs retirement provision and to invest the £80,000 
tax-free lump sum.
OLPs recommendation
In August 2019, OLP issued a suitability report to Mr C and his wife in which it recommended 
a range of investment and pension products including the SIPP at the centre of this 
complaint. For Mr C, it recommended that he invest gross monthly contributions of £1,002.75 
into a new SIPP over a term of 10 years to age 65 in a discretionary fund manager (DFM) 
portfolio to align with his recorded Moderately Adventurous risk profile. 
Mr C accepted the recommendation, following which the new SIPP was set up and he 
started paying monthly contributions.
This complaint
During 2020, Mr C became concerned about the value of his SIPP reducing. He believed 
that the advice provided by OLP was unsuitable because the value of his SIPP had been 
invested in a portfolio which he thought was inappropriate for his circumstances and appetite 
for investment risk. Due to his concerns he stopped paying contributions into the SIPP and 
complained to OLP.
OLP didnt uphold this complaint. It was satisfied that it had accurately determined Mr C as 
being a Moderately Adventurous investor and that his SIPP had been correctly invested on 
that basis.
Mr C didnt accept OLPs response and so referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This was 
because she thought that OLP hadnt adequately demonstrated why the advice to start a 
new SIPP was suitable for Mr C compared to the alternative of using his SJP pension plan. 
She also thought that there were inadequacies in OLPs approach to determining Mr Cs risk 
profile which resulted in his SIPP being invested in a portfolio that carried a higher level of 
investment risk than was appropriate bearing in mind Mr Cs circumstances.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that OLP carry out a loss assessment and 
pay any compensation due based on the notional position Mr C would be in had his SIPP 
instead been invested as follows: 50% in the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index and 50% in fixed rate bonds. She also recommended that OLP pay £300 
compensation to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience its unsuitable advice had caused 
him to suffer.
Mr C accepted our investigators assessment. OLP didnt accept it and provided additional 
comments in response. It remained satisfied that its adviser had accurately determined Mr C 
as being a Moderately Adventurous investor. It noted that he had been given several 
opportunities to query and change the categorisation but didnt do so meaning he was 
comfortable with it at the time. In summary, it stated:
Mr C was made fully aware of the associated risks involved with its recommendation;
He was presented with full details of the SIPP and was able to make an informed 
choice;
He agreed and confirmed he fully understood and accepted his risk profile 
categorisation; andThe SIPP met his needs and objectives.
Our investigator considered OLPs additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change the 
recommended outcome. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr C and OLP. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the evidence 
afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and largely for 
the same reasons. Ive explained my reasons why in the following sections.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
OLP was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its recommendation to 
Mr C. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the rules and consider 
the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs 
Handbook.
Primarily, OLP was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr C. The suitability rules 
and guidance that applied when OLP provided its recommendation to Mr C were set out in 
COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure 
theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and 
appetite for risk. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 
9.2.2R, OLP was required to gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 set out the requirement for 
OLP to undertake a fact find process.
In assessing the suitability of OLPs recommendation, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance.
Mr Cs risk profile
In my view, the crux of this complaint concerns OLPs assessment of Mr Cs risk profile. It 
determined that he was a Moderately Adventurous investor. This was defined by OLP as:
Moderately Adventurous Investors do not typically regard themselves as cautious 
people and are inclined to view risk as a source of opportunity rather than as a threat. 
They generally have significant experience of investment and find investment matters 
fairly easy to understand. They tend to make investment decisions relatively quickly 
and are not usually particularly anxious about the investment decisions they have 
made. They typically look for higher returns rather than safer investments. They are reasonably comfortable about investing in the Stockmarket and typically prefer 
riskier, but higher returning, investments to keeping money in bank deposits.
OLPs categorisation led to it advising Mr C to invest the value of his SIPP in a specific DFM 
portfolio designed to align with the Moderately Adventurous risk profile. According to the 
suitability report, this meant that the value of the SIPP would be spread across several asset 
classes as follows:
Asset group Weighting
Managed Liquidity 0.00%
Fixed Interest 15.00%
Property 15.00%
UK Value and Income Equity 20.00%
UK Growth 20.00%
Developed Markets Equity 25.00%
Emerging Markets 5.00%
In my view, this asset allocation is appropriate for an investor who has significant investment 
experience and is prepared to accept a higher level of investment risk to provide the 
potential for capital growth in excess of inflation over the medium to long term. I think the 
asset allocation broadly aligned with a Moderately Adventurous investor, as defined above.
The key question in deciding this complaint is whether I think Mr C was correctly categorised 
as a Moderately Adventurous investor. Ive reviewed the risk profile questionnaire that he 
completed. This was a series of 12 questions where Mr C was required to provide one of five 
answers in response. Ive pasted below an excerpt from the risk questionnaire where Mr C is 
labelled as J:
A score of 1 to 4 was assigned to each answer to the 12 questions  the aggregated score 
indicated the overall risk profile as either: Cautious, Moderately Cautious, Balanced, 
Moderately Adventurous, Adventurous. In Mr Cs case, the aggregated score indicated 
that he was a Moderately Adventurous investor.
Mr C answered No Strong Opinion to six of the 12 questions. The scores attached to those 
questions contributed to the overall Moderately Adventurous risk profile. Theres inadequate 
evidence that OLPs adviser scrutinised and validated Mr Cs answers to those six questions 
and whether he tried to elicit a more accurate opinion. It seems that because Mr C didnt 
have a strong opinion either way in respect of those six questions that OLP interpreted this 
as meaning he was prepared to accept a higher rather than lower degree of investment risk. 
In my view, this was a flaw in OLPs approach to assessing Mr Cs risk profile. Having so 
many No Strong Opinion answers meant there was a risk the categorisation could be 
incorrect and that the level of risk Mr C was willing to accept may have been misunderstood. 
Mr C expressed an opinion on the other six questions. He agreed that; people who know him 
would describe him as a cautious person; he had little experience of investing in stocks and 
shares; and was concerned by the volatility of stock market investments. He disagreed that 
he would be willing to take substantial investment risk to achieve substantial returns. 
Mr Cs answers to the 12 questions dont suggest to me that he was a high risk investor who 
had significant investment experience which was part of the definition for a Moderately 
Adventurous investor. So Im not convinced OLP robustly established Mr Cs risk profile.
Where theres doubt about the categorisation of an individuals risk profile it can often help to 
establish what their true appetite for risk was by looking at how their other investments were 
invested at the time of the advice. In this case, Mr C provided to this service details of how 
his Aviva and SJP pension plans were invested. This showed that these were invested in 
with-profits and a range of funds, the overall risk level of which could be described as 
broadly medium risk. So, based on this and his answers on the questionnaire, I think Mr Cs 
true risk profile was likely to be medium or balanced risk and was an investor who wanted 
capital growth with a small risk to his capital. Our investigator shared details of the Aviva and 
SJP pension plans with OLP.
In response to our investigators assessment, OLP said that Mr C was given several 
opportunities to query and change the categorisation if he didnt agree with it at the time. 
OLP has focused on the fact that Mr C didnt challenge the categorisation rather than dealing 
with whether its assessment was correct or not. I think its important to clarify that if the risk 
profile assessment was incorrect then this would remain the case whether Mr C contested it 
or not. OLP was the professional and qualified party in the transaction. Mr C was relying on it 
to provide expert advice. So I think it was reasonable for him to trust the adviser and accept 
whatever risk profile had been attributed to him, particularly since theres inadequate 
evidence the adviser scrutinised his answers to the risk questions and so Mr C wouldnt 
have had any reason to query it. The fact that Mr C signed a form stating he agreed with his 
categorisation doesnt absolve OLP from responsibility if its approach to assessing his risk 
profile was flawed or deficient in some way which I think it was, as Ive explained above.
Overall, based on how Mr C answered the 12 risk questions and without evidence of the 
adviser adequately scrutinising and validating these, Im not convinced he was correctly 
categorised as a Moderately Adventurous investor. As a result, I think OLPs 
recommendation led to Mr C exposing the value of his SIPP to a higher level of investment 
risk than he realised or was willing to accept had he known the true level of risk.
Did Mr C require a new SIPP?Mr C was age 55 at the time of OLPs advice. It was recorded that he wanted to retire at age 
65 and receive annual pension income of about £20,000 in 2019 terms. I think its fair to say, 
given his financial situation at that time, that Mr C was able to commit to paying the 
recommended gross monthly contribution of £1,002.75 for the foreseeable future given the 
source of this money would be his wifes DB scheme pension. So I dont think, based on his 
circumstances, it was unsuitable for Mr C to pay pension contributions to build up additional 
retirement provision with the aim of trying to achieve his target pension income from age 65.
In my view, in formulating its recommendation, OLP ought to have considered Mr Cs SJP 
pension plan as a viable option, particularly since he was actively paying net monthly 
contributions of £800 into it at the time of its advice. 
The recommended SIPP had an ongoing cost of 2.2% of the fund value, broken down as 
follows: 1% adviser charge payable to OLP, 0.75% plan fee and 0.45% DFM charge. The 
adviser noted in the fact find document that he had discounted using Mr Cs SJP pension 
plan due to high fees and exit penalties. But theres no evidence that the adviser carried 
out a cost comparison between the SIPP and SJP pension plan in formulating his 
recommendation. Without such evidence its difficult to conclude that the recommended 
SIPP was suitable for Mr C.
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think OLP acted in Mr Cs best interests for the reasons explained. So I think 
its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, its my view that OLP should assess and pay any compensation 
due to Mr C. In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as close 
as possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr C wouldve invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he wouldve 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given his 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What Ive set out below is in line with what our investigator previously recommended in her 
assessment of this complaint.
What should OLP do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, OLP should:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, OLP should pay into Mr Cs SIPP to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. OLP shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If OLP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Cs SIPP, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so           
Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
In line with our investigators view, its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, if Mr C wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%.
In addition, OLP should pay Mr C £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its unsuitable advice has caused him to suffer.
OLP must provide details of the compensation calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If OLP considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much 
its taken off. OLP should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs, if 
appropriate.
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From
("start
date")To ("end
date")Additional
interest
SIPP Still exists
and liquidFor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return 
Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from 
fixed
rate bondsDate of
investmentDate of
this final 
decision 8% simple 
per 
year from 
date 
of this final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not 
settled within 
28 
days of OLP 
receiving 
Mr Cs 
acceptance 
of 
this final 
decision)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the end date.
Fair valueThis is what the SIPP wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return using 
the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, OLP should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when it was actually paid into the SIPP.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
theres a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if OLP 
totals all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead 
of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for an individual 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for an individual who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr C 
wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C couldve obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct The On-Line Partnership Limited to settle this complaint as 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman