DRN-1618666
The complaint
Ms A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined her claim for critical illness 
benefit unfairly.
What happened
Ms A took out a level-term assurance policy with Aviva in 2007. Her policy had a sum 
assured of £118,200.
In January 2019, Ms A got in touch with Aviva to see if she could make a claim for a heart 
attack she suffered in August 2008. Ms A provided an email from her GP, which said she 
had suffered a Non-ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (NSTEMI)  a type of heart attack  
in 2008 and enclosed evidence from the hospital. 
Aviva reviewed the medical evidence and concluded Ms A did not suffer a heart attack in 
2008  instead, it believed she had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which was not a condition 
covered by her policy. Ms A complained to Aviva but its decision to decline Ms As claim 
remained unchanged. Aviva did acknowledge there were some delays in considering Ms As 
claim and offered her £100 compensation. Unhappy with this response, Ms A referred her 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms As complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Avivas decision to decline Ms As claim was reasonable. The investigator 
acknowledged Ms A was admitted to hospital because it was believed she was suffering a 
heart attack. But he thought the evidence showed the cardiologists that later treated Ms A 
diagnosed her as having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
Ms A disagreed with our investigators opinion. She said the consultant who diagnosed her 
with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy was wrong and she did have a heart attack with 
consistently elevated troponin levels. Ms A said its possible to be diagnosed with 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and suffer a heart attack. In response, our investigator said 
raised troponin levels can have other causes and that this diagnosis was noted by a 
consultant whose speciality was general medicine and not cardiology. Our investigator said 
cardiology specialists conducted further tests on Ms A after her discharge from hospital and 
then diagnosed Ms A as suffering hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. He said no cardiologist had 
diagnosed Ms A as having suffered an NSTEMI or any other form of heart attack. Our 
investigator still thought Avivas decision that Ms A did not meet the policys definition of a 
heart attack was a reasonable one.
Ms A remained unhappy with our investigators opinion. She said she had been mis-sold two 
life insurance policies by Aviva and didnt realise she had critical illness cover until she was 
told about it by her mortgage company in January 2019. Ms A said shed wanted Aviva to 
return the premiums she paid for her policy. Ms A reiterated she experienced a heart attack 
and said it couldnt be ruled out. In response to our investigators opinion, Aviva said it didnt 
sell Ms A her policy  it was sold by a third party when she took out a mortgage. As Ms A remained unhappy with our investigators view, her complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to acknowledge the severity of Ms As illness, which has unfortunately led to 
her making this complaint. But the question for me to decide is whether Avivas decision to 
decline Ms As claim was a reasonable one.
Ms As policy schedule states critical illness benefit is payable on diagnosis of a specified 
Critical Illness. The policy goes on to list the critical illnesses covered by the policy. A heart 
attack is defined by the policy terms as:
The death of a portion of the heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has 
resulted in all of the following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
typical chest pain;
new characteristic electrocardiographic changes;
The characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes, troponins or other biochemical markers;
where all of the above shows a definite acute myocardial infarction as having taken 
place. (Other coronary syndromes, including but not limited to angina, are not 
covered under this definition).
I note Ms A says a heart attack cant be ruled out. But Ms A needs to demonstrate to Aviva 
its more likely than not she suffered a heart attack that meets the policys definition set out 
above.
Ive reviewed the medical evidence provided to Aviva when the claim was considered. 
Ms As discharge summary from hospital, dated 4 September 2008,says Ms A was admitted 
for an NSTEMI. But this appears to be the only mention of a form of heart attack in the notes 
written by the doctors who treated Ms A for her heart condition after she was admitted to 
hospital. And this note doesnt provide a diagnosis of an definite acute myocardial 
infarction. There is a letter from a consultant occupational physician, which says she was 
diagnosed with NSTEMI. Again, this doesnt say why Ms A meets the policy definition of a 
heart attack. Instead, this letter says that subsequent investigations into Ms As condition 
confirmed she suffered from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
I think the majority of the evidence Ive seen supports Avivas conclusion that Ms A was 
diagnosed with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy  this diagnosis is explained in the letter dated 
27 November 2008, which said Ms A clearly had concentric hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
and in the further letters from the hospital dated 12 January and 16 February 2009. And 
whilst Ms As GP says she experienced a heart attack, I dont think this is supported by the 
evidence. As an example, the letter from the cardiology clinic to Ms As GP, dated 26 June 
2018, actually says she was diagnosed with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy  not a myocardial 
infarction.
I think Avivas conclusion that Ms A likely suffered from hyper cardiomyopathy is a 
reasonable one. I dont think Ms A has provided sufficient evidence to show its more likely 
than not that she met her policys definition of a heart attack. So I think Avivas decision to 
decline Ms As claim was fair. But if Ms A is able to provide further evidence which supports 
her diagnosis that she did in fact suffer a heart attack, as defined by her policy, whilst her 
policy remained in place, Aviva should reconsider Ms As claim.I note Ms As comments that she wasnt aware her policy provided a critical illness benefit. It 
appears Ms A was sold her policies by a third party when she took out her mortgage. The 
third party who sold Ms A the policy is responsible for the advice it gave her, and she may 
wish to contact the third party to discuss this further. But I dont think Ms As concerns about 
the way her policy was sold to her means Aviva is obliged to pay her retrospective claim.
I note Aviva has accepted it didnt handle Ms As claim as quickly as it should have done  
she made her claim in February 2019 and Aviva declined it in June 2019. The delays here 
were relatively short, so I think the £100 compensation Aviva has already offered fairly 
acknowledges the inconvenience caused to Ms A by any delays in the handling of her claim.
My final decision
I realise my decision will disappoint Ms A. But for the reasons explained above, I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman