DRN-4120242
The complaint
Mr M says ReAssure Limited was responsible for a delay in paying the remainder of his 
pension funds as requested and for a history of poor customer service. He says this caused 
him financial detriment, trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr M called ReAssure on 1 September 2022 to ask about making a final withdrawal from his 
pension and closing the account. The residual value of the fund was about £3,600.
ReAssure issued forms to Mr M for completion and these were returned by him via email on 
2 September 2022, as well as by post. In an email dated 6 September 2022, ReAssure sent 
him an email which confirmed:
your money will be in your bank account within the next 5-7 working days.
Mr M chased the receipt of his monies on 14, 16, 20 and 21 September 2022. On 14 
September 2022, ReAssures call notes state [Mr M] is abroad and needs monies asap. 
The reasons for the delay changed between these calls. First, ReAssure told Mr M payment 
had already been made; then that it was stuck in the system; and then the task had not been 
allocated and that the previous information had been incorrect. Finally, Mr M was advised 
the payment needed to go through a manual calculation before it could be paid, with no turn-
around time provided. 
Mr M received the payment from his pension on 23 September 2022. But he says he had 
bills to pay in the intervening period and he incurred additional interest charges he couldve 
avoided had his money been paid without delay.
Mr M complained to ReAssure about what happened. It accepted responsibility for the things 
that had gone wrong and apologised. It also offered him £100 in recognition of the 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mr M brought his case to this Service. He told us about the impact of ReAssures handling:
I had bills to pay on 13 September and no funds to pay them. I had to make a series of 
expensive transfers from credit cards to debit cards (cash transaction fees of ca £65) plus 
interest. I did not have the use of my money. I spent several hours on telephone calls with 
ReAssure preventing me from working (my hourly rate is €94).
An Investigator reviewed Mr Ms complaint and upheld it. He thought ReAssure needed to 
increase its offer to him by taking into account the excess interest charges hed incurred and 
increasing the payment for distress and inconvenience. In its last submission to this Service 
ReAssure agreed to increase its award but proposed a different approach on redress.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators conclusions, Mr Ms complaint has 
been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about these and gaps in what we know, my role is to 
weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most 
likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres broad agreement between the parties about what happened in this case. So, my 
focus is on how to put things right fairly.
Putting things right
The purpose of redress is to return the customer to the position they wouldve been in now 
but for the failings of the business. That said, its often the case that the approach isnt 
scientific because certain assumptions have to be made about what shouldve happened.
The Investigator concluded Mr M shouldve been able to rely on what ReAssure told him 
about when his funds would be available. This meant his money shouldve been in his 
account for use from around 14 September 2022. I think this is a reasonable assumption.
Mr M has provided evidence showing his current account wouldve been out of overdraft on 
14 September 2022 had his pension been received then, but it remained in debit until 23 
September 2022 until receipt of the payment. During this period he incurred overdraft 
charges of £23.79.
Mr M has also shown that he paid a due store card instalment on 14 September 2022 for 
£320 using a credit card, incurring interest of 22.44% simple annual interest on that amount. 
He was also charged a cash transaction fee of £16.30 on the same day.
Had Mr Ms pension payment been received into his current account on 14 September he 
wouldnt have faced these increased charges. So, its reasonable for ReAssure to meet 
these costs up until 23 September 2022. And to this sum it should add 8% simple annual 
interest from the relevant date (when the costs were incurred) until it settles.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ms, I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation where failings have occurred, separate from pure financial loss. This isnt 
intended to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real 
difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of ReAssure Limiteds actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or 
upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.Mr M was looking to draw a line under his relationship with ReAssure, to close his pension 
and to use the funds for everyday expenditure. ReAssure Limited has accepted it got things 
wrong and has now agreed an increased total offer of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. I think this is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ms case. ReAssure Limited should now put 
things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman