DRN-3448083
The complaint
Mr B complains that Leeds Building Society treated him unfairly when he had financial 
difficulties as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr B took out an interest only mortgage with Leeds in 2017. He was in financial difficulty in 
2020 having become unemployed during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr B decided to move 
nearer to a place where he could find work and he put his property on the market for sale. 
Leeds agreed a six months payment deferral (in accordance with the regulators guidance at 
that time) and further concessions after this. Mr B repaid the mortgage in June 2021 when 
the property was sold.
An ombudsman sent a final decision to Mr B for a previous complaint relating to the early 
repayment charge (ERC) in his mortgage contract. In summary, the ombudsman looked into: 
whether Leeds was entitled to apply the ERC and if it was fair to do so; if Leeds should 
waive the ERC due to the pandemic; if Leeds had taken Mr Bs circumstances into account 
when deciding whether to waive the ERC, including that there was equity in the property; if 
the ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of early repayment of the mortgage; if 
£75 was fair compensation for the time taken to respond to Mr Bs request to waive the ERC. 
Our investigator has told the parties that I wont be looking into these matters again here.
Mr B says:
Leeds didnt abide by its values in dealing with customers in financial hardship. He says 
it should have re-assessed the suitability of all mortgage contracts
Leeds actions pushed him into financial difficulty
Leeds harassed him by contacting him on New Years Eve
Leeds intercepted emails intended for its CEO, about the CEOs behaviour not upholding 
the values
Leeds continued to send him secure emails, which it knew he was unable to open.
Our investigator said, in summary, that Leeds hadnt made an error or treated Mr B unfairly. 
He said it offered support during Mr Bs financial difficulties. Mr B didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The early repayment charge
As there has already been a final decision relating to these matters, I wont comment on 
them further here. Ill only look into matters not addressed in that final decision  for instance 
a new event or a change in Mr Bs circumstances since then. 
Mr B repaid the mortgage in June 2021 and Leeds applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do 
under the mortgage terms and conditions. Mr B told Leeds he decided to move to be nearer 
potential employers. Leeds say Mr Bs loan to value was about 51% at the time of 
redemption, which suggests he had equity left after repaying the mortgage and ERC. 
Mr B made some new points about the ERC, and whether it can or should be applied. We 
offer an informal dispute resolution service and we dont have the same powers as a 
regulator or a court. 
Only a court can decide whether a contract is legally binding and enforceable. If Mr B 
believes the Covid-19 pandemic in some way caused his mortgage contract to be 
unenforceable, hed have to raise this in court. 
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) didnt require lenders to waive ERCs 
in guidance issued during the Covid-19 pandemic. If Mr B considers this an error, hed need 
to raise this with the regulator. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Leeds to refund 
the ERC.
Did Leeds offer support when Mr B was in financial difficulties
Mr B became unemployed during the Covid-19 pandemic. Leeds agreed payment deferrals 
for six months, for May to October 2020. In accordance with the regulators guidance no 
adverse data was recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result. Leeds wasnt required by the 
regulator to waive interest during the payment deferral. 
Mr B continued to experience financial difficulties and wasnt able to sell the property by the 
end of the six months payment deferral. After receiving information from Mr B about his 
income and expenditure, Leeds offered a three months zero payment concession. 
Mr B says Leeds doesnt have a process to check he was able to resume payments when 
the concession came to an end. I dont think thats fair. The concession was in place for a 
specified period, during which Leeds accepted payments of less than the contractual 
monthly payment. Once the concession ended, a new concession could be agreed or the 
account would return to the contractual terms. If Mr B expected to continue to have difficulty 
meeting his contractual monthly payment he could have contacted Leeds and ask for further 
support. I think it was fair for Leeds to ask Mr B for updated income and expenditure in order 
to offer a new concession.
Mr B experienced some difficulties in completing and returning a budget planner. Leeds 
didnt receive the budget planner Mr B says he posted in March 2021. There was a small 
delay (six working days) in Leeds posting another budget planner to Mr B after becoming 
aware of this. Leeds offered £50 compensation for the delay. Once the budget planner was 
received, Leeds offered a zero-payment concession for three months. 
By this time, Mr B had made payments in March, April and May 2021. Leeds offered to apply 
a zero payments concession retrospectively and refund the payments (which would increase 
Mr Bs arrears). Mr B declined, saying hed already found the money and made 
arrangements with family and friends. I dont think it was unfair for Leeds to offer this: Mr B 
might have found a refund helpful in meeting other outgoings. 
After the first six months of payment deferrals, Leeds reported missed payments and arrears 
to the credit reference agencies. I dont think this was an error or unfair. Leeds has to report 
accurate and up to date information to the credit reference agencies. The information it reported was accurate  contractual monthly payments were missed and the account was in 
arrears. 
Overall, I think Leeds treated Mr B fairly when he contacted it about his financial difficulties. 
It offered support with zero payment concessions while the property was marketed for sale. I 
dont think its fair to say that Leeds caused Mr Bs financial problems. I think its more likely 
this was due to him being unemployed and unable to meet his outgoings from his income.
Did Leeds communicate fairly with Mr B?
Mr B said it was wrong for Leeds to contact him on New Years Eve, which he says is a day 
for family, free from the troubles of the working day. While many people choose to celebrate 
New Years Eve, it is a working day. Leeds contacted Mr B within normal working hours, to 
ask for an update on his circumstances and the house sale. I dont think it was unfair for 
Leeds to contact Mr B on New Years Eve.
Mr B said Leeds put his sale and purchase at risk by delaying sending a redemption 
statement. Leeds issued a redemption statement by fax three working days after receiving a 
request from Mr Bs solicitor. I dont think there were unreasonable delays here. 
Mr B said his concerns about Leeds CEO not upholding the values were intended for the 
attention of the CEO. Leeds has a complaints team. It said it was more appropriate for its 
complaints team to deal with Mr Bs complaint than its CEO. I note that Leeds told Mr B that 
the CEO had read his comments and would have access to the outcome.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, meaning it isnt something we can look into. I 
wont be looking into how Leeds chose to respond to Mr Bs complaint, or the time it took to 
respond. 
Leeds is also entitled to decide on its values and how to implement them in its processes. I 
can consider whether Leeds treated Mr B fairly, taking relevant law, regulation, industry 
practice and his circumstances into account. I think its more appropriate for Leeds to decide 
whether it had upheld its values. 
Its unfortunate that Mr B was unable to open secure emails. However, I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Leeds should have sent Mr B emails by less secure means. I can see 
from Leeds notes that when Mr B couldnt access the budget planner it completed this by 
phone. I can also see it tried to contact him by phone and in writing if he didnt respond to a 
secure email. I think this was a reasonable way to deal with the matter.
Overall, I think Leeds communicated fairly with Mr B.
What happens now?
Leeds offered Mr B compensation, for instance for a delay in sending a budget planner to 
him. I leave it to Mr B whether to accept compensation offered by Leeds (if he hasnt already 
done so). I dont think Leeds made an error here that would make it fair and reasonable to 
require it to refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr B.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman