DRN-3064984
The complaint
  Ms M complains about a loan provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as Loans 2 
Go, which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
  Loans 2 Go provided Ms M with a loan. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Instalment Amount Instalments
1 01/06/2020 68.57 300 18 months
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He thought 
Loans 2 Go should have sought further information and, if it had, it would have seen Ms M 
was having problems managing her finances. He concluded Loans 2 Go shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to Ms M.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our Investigators view. It said Ms M had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the loan. It added that although Ms M had some credit impairment, on the 
whole her credit report was positive with her maintaining repayments. It says it carried out 
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When Loans 2 Go lent to Ms M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Ms Ms creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk to it that Ms M wouldnt make the repayments 
under the agreement when due, and the risk to Ms M of not being able to make these 
repayments. In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Ms Ms ability to make repayments 
under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a 
contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ms 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Ms M about her income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it adjusted Ms Ms income and expenditure based on an online verification tool 
for her income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for expenditure. It says 
it made its calculations about Ms Ms expenditure by using what it saw in her credit report 
and also added a buffer of 10% for any unexpected spend.  
It reduced Ms Ms declared income from £1600 a month to £1503.61 after verifying this. It 
then increased what Ms M says her expenditure was of £450, to £1274.95, based on checks 
it carried out this included a credit search. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Ms Ms 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I acknowledge the comments it has made, but 
I dont think its checks were proportionate for this loan. This is because I can see there was 
a discrepancy between what Ms M said about her expenditure and what it says it could see 
through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have accepted the loan knowing or 
having reason to suspect Ms M wasnt being truthful about her expenditure in this case. In 
this instance the discrepancy between what Ms M said her expenditure was and what Loans 
2 Go calculated it was, was wide. So, I think Loans 2 Go should either have carried out 
further checks to see if there were good reasons for this, or it shouldnt have provided Ms M 
with the loan. This leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take additional steps to 
verify what Ms Ms actual monthly expenditure was.In addition to this, Loan 2 Gos credit search results for Ms M showed credit impairment. She 
had two defaulted accounts with balances yet to be settled. So, I think this ought to have 
further prompted Loans 2 Go to want to get a better understanding of Ms Ms finances at the 
time to ensure she would be able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way.
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for the loan, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Ms M would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Ms M could make her loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Ms M has provided for the months leading up to her application for the loan. Having done so, 
its clear to me that Ms M was reliant on using finance to cover a short fall in her finances 
including taking loans by other short-term lenders. At the time Loans 2 Go granted the loan, 
Ms M was paying off 3 open short-term loans with other finance providers. She was also 
persistently in his overdraft which was attracting fees. So on balance, after looking through 
her statements, I think Ms M was struggling to manage her finances and its more likely to 
me that the loan repayments for this loan from Loans 2 Go wouldnt have been sustainable. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Ms M would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Ms M.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with the loan for the reasons given above. 
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Ms M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Ms M received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Ms M made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Ms M was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Ms M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Ms Ms credit file because of the loan;*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman