DRN-4277767
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way TSB Bank plc has treated him, culminating in it taking 
possession of his property while he was abroad and leaving him homeless.
What happened
Mr As interest-only mortgage with TSB came to the end of its 25-year term in 2014. Mr A 
says he took out an endowment policy to repay the mortgage, but the policy has since 
disappeared.
The last payment to the mortgage was made in March 2017, and the mortgage balance has 
increased since then. TSB took legal action and, in July 2018, it was granted an Order for 
possession in the County Court. Mr A was ordered either to leave the property by 
6 August 2018 or pay the outstanding mortgage balance. If he didnt do so, the Order said 
TSB could ask the Court to authorise Mr As eviction, without a further hearing.
Mr A subsequently complained about the missing endowment policy and the way TSB was 
treating him. Complaints were dealt with by TSB, the endowment policy provider, and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, but Mr A felt he hadnt had satisfactory answers.
In April 2023, the County Court issued a notice entitling TSB to take Mr As property into 
possession. Possession went ahead on 8 June 2023.
Mr A complained. He said he had gone abroad for medical treatment, and he had told TSB 
in April 2023 that he was going and that he wouldnt be contactable for three months. He 
was unhappy that TSB had gone ahead with repossession and he wanted the property back. 
TSB said it hadnt been able to come to an agreement with Mr A for repayment of the 
mortgage, so it had continued with legal action and it had told Mr A it was doing so. It had 
begun the process to take possession well before Mr A went away, and it hadnt received 
any medical evidence in order to consider whether to put action on hold. Its next step would 
be to arrange the sale of the property. 
Mr A referred his complaint to us. He said he had been left homeless as a result of TSB 
repossessing his home while he was abroad getting medical help. He was also still unhappy 
about his missing endowment policy and that TSB has his date of birth wrong on its records. 
He felt he had been treated very unfairly.
Our Investigator said we couldnt look at Mr As complaints about the endowment policy and 
date of birth, as they had already been dealt with. She didnt think Mr As complaint about 
TSB taking possession of the property should be upheld.
Mr A didnt accept that and asked for a review. He still felt TSB had let him down and treated 
him very unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that, besides his complaint about TSB having taken possession of his 
property, he remains unhappy about how his date of birth came to be wrong on TSBs 
records and that no-one has been able to find the endowment policy he says he took out to 
repay the mortgage.
Mr A has complained before about the endowment policy, including to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, so its not appropriate for me to make a decision about that here. If he 
has a complaint about the endowment policy which he hasnt made before he may wish to 
raise that separately with TSB. Mr A has also complained to TSB before about its record of 
his date of birth, and TSB sent him its final response about that in January 2022. Mr A didnt 
refer that complaint to us within the six-month deadline TSB set out in its letter, and TSB 
hasnt consented to our considering that matter now. I also dont find that exceptional 
circumstances meant Mr A couldnt refer that complaint to us in time  so I cant consider it 
here.
Ive noted what Mr A has told us about his poor health, and I was sorry to read about his 
situation. I also recognise that losing his home will have been very difficult for him. However, 
having considered everything both he and TSB have said and provided, I dont find that I can 
fairly uphold this complaint.
Possession should be a last resort, and mortgage lenders should only take this step where 
all other reasonable attempts to resolve the situation have failed. Thats set out in the rules 
of mortgage regulation. Lenders should offer forbearance where appropriate. However, 
forbearance cant fairly continue indefinitely  that wouldnt generally be in the borrowers 
interests, since interest on the mortgage continues to build up the longer it remains 
outstanding.
Mr As mortgage came to the end of its term nine years ago, and the last payment was made 
more than six years ago. Mr A says TSB should have offered him a payment plan. Lenders 
should work with borrowers to come to an arrangement for repayment of a mortgage, but it 
wouldnt be appropriate for them simply to set a payment plan without first establishing, 
through discussions with the borrower, that such a plan would be affordable. After six years 
of no payments having been made to Mr As mortgage, I think its clear that no affordable 
plan could be agreed. Besides that, Mr As mortgage was already well past the end of its 
term when payments stopped in 2017, and TSB was entitled to expect it to have been repaid 
in full by then. 
TSB has said it gave Mr A details of where he can get free financial advice and guidance, 
and suggested he contact the Department for Work and Pensions to see what help he may 
have been able to get with his mortgage. Ive seen copies of letters where it has set this out 
for Mr A  and I dont think I can fairly conclude it did nothing to direct him towards 
appropriate sources of help or try to support him.
Mr A says that TSB repossessed his home while he was abroad having medical treatment, 
leaving him homeless when he returned. He says he told TSB he was going and he would 
be uncontactable for three months, but it nevertheless went ahead and took his property 
without telling him. Ive listened to recordings of Mr As phone calls with TSB in April 2023. Im satisfied that 
Mr A told TSB in early April that he would be away having treatment and couldnt be 
contacted for three months. Im also satisfied that, on 6 April, TSB:
- told Mr A that the Order for possession issued in 2018 was still valid and TSB was 
looking at going back to Court to get an eviction date;
- asked Mr A whether he had contacted the free advice agency they had discussed 
previously as he had said he would;
- told Mr A it wasnt going to stop action to take possession of his property because it had 
been trying to resolve the issue of non-payment with him since 2017;
- told Mr A that if he was planning to try to sell the property himself he should put it on the 
market as soon as possible and let it know he had done so;
- told Mr A that a doctors letter would be helpful to say that he would be away for an 
extended period getting medical treatment, as his case was with TSBs solicitors and 
there was a risk of eviction which Mr A may not be around to deal with.
In a call on 11 April, Im satisfied that:
- TSB told Mr A that his case was with its solicitors to arrange a court date for eviction, 
and if it was to stop proceedings, it needed evidence that Mr A was going away for 
treatment;
- Mr A said he didnt want to discuss the matter and ended the call.
 
Ive also seen a copy of a handwritten, undated letter from Mr A, which TSB says it received 
from Mr A in March 2023. The letter said:
I have noticed your action to repossession [] I do have a plan to resolve the matter this 
will only happen when I have come to the end of the road because the company who have 
no [sic] provided my endowment policy we may have to look at taking them to court. 
There is no mention in the letter of Mr A needing to travel abroad soon afterwards for 
medical treatment.
Its clear from the calls and correspondence that Mr A understood TSB was planning to take 
possession and he had received letters about this. Its also clear that he was unhappy about 
the situation  but I find nothing to indicate that TSB said it would stop action or that it 
received any doctors letters or medical evidence. 
Mr A was able to contact TSB, and us, a number of times during his three-month period 
abroad, when he found that possession had gone ahead. TSB said it would hold off from 
taking further action  that is, selling the property  if it received evidence of an offer of an 
equity release mortgage, which Mr A had mentioned he was looking into. It also said it would 
arrange access to the property so that a valuation could be carried out. 
In all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont consider that TSB acted unfairly in going 
ahead with possession action. I find that it made clear to Mr A what it was doing and what it 
needed from Mr A to stop proceedings. I realise that Mr A is in a very difficult position and 
wants his property back, but there is no reasonable basis on which I might fairly require TSB 
to arrange that  given that theres nothing to indicate Mr A has taken steps to look at his 
options for repayment of the mortgage. He has had a considerable amount of time in which to do that since the mortgage term ended in 2014 and since the Order for possession was 
issued in 2018.
For these reasons, while I realise Mr A will be very disappointed, I make no order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman