DRN-2934900
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt carry out sufficient checks before giving 
him a substantial loan. Hed like the interest removed and the loan deleted from his credit 
file. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr H applied for a loan with Shawbrook. And on 24 January 2020 
Shawbrook lent Mr H £9,000 repayable over 60 months, with an interest rate of 14.8% and 
monthly repayments of £208.86. 
Mr H successfully made the first two payments, but he started missing payments from 
March 2020 and by May 2020 he couldnt afford repayments and entered into a debt 
management plan. 
In December 2020 Mr H complained to Shawbrook that theyd lent to him irresponsibly. 
Shawbrook looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it  they explained that on Mr Hs 
application he said he had an income of £56,250 and this was verified by the bank when 
they offered him the loan.    
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and asked Shawbrook some further 
questions about the affordability checks the bank completed before offering Mr H the loan.
Shawbrook provided details of Mr Hs credit file and an affordability report from a third party 
Ill call C  including loans and credit card debts. This information showed that Mr H had:
A significant increase in his debts to income ratio over the previous 12 months. With 
total debts of over £29,000. 
In the three months prior to the loan Mr H made the minimum payments towards his 
credit cards 75% of the time. And had three balance increases on his credit cards 
and one new loan.
The bank confirmed they didnt ask Mr H for any additional evidence to support his 
application. 
Shawbrook also explained they phoned Mr H to confirm he could afford the repayments and 
the purpose of the loan  for home improvements. 
After looking at the evidence Shawbrook provided, our investigator thought that the bank 
should have carried out additional checks considering the size of the loan, level of borrowing 
Mr H already had and the number of loans recently taken out. They recommended that the 
interest was removed from the outstanding balance and any negative information was 
deleted from Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H accepted our investigators opinion but Shawbrook didnt. In summary they said:
The decision to accept was based on the banks lending criteria and on information 
Mr H provided.
Mr Hs income was verified
They phoned Mr H and confirmed he could afford the repayments, and they were for 
home improvements. 
His inability to pay the debt coincided with the first Coronavirus lockdown, and this 
might be why he couldnt afford the repayments.
The bank isnt sure what additional checks they should have completed. 
As Shawbrook didnt accept our investigators opinion its been referred for me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders have a responsibility to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to determine 
if a customer can afford a loan. The relevant regulations outline the sorts of factors which 
need to be considered when looking at what checks are proportionate. These include:
the type of credit
the amount of the credit
the duration of the credit
Shawbrook lent Mr H a large loan of £9,000 over a long repayment period  60 months. 
Ive considered what checks Shawbrook completed on the loan application. The bank has 
explained that Mr Hs income was verified and the lender contacted Mr H who confirmed the 
purpose of the loan  home improvements  and that he could afford the repayments. 
Ive looked at the evidence available to Shawbrook at the time of the application. The 
affordability report Shawbrook were provided by C, highlights that Mr Hs income had 
increased by 212% over the past 12 months. And over a three month period hed had three 
balance increases, one loan taken out and 75% of the time he made the minimum payment 
on his credit cards. 
Shawbrook also had access to Mr Hs credit file which showed at the time of the application 
he was over £29,000 in debt. 
Ive thought about whether based on the above Shawbrook carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. And I dont think they did. Id expect additional checks to have been 
completed once the bank identified the number and frequency of Mr Hs recent loans and the 
total amount of debt he was already repaying. 
Shawbrook explained that prior to approving the loan they contacted Mr H to discuss if the 
repayments were affordable and the purpose of the loan. Ive listened to this call  and I 
agree Mr H did indicate the loan was affordable for him. However, Shawbrook didnt ask 
Mr H any further questions about the level of debt he was currently in, the loans hed 
recently taken out or his increase in income. 
Ive moved on to consider what would have happened if Shawbrook had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks.  Ive thought about what sort of additional checks Id have expected Shawbrook to carry out  
and what these checks would have revealed. The relevant regulations arent specific on 
exactly what checks need to be completed, but Ive considered what I think would have been 
most appropriate in the circumstances. 
Ive thought about the phone call Shawbrook had with Mr H, and I think the lender should 
have questioned Mr H much more thoroughly about his level of debt and the affordability of 
the current loan. And asked for evidence to support Mr Hs responses. I think it would have 
been reasonable for Shawbrook to ask for a copy of Mr Hs bank statements going back at 
least three months prior to the loan application. 
I need to then consider whether, based on the extra checks Shawbrook should have 
completed, theyd have shown Mr H wasnt on balance able to sustainably repay the loan. 
Looking at the most recent bank statement, prior to Mr Hs application, dated 
21 December 2019 to 20 January 2020 I can see almost 40 separate deposits to various 
gambling websites totalling over £2,700. Mr Hs bank statements would have also shown his 
monthly income was significantly less than the amount Shawbrook had verified. 
Im satisfied if Shawbrook had reviewed a copy of Mr Hs bank statements, theyd have 
shown that Mr H wasnt on balance able to sustainably repay the loan. And for this reason I 
dont think Shawbrook should have approved Mr Hs loan application. 
 
In response to our investigators opinion, Shawbrook said:
Mr Hs inability to pay the debt coincided with the first Coronavirus lockdown, and this might 
be why he couldnt afford the repayments. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr Hs inability to pay for the loan was the result of the 
Coronavirus lockdown  considering the amount of debt Mr H already had, over £29,000  
its clear he was already experiencing financial difficulties prior to the loan being approved. 
Shawbrook also argued that the decision to lend was based on the banks lending criteria, 
information Mr H provided and that his income was verified. However, for the reasons Ive 
already explained its Shawbrooks responsibility to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks  and due to the size of the loan, the number of loans Mr H already had and when 
he'd taken them out I think Shawbrook should have carried out more checks. If the bank had 
done so Im satisfied that the additional checks would have shown on balance Mr H wouldnt 
have been able to sustainably repay the loan. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think Shawbrook lent irresponsibly to Mr H and should 
rework his account as Ive directed below. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr H 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Hs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Shawbrook should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shawbrook to deduct tax from this interest. Shawbrook
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman