DRN-2482063
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2007. The policy was taken out to cover 
Mr Ss mortgage. It provided him with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld, concluding that the policy
hadnt been mis-sold. Mr Ss representative didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me 
to consider.
My provisional decision
I agreed with our adjudicator that the optional nature of the policy was made clear and that 
Nationwides recommendation was not unsuitable taking into account Mr Ms circumstances 
at the time. But I explained why I didnt think it was necessary to detail the reasons why Id 
come to that conclusion. I said:
The policy was taken out on 26 July 2007 and it was cancelled on 1 August 2007. 
Mr S did not pay anything for the PPI during this short period. So he did not incur any 
costs in taking out the PPI. Where a PPI policy is found to have been mis-sold, we 
require the business to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI by refunding the cost of the policy, plus interest. This means, 
even if I found the policy had been mis-sold, there wouldnt be anything Nationwide 
needed to do to put that right, because Mr S didnt pay anything for the policy.
Neither party provided any additional information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision. Nationwide repeated that, in its view, the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not need to consider whether the policy was mis-
sold because Mr S didnt make a financial loss as a result of the sale. Neither party has 
provided any additional evidence to show that he did pay anything for the policy, so I see no 
reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman