DRN-1316837
 
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the amount of compensation Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) paid her after it handled her buildings insurance claim badly. 
What happened
Mrs D claimed on her buildings insurance for damage to her hall and study carpets caused 
by her puppy. She also reported water damage to her living room carpet caused by a leaking 
radiator. RSA said it would raise a separate claim for the living room carpet but Mrs D 
decided not to go ahead with that one. RSAs loss adjuster assessed the damage and his 
report confirmed that the policy covered the claim for the chewed hall and study carpets. The 
claim also covered the stairs and landing carpets because they were a continuation of the 
hall carpet.
RSA thought it might be able to stretch the study carpet rather than replace it. From this 
point, confusion arose between RSA and its agents, leading to an investigation of Mrs Ds 
claim for the study carpet. RSA declined the claim for the study carpet so Mrs D complained. 
RSA agreed it had made mistakes and reversed its decision. It covered the cost of the study 
carpet, as well as the hall, stairs and landing. It also paid £250 in compensation to Mrs D for 
the way it handled her claim. Mrs D didnt think the compensation was enough and asked us 
to look into it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that RSA upheld Mrs Ds complaint 
about her claim and corrected its mistakes. So the issue of compensation was the only 
outstanding matter. Our investigator reported that the lengthy claims process and confusion 
caused by RSAs failure to record the claim investigation details correctly resulted in it 
declining the claim. She noted that Mrs D was upset at being treated as if she had lied, even 
though RSA made the mistakes which caused misunderstanding with its own agents. 
In light of these points, our investigator felt RSA was right to compensate Mrs D and that 
£250 already paid for the distress and inconvenience was fair. 
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators view and she still thinks the compensation isnt 
sufficient to address the upset and inconvenience caused. So the complaint is with me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see that RSA correctly accepted Mrs Ds original claim for damage to the study and hall 
carpets in line with her buildings insurance. That shouldve been the end of the matter but, 
because of its service shortfalls, RSA carried out an inappropriate investigation and declined 
the claim. RSA corrected its mistake and paid the claim. So, my role here isnt to decide whether the claim was valid  its to look at how RSA handled the claim and to decide 
whether the  compensation paid by RSA is fair. 
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs D and RSA agree that it incorrectly recorded details of her claim, causing it to 
investigate further and record that she lied about the damage to her study carpet. RSAs 
account notes show it didnt always respond to Mrs D and she had to describe events 
repeatedly to try to get RSA to deal with her complaint properly. RSA doesnt dispute these 
points so I need to think about the impact it wouldve had on Mrs D.
I can understand that Mrs D was upset and annoyed that RSA said she lied about the 
damage to her study carpet, especially as RSA already confirmed she had a valid claim. I 
also acknowledge her concern that the investigation might affect future insurance policies 
and claims. However, I am satisfied that as RSA corrected its mistakes, confirmed she had a 
valid claim and paid for the damage, Mrs D wont need to declare on future policies that RSA 
declined her claim. So theres no reason it would affect future insurance claims. 
I accept Mrs D felt frustration, inconvenience and distress because she had to repeat her 
complaint and details of the events leading up to it. A financial award wont fix this but it will 
go some way to acknowledging the upset she experienced. RSA paid £250 in recognition of 
its mistakes. I considered this in light of the impact its mistakes had on Mrs D, as noted 
above, and I am satisfied that it is a fair amount to resolve her complaint. I dont think RSA 
needs to make any further payments.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman