DRN-3615895
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) charged him a success fee 
after he received a refund of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI), even though hed 
cancelled the agreement many months earlier.
What happened
In mid-2018 Mr M instructed WFAC to act on his behalf in claiming refunds of PPI from 
several different lenders.  He signed a letter of engagement, agreeing to WFACs terms and 
conditions, and letters of authority, allowing WFAC to contact his lenders to establish and 
pursue a claim.
Towards the end of 2018, Mr M received an offer from one of the lenders.  WFAC invoiced 
him for their fee, calculated at the rate of 39%.  Mr M challenged this, as he was aware that 
claims management companies (CMC) offering their services to recover PPI had had their 
fees capped at 24%.  After some correspondence, WFAC agreed to reduce their fee to 24% 
and Mr M settled their invoice.
Mr M said he was unhappy with how WFAC had dealt with this and that he told WFAC he no 
longer wanted to use their services, including in relation to a claim with a lender Ill call L.  He 
says he then heard nothing more from WFAC until late 2021.
L made Mr M an offer in early 2019.  WFAC sent him an invoice in respect of the claim 
against L towards the end of 2021.  Mr M complained, as he said hed not heard from WFAC 
for many months and theyd had no authority to act for him since the end of 2018.  He also 
complained that WFAC had tried to extract a success fee of 39% from him, when a fee of 
only 24% was due.  And he said WFAC had breached data protection regulations by 
continuing to deal with his claim.
WFAC said in response that Mr M had signed an agreement allowing them to charge a fee 
of 39%.  Hed done this on 10 July 2018, which was the day the fee cap was introduced.  
WFAC had charged him at this lower rate.  And they said theyd charged subsequent fees  
including those charged in respect of L  at a rate of 24%.
WFAC said the letters of authority Mr M had signed covered the entire duration of his claim.  
So theyd not breached data protection regulations.  And they said that their fees were due 
as Mr Ms claim had been successful.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with WFACs response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded WFAC didnt need to do anything differently to 
resolve it.  He found no evidence that Mr M had cancelled his agreement.  And he was 
satisfied WFAC had completed the work which had led to Mr M receiving a refund from L  
so they were entitled to their fee.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and reiterated that hed ended his contract with 
WFAC in late 2018 and hadnt heard from them since.  Ive now been asked to make a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive started by studying the terms and conditions signed by Mr M.  I can see, under the 
heading Our fees it says:
We charge a total fee of 39% (including VAT) of any Compensation awarded to you by Your 
Creditor(s) (the Success Fee). The total you will therefore be charged, including VAT at the 
current rate, is 39% of any Compensation which is awarded to you.
Although the terms set the success fee at 39%, I dont think that was wrong because, at the 
time they were sent to Mr M, there was no fee cap in place.  And when Mr M challenged 
their invoice, WFAC reduced it to 24% of what hed received  as I think they should have 
done.
Mr M said it was WFACs handling of this issue that meant he didnt want to continue using 
their services  and WFACs lack of contact after this led him to believe they werent acting 
for him any more.  Ive thought about this.
Its clear that WFAC sent claims to L on Mr Ms behalf.  And those claims were related to the 
accounts detailed in Ls offer letter.  So Im satisfied the claims submitted by WFAC were the 
ones which resulted in a payment by L to Mr M.  And, on that basis, the terms and conditions 
provide for WFAC to be paid a success fee.
Mr M says he cancelled his agreement before then.  Ive considered this.  But Ive seen no 
evidence the agreement was cancelled at the end of 2018.  WFACs notes dont record this.  
And its clear from their files they continued to pursue claims for Mr M  including referring 
matters to the Financial Ombudsman Service  well into 2019.  Im not persuaded theyd 
have done this if the agreement had been cancelled.  Nor have I seen any evidence WFAC 
charged Mr M the fee they were entitled to in the event of cancellation.
And, in any event, even if Mr M had cancelled, the terms and conditions say:
If, after termination of this Agreement for any reason, except for breach by us, but including 
cancellation by you, you receive an offer or award of Compensation in relation to any 
Relevant Claim the Success Fee will be payable, but any Cancellation Fee you have already 
paid will be credited against it.
As Ive said above, Im satisfied the claim submitted by WFAC resulted in the payment to   
Mr M.  So, under this term, the success fee is due.  And for that reason I dont think WFAC 
need to do anything different to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about We Fight Any 
Claim Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Helen StaceyOmbudsman