DRN-2610349
The complaint
Mr P has complained that after his car was stolen, Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limited (Watford) declined his claim on his motor insurance policy as the log-book was not 
in his name.
What happened
Mr P paid for a car in April 2018 which was collected by his relative who entered his own 
name in the cars log-book (V5). Mr P took out car insurance with Watford in April 2019 
through an online price comparison website. Unfortunately, Mr Ps car was stolen in March 
2020. Mr P then made a claim on his policy which was declined by Watford.
Watford said that as the cars log-book was not in Mr Ps name, he wasnt recorded as the 
cars owner and registered keeper as he had originally declared when he took out his policy. 
Watford said Mr P had misrepresented his ownership of the car and the law entitled it to 
repudiate his claim. Watford later said that it wasnt avoiding Mr Ps policy but cancelling it 
and so didnt need to give him a refund of his premium.
Mr P complained about Watfords actions. Watford gave its final response in April 2020 and 
said that it didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint because if Mr P had disclosed information 
correctly, he wouldnt have been offered a policy. Mr P brought his complaint to this service 
and one of our investigators looked into it. The investigator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint. 
He said it was reasonable for Watford not to pay Mr Ps claim as he had misrepresented his 
information, but his misrepresentation had been careless and so he should receive a refund 
of the premiums paid for 2019/20.
Neither Mr P nor Watford agreed with the investigators view. Mr P felt that he should have 
been paid out the full amount of his claim. Watford didnt consider that it should have to 
refund Mr Ps premium with interest as it said that the policy was cancelled in April 2020 due 
to a misrepresentation by Mr P, not avoided.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide the matter in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law is found in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). It says that its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to the insurer. The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. If a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, an insurer may treat the 
insurance contract as if it never existed, retain the premium and refuse all claims.
Under the Act, if a consumer fails to take care in giving or confirming information, the insurer 
has certain remedies. It doesnt necessarily have to pay a claim if the misrepresentation is 
what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on different terms, 
or not have offered it at all if the consumer had given the correct information.
CIDRA also sets out considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these considerations is how clear and specific the insurers 
questions are. Watfords position is that Mr P was asked clear questions on the online price 
comparison website when he bought the policy and that it had acted within its policy terms. 
Ive looked at how Mr P applied for the policy, the answers provided, and the information 
confirmed by the business in the proposal form included with its welcome letter in April 2019.
When he arranged the policy, the questions online were;
- Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper and legal owner? If he said no this gave
a further dropdown box to answer;
- Who is the registered keeper?
- Who is the legal owner?
An explanation on this page confirms; If you are unsure the log book records the cars 
registered keeper which is not necessarily the same as its legal owner.
The proposal form which was then sent to Mr P confirms the answers;
- Are you the owner of the vehicle  Yes
- Are you the registered keeper of the vehicle  Yes
- Are you the main user of the vehicle  Yes
The proposal form states; You should also ensure that the information you have provided in 
this statement is accurate. If it is incorrect in any way, please tell your intermediary 
immediately. Failure to supply accurate and complete answers may mean Your Policy is 
invalid and that it does not operate in the event of a claim.
Mr Ps insurance policy also states; You are required by the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 to take reasonable care to answer all questions 
asked honestly, accurately and to the best of Your knowledge and that any other information 
given either verbally or in writing by You, or on Your behalf, at the time You applied for 
insurance is also complete. Failure to supply accurate and complete answers may mean 
Your Policy is invalid and that it does not operate in the event of a claim.
In the circumstances, I must firstly consider the clarity of the question Mr P was asked. Mr P 
responded yes to the question; Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper and legal 
owner? I accept that Mr P was intending to become the registered keeper and legal owner 
and therefore, by answering yes, he gave a response that may have been correct at that 
time. 
The response was then converted by Watford into a proposal form which was differently 
worded and confirmed that Mr P was, at the time of that proposal, the owner and keeper of 
the vehicle and made no reference to future ownership. This is a finely balanced matter, 
however on balance, I consider that although Mr Ps initial response was correct, he was 
also clearly warned that he needed to check the accuracy of the information in his proposal 
form and throughout the duration of the policy. Unfortunately, his failure to correct this 
proposal amounted to a misrepresentation and I consider that it would have been 
reasonable to expect Mr P to have checked this information.What I must secondly consider is whether this misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or 
careless. CIDRA says that a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer 
knew the answer was untrue or misleading or didnt care if it was untrue or misleading. A 
misrepresentation is careless if it isnt deliberate or reckless.
Mr P has been frank and has admitted that he meant to change the log-book to his name 
after his relative collected his car for him. In his complaint to this service, he said; The fact 
that the log book was not in my name was not done deliberately with malice or for any other 
reason other than an oversight. I dont even know how doing this deliberately would benefit 
me in any way.
In all the circumstances, Im persuaded that Mr Ps non-response or correction of the 
proposal form entries was careless and indeed unintentional, as opposed to being reckless 
or deliberate. Watford has also now accepted that this was a case of carelessness.
Finally, I must consider the consequences of a careless misrepresentation by Mr P. Watford 
has provided evidence in the form of its underwriting criteria which shows that if Mr P had 
not made this misrepresentation, it wouldnt have provided cover, as the proposal would 
have been classed as an unacceptable risk. Im satisfied in all the circumstances that if Mr P 
had disclosed the information correctly, he wouldnt have been offered a policy by Watford 
Insurance.
Watford states that it is; still entitled to charge time on risk and that; This policy was not 
voided but cancelled. While the claim made was not paid, due to the policyholder having 
misrepresented who was the registered owner and keeper, he was still on cover and was 
shown as insured on the  database. As the policy was live for almost the full term, the 
cancellation return of premium is £6.08.
I dont accept Watfords submissions in this respect however. Under Schedule 1 of CIDRA, 
the insurers remedies are set out and if the insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract 
on any terms, which is the case here, the insurer may avoid the contract and refuse all 
claims but must return the premiums paid. Watfords responses on this complaint are 
confused, in that it cites CIDRA as its reason for declining the claim but doesnt apply the 
legal remedy in the Act to Mr Ps policy, which is avoidance.
Im therefore satisfied that Watford was entitled to avoid Mr Ps policy in accordance with 
CIDRA but not to cancel it and retain the majority of the premium. This in effect means that 
his policy never existed. Watford does not therefore have to deal with his claim following the 
loss of his car. Under CIDRA however, Watford should return Mr Ps premium. I think CIDRA 
provides the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ps complaint. I 
require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to pay Mr P a refund of his car 
insurance premium for 2019/2020 in the sum of £503.47.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman