DRN-3865070
The complaint
Mrs B complains through her representative that ReAssure Limited havent paid her the 
proceeds of an endowment plan she held with them. For ease of reading, I will only refer to 
Mrs B.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mrs B took out a 10-year savings plan with a business (B1) in 1990. She wrote to B1 
in 2021 and said that shed like the proceeds of the plan as she hadnt received 
anything when it matured.
B1 replied and explained that the plans had been transferred to ReAssure.
Mrs B contacted ReAssure but they said that the plan hadnt ever migrated over to 
them and therefore they were unable to investigate the issue and assist her in 
cashing in the plan.
Mrs B asked us to help and one of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt 
uphold the complaint as he couldnt find any evidence to suggest that the plan had 
migrated to ReAssure or that they were in possession of the outstanding proceeds.
Mrs B didnt agree with his findings and, in summary, reiterated that she hadnt 
received any payment when the plan matured. By the time the plan matured shed 
married her husband, changed her name and had moved four times. She wanted to 
know how ReAssure or B1 could have contacted her if they didnt know her new 
name or address.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion and as theres been no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information I have is incomplete or unclear as it is here, I must base my decision 
on the balance of probabilities i.e., what I consider is most likely to have happened in the 
light of the available evidence and wider surrounding circumstances. 
ReAssure have said that they searched their systems using the policy number of the plan 
and can find no record of it. Because of this, they think its most likely that the plan 
terminated before it was transferred over to them. B1 have also confirmed that they hold no 
records of the plan.
Ive considered what ReAssure have said, and Im inclined to agree with them. They are only 
expected to keep records of plans that havent been paid out or are still in force. I dont 
dispute Mrs Bs testimony and I accept that there is a possibility that she didnt receive the 
maturity value of the plan. But I think that if there was an outstanding amount to be paid out, 
then they would still hold some record of it on their systems. I also note that the last record 
Mrs B has regarding the policy is a letter from 1995 enclosing the 1994 bonus certificate. 
The lack of any record of the plan on ReAssures or B1s systems and also the lack of any 
correspondence post 1995 - some five years before the expected maturity date - makes me 
think that it is more likely that the policy lapsed or was paid out. 
In summary, and while Im aware my decision will disappoint Mrs B, I dont think I have 
sufficient evidence to fairly say that ReAssure need to pay her the maturity value of the plan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman