DRN-3081664
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Christian Paul Gachet trading as Easylogbookloans.Tv (ELL) lent 
to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms W was given a logbook loan of £500 by ELL in June 2019.  This was due to be repaid in 
12 monthly instalments of around £101. The total amount payable, including interest, was 
just over £1,220. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think ELL had acted 
irresponsibly or unfairly when it lent to Ms W. But Ms W didnt agree with the adjudicators 
assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms W 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
ELL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms W irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks before it lent to Ms W to satisfy 
itself that she could repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry 
out a borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, 
the repayment amounts and Ms Ws income and expenditure. But there was no set list of 
checks ELL had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
There is limited information available from either ELL or Ms W. From what Ive seen, ELL 
asked Ms W to declare her income and regular monthly expenditure before it provided the 
loan to her. Ms W declared her benefit income and some additional regular income from 
another source. ELL says it wasnt its practice at the time to carry out credit checks
Ive considered whether or not ELL ought reasonably to have done more to check Ms Ws 
true financial position, given that she didnt appear to be employed and was reliant largely on 
benefit income. But on balance, I think the checks that ELL carried out before lending to Ms 
W were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
Ms W has provided her own credit report to us. Generally, the information a consumer might 
see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender might only see a portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. New credit commitments can take some 
time to appear on a credit report and so dont always appear in any reasonable and 
proportionate checks that are carried out at the time. Nonetheless, I have reviewed the credit 
report that Ms W has provided. There is some adverse information on the report, but I think, 
if ELL had carried out a credit check at the time, it would have been reasonable for it to have 
considered this to be largely historic. And with the limited information provided, Ive not seen 
anything which I think ought reasonably to have signalled to ELL at the time that Ms W was 
experiencing severe financial difficulties or that she had significant commitments to other 
creditors.
Taking things as a whole, Ive not seen anything that I think should have led ELL to 
reasonably conclude that lending to Ms W would be unfair or irresponsible in some way. 
I havent seen enough for me to say that I think that ELL treated Ms W unfairly in some other 
way. And as I have explained, I cant fairly say that I think ELL lent to Ms W irresponsibly.
If Ms Ws loan is still outstanding, I would expect ELL to be mindful of its obligation to treat 
her positively and sympathetically and to try to arrange a repayment plan that is affordable 
for Ms W. I know Ms W will be disappointed by my decision. But I would like to reassure her I 
have carefully considered all the information that has been provided. Having done so, I am 
not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Christian Paul Gachet trading as Easylogbookloans.Tv. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman