DRN-4250867
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way in which British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) handled 
a claim under her Homecare home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
British Gas made an offer of around £1,500 to cover the cost of the kitchen flooring which 
was damaged. Ms C didnt think this offer was fair so rejected it. 
Ms C obtained two quotes to repair the damage totalling around £11,000 and £55,000. The 
quotes included replacing flooring in the lounge and hallway, as well as the kitchen. 
British Gas ultimately referred the quotes to a loss adjuster and offered Ms C just over 
£7,000 to cover the cost of replacing the kitchen flooring (the settlement offer). The 
settlement offer wasnt accepted by Ms C.
As well as being unhappy with the settlement offer, Ms C doesnt think British Gas acted 
fairly. She says it shouldve had contractors available in her area to provide a quote, rather 
than leaving it to her to obtain quotes. Because of delays in obtaining quotes, she says she 
lost the opportunity to advertise her property for sale, given the damage to the flooring hadnt 
been repaired. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. Mrs C 
disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. 
I can see that the issue regarding the damage to Ms Cs property has been ongoing for a 
long time and I can understand her frustration. 
Ms C has raised other complaints about British Gas, one of which has been determined by 
an Ombudsman in March 2022. Another is being considered separately by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. For the avoidance of doubt, in this decision, Ill focus on the issues set 
out in the background section above. 
I know Ms C will be very disappointed but for the reasons set out below, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
In early 2022, British Gas told Ms C that the contractor it had used to provide a quote 
with a view to do the repair work needed had no available fitters in the area she lived 
to replace the kitchen flooring. It offered to make Ms C a cash settlement of around 
£1,500 to get this work done herself, which was in line with the price it had been 
given for the materials. I can understand why Ms C feels that British Gas should have 
been able to source a contractor to repair the flooring. But, in principle, I dont think 
its acted unfairly by offering to pay her a cash settlement to arrange for this this work 
to be done herself. 
Ms C was unhappy with the monetary sum offered and for the reasons shes said in 
response to our investigators view, I can understand why. However, Im satisfied that 
British Gas promptly agreed for her to source her own quotes by way of comparison. 
And I think that was a reasonable suggestion at that stage, given the circumstances.
Ms C was only able to obtain one quote as she told British Gas that all other firms 
she contacted were busy and couldnt do the work until July 2022. At that stage, in 
the circumstances of this case and to move the issue forward, I dont think British 
Gas acted unfairly by then suggesting she contact the home insurer for the property 
to make a claim for the damaged kitchen flooring and for the home insurer to 
counter-claim against British Gas. I dont think British Gas ought reasonably to have 
suggested this sooner as it wouldnt have known that Ms C would struggle to obtain 
quotes from contractors to do the repair work needed to her kitchen flooring.
Ultimately, the home insurer could not assist. Given that British Gas could not source 
another contractor to quote for the repair works, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
British Gas to reiterate that it would consider any quotes Ms C was able to get - and 
restate its offer to pay Ms C around £1,500 for the kitchen floor (and a further £2,200 
to help if any kitchen units need removing which couldnt be determined at that 
stage). 
Looking at what happened, I accept that there was then a period of a few months 
with little progress. Ms C was again trying to query with the freeholder of her property 
whether the home insurer might cover the costs in the first instance. I dont think I 
can reasonably hold British Gas for this. And from what Ive seen, throughout this 
time Im satisfied that British Gas continued to see whether its contractors had 
availability  for example in March and June 2022  which I think is reasonable. 
I know Ms C was considering moving in May 2022 and instructed an estate agent to 
value the property. And shes provided evidence that her property has more recently 
been valued around £75,000 less than it was in May 2022  the implication being that 
if she were to now sell, she would receive considerably less than she wouldve done 
if shed marketed her property last year.  However, on the balance of probabilities, 
Im not persuaded that even if the repair work had been carried out earlier in 2022, 
she wouldve marketed the property and/or it wouldve been sold. There are too 
many variables. Further, for reasons stated above, I dont think it would be fair for me 
to hold British Gas responsible for the unavailability of contractors to provide quotes 
for the repair work; a problem that both sides had encountered. Thats, of course, 
very unfortunate for Ms C but it was outside of the control of British Gas. 
Eventually Ms C was able to get two quotes; one totalling around £11,000 and the 
other around £55,000. Looking at the breakdown of works for both quotes, I dont 
think it was unfair for British Gas to rely on the lower quote as being an accurate 
reflection for the work needed. That quote included removing and replacing the 
lounge flooring. I dont think it was unreasonable for British Gas to explain to Ms C 
that the cost relating to lounge flooring would have to be met by her. Theres no 
evidence that the lounge flooring had been damaged. I can understand why Ms C 
asked for this to be replaced as gesture of goodwill. But as this flooring was in a 
different room in the property, I dont think British Gas acted unreasonably by not 
offering meet the cost of replacing it. 
When an agreement couldnt be reached, I dont think British Gas unfairly referred 
the quotes to an independent loss adjuster. And I can see that it supported removing the cost of replacing the lounge flooring from the lower quote received by Ms C, 
which formed the basis of the settlement offer.
Ms C hasnt accepted the settlement offer as she doesnt want to be personally 
responsible for any costs that may exceed this quote. I know shes concerned that if 
the door attached to the integrated washer/dryer machine cant be repaired, it will 
need replacing. And this might result in all kitchen doors/cupboards having to be 
replaced and thats expressly not included in the quote. However, Ive seen no 
evidence that this is likely to happen, so I dont think British Gas has acted 
unreasonably by repeating its offer to pay Ms C the settlement offer. And, when 
responding to our investigators view, I note Ms C also thinks this isnt likely as she 
says the settlement offer might not be sufficient to cover the costs in the unlikely 
event a full kitchen replacement would be necessary, and a full floor replacement be 
necessary [my emphasis].
Ms C also says the service charges for her property have increased. Ive seen 
evidence that they have gone up, but this reflects the increase is due to the total 
budget being increased over the last three years. Theres nothing to suggest that the 
increase was caused by any failings by British Gas or because of the escape of 
water incident. 
Ms C also says she missed out on job opportunities because she was without a 
washing/dryer machine, she was spending time dealing with British Gas and due to 
other personal issues. I dont think I can reasonably hold British Gas responsible for 
her missing out on job opportunities. It seems that Ms C was going through a very 
difficult time but British Gas had agreed to pay for her laundry costs during this time. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Ms C did use laundry services and was reimbursed 
her expenses. So, Im not persuaded worries about not being able to wash her 
clothes was the main reason for Ms C not pursuing job opportunities.   
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman