DRN-3752756
The complaint
Miss M complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund her for three transactions 
totalling £20,600, which she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 25 April 2022, Miss M went into a Lloyds branch. She saw that three faster payments 
had been made from her account on 20 April, for £1,800; £5,300; and £13,500. Miss M told 
Lloyds that she hadnt made any of these payments.
Lloyds investigated. But it didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. In its final response letter, it 
explained that:
- On 11 April, Miss M had registered a new mobile on her online banking. She also set 
up biometrics (fingerprint / face recognition) on the device.
- The same day, Miss M tried to make a £1,000 faster payment. Lloyds blocked this for 
security reasons and asked Miss M to visit a branch. She did, and Lloyds unblocked 
the account but Miss M decided she no longer wanted to send the payment.
- On 20 April, the first disputed payment, for £1,800, was carried out using Miss Ms 
online banking, on the same device Miss M had registered and had verified on 11 
April. The device was accessed using Miss Ms biometrics.
- Lloyds blocked this payment too for security reasons, and asked Miss M to ring. The 
incoming phone call was from the same number which Miss M had used to ring 
Lloyds on 11 April, and Lloyds said the voice matched hers. It asked security 
questions, which the caller passed, and the £1,800 payment went through.
- Lloyds said that Miss M had confirmed no-one else had access to her device  and in 
any case no-one else could use her biometrics. 
Miss M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said shed never made so many 
payments to a single beneficiary before, and hadnt given consent, so she had no idea why 
Lloyds hadnt blocked them. She said the way Lloyds had dealt with this was utterly 
disgusting. She said she hadnt phoned Lloyds as it had claimed, and thought someone had 
been impersonating her.
Miss M said shed been massively affected. She had £20,000 missing from her account, and 
hadnt been able to use her account for over a month, and had had to spend over ten hours 
in the branch where the customer service was awful, and she hadnt been offered water. She 
said this was a waste of her time when she makes a lot of money by the hour. It had also 
severely affected her mental health, and she said shed been extremely poorly from stress 
and shock. Miss M also said that shed received letters from loan companies about attempts 
to take out loans in her name, but fortunately these hadnt gone through.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. He said that the three disputed payments 
were all made using the device Miss M had registered on 11 April, and it had been accessed 
using biometrics. Lloyds had blocked the account when the first disputed payment, for 
£1,800, had been attempted. Miss M had phoned Lloyds to confirm it was genuine, so the 
account had been unblocked which was why the other payments had gone through. The 
investigator said hed listened to the calls. He said that someone who was clearly not Miss M 
had phoned Lloyds on 21 April, but Lloyds had referred that person to a branch and no 
payment had been authorised. But the investigator said that the voice which authorised the 
first disputed payment appeared to match Miss M when shed phoned Lloyds head office 
from the branch, after being verified with ID.
Miss M didnt agree. She said she needed her money back, and asked whether Lloyds could 
go to the recipients bank to get the money back. She said that just because the voice on the 
phone call sounded like her, didnt mean that it was her. 
Miss M also said that shed gone to a branch as she hadnt been able to use her card on 
several occasions, including being blocked from buying shoes online. She said she didnt 
know the person to whom the three disputed payments had gone. She said her device 
hadnt made the disputed transactions, and she hadnt phoned Lloyds. She said that she 
was going to be homeless so what could she possibly gain from any of this. She said that 
the third party ringing Lloyds must have been who made the other calls, impersonating her. 
Miss M asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Miss M has said shes been very distressed by these events. Im sorry to 
hear that, but I need to look at what I think is more likely than not to have happened, and 
whether or not Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the regulations about 
disputed payments.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in April 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the computer evidence to show 
that the payments were authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to look at who was most likely to have authorised the three disputed 
payments.
Who authorised the three disputed payments?First, the disputed transactions were carried out on Miss Ms registered phone, using her 
biometric data. Miss M confirmed to our investigator that she had two phones with online 
banking registered, and she still had both of those. She said she hadnt stored her security 
details anywhere, and nobody else had access to them. Even if a fraudulent third party had 
somehow obtained Miss Ms phone and security details without her knowledge  and 
returned them without her realising  I cant see how any third party could have used them, 
when the transactions were done using Miss Ms unique individual biometric data. 
Miss Ms biometric data had also been used the day before, 19 April, to set up the new 
payee, using her registered device. 
Miss M has said that she believes the person who made a call to Lloyds on 21 April  the 
day after the three disputed transactions - was the person who impersonated her. But I cant 
see that this can be the case. Ive listened to all the calls supplied by Lloyds. It appears to be 
the same person on all of these except for the 21 April call. The 21 April call was quite 
clearly not the same person as the female voice on all the other calls. Also, Lloyds staff 
quickly picked up on the discrepancy, and gave the individual no information, and didnt debit 
Miss Ms account. They just told the person to go into a branch with ID. In any case, that call 
happened after the disputed transactions had already taken place. So I dont agree that the 
person who rang Lloyds on 21 April impersonated Miss M successfully and was the reason 
for the three disputed transactions which had already taken place.
But all the other calls Ive listened to appear to be the same person. In particular, Ive 
checked the call which came in to Lloyds after the first disputed payment, for £1,800, was 
blocked for security. I agree with our investigator and with Lloyds that the voice on that call 
sounds very similar to all the other calls made by Miss M, including those where shed been 
verified in the branch with her driving licence which had been checked for its authenticity. So 
I consider that its most likely that it was Miss M who confirmed the first disputed payment for 
£1,800 was genuine, after Lloyds security system initially blocked it.
The later two disputed payments, for £5,300 and £13,500 were made to the same payee, 
and also used Miss Ms biometric data. So I consider its more likely than not that it was Miss 
M who authorised these, too. This means that I dont require Lloyds to refund Miss M for any 
of the three disputed payments.
Other matters
Miss M has also complained that she had to spend over ten hours in the branch, and wasnt 
offered water, and her time was wasted. I cant tell exactly how long Miss M was in the 
branch, though I can see that she went to the branch a number of times. But Lloyds has a 
responsibility to keep customer money safe, and to investigate all claims of fraud thoroughly. 
To do that, it sometimes required her to go in person to a branch to take identification. So I 
dont consider that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably when asking Miss M to go to a 
branch with identification, or in taking time to make sure its fraud team thoroughly 
investigated the circumstances of the disputed payments. Lloyds final response letter was 
also issued well within the time limit required.
Miss M also said that shed had letters from loan companies, though she told us that this 
hadnt resulted in any loans being fraudulently set up in her name. Theres no obvious 
connection between any such letters and the very specific issue of the three disputed 
transactions from Miss Ms Lloyds account, so this isnt something thats relevant to this 
decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman