DRN-3388150
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are deeply unhappy with the way National Westminster Bank Plc treated Mr M 
after his account was blocked. As Mr M has brought the complaint I will refer to him 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
NatWest restricted Mr Ms access to his accounts for two days after a transaction he made 
was blocked on 29 August 2021. He was asked to provide proof of identification in a branch 
to allow the transaction to go ahead. He called back to cancel the transaction, explaining it 
was vital he had online access to his accounts to monitor his finances. He had to call back 
again on 31 August 2021 after his debit card didnt work for those two days and nor had he 
online access, NatWest then removed the block.
Mr M says the inability to monitor his finances caused him significant stress: he has a 
number of accounts, with multiple payments due and a high value of funds held at the bank. 
NatWest explained that it followed its standard process when it blocked the transaction for 
fraud checks, in line with the terms of the account. But to recognise the poor service Mr M 
received when he called in it credited his account with £75.
Mr and Mrs M say this does not acknowledge their tenure. They want a full apology; that the 
bank be censured for its attitude to a long-term, loyal client; and more meaningful 
compensation.
Our investigator found that NatWest had acted in error on 29 August 2021 when it failed to 
restore Mr Ms online banking access after he called and confirmed the blocked transaction 
could be cancelled. He did not find it had done anything wrong when it initially blocked the 
transaction. He noted that the £75 compensation already paid was for the poor service Mr M 
received when he called to resolve this. But he found the bank still needed to apologise for 
the impact of its error on Mr M and it should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset its error caused him.
Unhappy with what he sees as a derisory level of compensation given he has been a faithful 
client for over 60 years, Mr M asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the compensation 
needed to increase ten-fold to be meaningful. So the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the facts of this case do not appear to be in dispute  NatWest was within its rights to 
block the initial transaction for fraud checks, but could have lifted the block and restrictions 
on Mr Ms online banking that same day when he called to say the transaction could be 
cancelled  I will focus here on what remains in dispute: how NatWest should put things 
right.
Mr M told us about the impact of the banks error on him. He holds significant funds with the 
bank and says he suffered both physically and mentally when he lost access to his accounts 
over the bank holiday weekend.  He also found the banks response troubling, citing a lack of 
respect and care for supportive long-standing customers. He confirmed he suffered no 
financial loss as a result of the two-day restriction. 
I have thought carefully about what Mr M has asked for. I think his request for an appropriate 
apology is fair. Whilst the final response letter apologised for poor service on the phone, 
NatWest has not acknowledged the distress Mr M experienced. This could have been 
prevented had NatWest removed the block and re-instated the online banking access when 
Mr M agreed the blocked transaction could be cancelled.  For this it should apologise. 
In terms of financial compensation, Mr M suffered no financial loss that needs to be made 
good. But he has clearly experienced personal distress. I find the investigators 
recommended payment of £100 to be fair and reasonable. In reaching this conclusion I have 
considered the loss of banking services Mr M experienced, but also the length of time he 
was without the facilities - and that it did not cause him any financial loss which would, I 
expect, have increased his distress. 
Putting things right
NatWest should now send a letter of apology and £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs M. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman