DRN-3428554
The complaint
Mr L complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) wont refund the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
For context, Ive set out a table of the disputed payments. Ive not included the (now 
refunded) card payments as these didnt form part of Mr Ls referral to our service:  
Date Amount Description
19/05/2020 £2,500 Payment to Alephlink via online banking
20/05/2020 £5,501 Payment to Alephlink via online banking
21/05/2020 £4,000 Payment to Alephlink via online banking
22/05/2020 £3,000 Payment to Alephlink via online banking
27/05/2020 £1,500 Payment to Alephlink via online banking
29/05/2020 £3,000 Payment to Alephlink via online banking
02/06/2020 -£90.14 Successful withdrawal from the trading account
02/06/2020 £2.47 Transaction fee 
03/06/2020 £5,103 Payment to Alephlink via online banking
04/06/2020 £5,007 Payment to Alephlink via online banking
Total loss £29,523  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations and general banking terms, first direct 
has a duty to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So 
although its not disputed that a scammer duped Mr L into making these payments, 
the starting position is that hes liable. 
That said, there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into 
account relevant rules, codes, and best practice ought to have identified a potential 
fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the 
transaction before making the payment. If they failed to do so, and that failure led to 
a fraudulent loss for their customer, it may be fair to hold them liable.
Initially, I dont think first direct had cause for concern. The £2,500 didnt appear so 
unusual, within Mr Ls general account activity, that Id have expected it to perform 
further checks. Nor are there any indications that the payment could have been 
successfully recovered; it was loaded onto the trading platform. But when Mr L paid a 
further £5,501 the next day, I think first direct ought to have been suspicious. There 
was a known pattern of fraud emerging, and the activity was uncharacteristic for 
Mr L. He didnt have a history of making payments of this size, and he was 
transferring over £8,000 to a new, international payee in two days. So I think first 
direct should have performed further checks to satisfy itself on whether all was well. 
If first direct had appropriately questioned Mr L about the circumstances of the 
£5,501 payment, I think he would have explained he was investing with Blix Group  
whod told him they were regulated. So first direct could have checked the company, 
or guided Mr L on how to do this. That would have revealed, not only were Blix Group 
unregulated, the FCA had issued a warning against them. As a new investor, I think 
Mr L would have heeded a warning/direction about this from his bank, and so would 
have realised it was a scam - preventing him from making this or the subsequent 
payments. 
First direct disputes that Mr L would have mentioned Blix Group, as he didnt when 
reporting the scam. But he wasnt asked about this. And he didnt name anyone else, 
such as Alephlink (who didnt  yet  have an FCA warning against them) as the 
scammers; he only mentioned them when explaining how the disputed transactions 
showed up on his statements. And both companies (Alephlink and Blix Group) have 
the same address, lending credibility to Mr Ls assertion about who he was dealing 
with. Hes consistently referred to Blix Group as the perpetrators. So if asked at the 
time, Im persuaded he would have mentioned them  uncovering the scam.  
Ive considered if Mr L should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. And I think he should. He says he looked up Blix Groups reviews and 
was reassured, but Ive seen negative reviews predating his payments. And when he 
reports that he did start seeing negative reviews, and struggled to get responses 
from them about withdrawing more funds, he was able to uncover that they werent 
regulated. But while first direct thinks it would be fair to reduce the compensation by 
50% to reflect this, Im persuaded a 20% deduction is fairer. This was still a 
sophisticated scam, seemingly involving a fake trading platform, and Mr L was an 
inexperienced investor. He knew less than the bank about the warning signs and 
what to check. 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund Mr Ls loss from the payment of £5,501 onwards, less a 
20% deduction for contributory negligence. And it should pay 8% interest on this amount 
from the dates of payment to the date of settlement. 
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman