DRN-3745276
The complaint
Mr A and Mr R complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited declined their claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) relating to their purchase of solar panels.
Mr A and Mr R are represented in this case by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around November 2017, Mr A and Mr R were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at his home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr A and Mr R decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In November 2019 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr A and Mr Rs behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr A and Mr R to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which he could sell to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding after eight years;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000).
Mr A and Mr R also complained about the systems performance, as they say it has been 
generating less energy than the installer told them it would at the point of sale. And they 
complained that the roof had been damaged during installation, resulting in damp.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr A and Mr R or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr A and Mr R. But he did think that the system was not performing as it 
should, and so on that basis he upheld this complaint.
Shawbrook didnt accept the adjudicators view. It consulted P, which suggested that it 
should inspect the system to identify the problem and see if it can be remedied.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
(Shawbrook also asked for up to date FIT statements. The adjudicator has requested these 
from the CMC, but I dont think I need to wait for them, as these can still be provided after 
I have issued this decision. I will address this later on in my decision.)
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr A and Mr R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr A and Mr R could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way he could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr A and 
Mr R and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
The quote
Shawbrook has provided the quote it says the installer provided to Mr A and Mr R at the time 
of the sale which is entitled Your Personal Solar Quotation.
Im satisfied that this quote was a central part of the sales presentation. I think this document 
is also relevant when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact and is 
particularly helpful when considering Mr A and Mr Rs recollections of the sales process.
Damp
I have seen no evidence that the damp or the damage to the roof were caused by the 
installation not being carried out correctly, or that this issue was raised with P or Shawbrook 
within six months of the installation. Under section 19 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, it is 
for the consumer to prove that any fault or damage arising after more than six months was 
the fault of the installer. So I do not think that Shawbrook was wrong to decline that part of 
the section 75 claim; that was a decision it was entitled to make.
Benefits and performance of the system
Having read the quote, I think that Mr A and Mr R were told that the system would pay for its 
cash price over an eight year period, not that it would be self-funding from the start. Therefore, I cannot agree that the installer misrepresented the panels as being self-funding 
from the start.
The quote has a table setting out the systems estimated performance over 25 years. Based 
on this, Im satisfied that the installer told Mr A and Mr R that the system would pay for itself 
by year 13, as the accumulated grand total of income and savings would by that time have 
exceeded the total cost of the system (including the finance costs). If that turns out
not to be true and if Im satisfied that this induced Mr A and Mr R into entering the contract 
and they suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
Mr A and Mr R have provided their meter reading for 3 October 2022. This shows the system 
has generated 12,477 kWh since it was installed on 26 November 2017. This works out as 
an average of 2,570 kWh a year.
In a number of places in the quote the installer has estimated that the system would 
generate 2,992 kWh of electricity a year. The MCS certificate says 2,959 kWh. So it can be 
seen from the FIT statements that the system has significantly underperformed compared to 
the installers estimates from the point of sale  only 86 or 87% of what was estimated. (It 
was already underperforming within six months of installation, according to the FIT 
statements  75% in March 2018  so Im satisfied that the problem was present at the point 
of sale.)
Im satisfied that the estimated generation and the subsequent FIT payment and electricity 
savings would have induced Mr A and Mr R into entering the contract. The generation and 
therefore income are significantly lower than they were promised so they have suffered a 
loss.
Mr A and Mr R raised underperformance in their claim to Shawbrook in 2019. Shawbrook 
failed to address this point in their investigation. Theyve had time to take action and look 
into this but have not, and I do not propose to delay the resolution of this complaint any 
longer for that to happen now. Instead, I need to establish a reasonable way forward for this 
case without the benefit of that evidence.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A and Mr Rs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by making 
sure that Mr A and Mr R doesnt suffer a financial loss. In my view that would mean that the 
solar panel system should generate roughly what was promised in the quote.
So Mr A and Mr R should provide their most recent FIT and electricity statements to 
Shawbrook via the CMC, and then Shawbrook must:  
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income (through 
the FIT and savings) for Mr A and Mr R and what the sales paperwork set out as 
being the annual total income savings, and
b) add simple interest to that amount at the rate of 8% a year (from 26 November 2017 
to the date of settlement), and pay the total to Mr A and Mr R (either directly or via 
the CMC).
To ensure that Mr A and Mr R dont lose out going forward, Shawbrook must then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume that 
the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of the finance agreement,
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the conclusion 
of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction identified in 
paragraph c) above,
e) pay Mr A and Mr R the difference between the revised amounts calculated in 
paragraph d) above and the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
I also direct Shawbrook to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman