DRN-2856666
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt agree to the term extension of 
their interest only mortgage. Mr and Mrs D want Barclays to stop pursuing them for the 
redemption of the mortgage and compensate them for their distress, inconvenience and loss 
of rental opportunity.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have had an interest only mortgage with Barclays from July 2006. The term 
was 14 years. The balance due at the end of term was about £160,000. In June 2020 Mr and 
Mrs D were living apart and neither was living in the property. The property was empty and 
being prepared to rent out by Mrs D. Mr D was living in another property with a residential 
mortgage but also had a buy to let property from which he was getting a rental income. 
In a conversation with Barclays in June, Mr D told Barclays that they werent in a position yet 
to redeem the mortgage in full. Mr D said that they wanted to liquidate a number of 
investments including ISA, endowment and pension and sell the second property but were 
unable to market it due to the pandemic. So, Mr D suggested paying off £100,000 from his 
savings and asked to take out another mortgage over a period of two years or one year or 
re-mortgage the mortgaged property as a buy to let. Barclays said that it couldnt provide a 
buy to let mortgage on the property as there was a suggestion that Mrs D might move back 
into the property in the future and it would become residential. Barclays refused the term 
extension mortgage as Mr D failed the affordability assessment. 
Mr and Mrs D complained and in July 2020 Barclays responded to say that it couldnt 
provide them with a term extension on affordability grounds, but they could contact the 
Customer Home Assistance Maturities Team or Home Solutions Team to discuss potential 
options available to help paying an outstanding balance
Mr D wrote in response on 13 July 2020 making several points including that Barclays hadnt 
considered his complaint properly and requesting that Barclays authorise its Home Solutions 
Department or its Home Assistance Maturities Team to accept payment of £100,000 and 
grant a minimum extension of 12 months for the balance to be paid.
Mr D called on 30 July and spoke to a Barclays adviser. I note the account was put on hold 
until 29 August 2020. The phone note taken by the adviser says that Mr D was seriously 
thinking of paying off £100k and then rep plan within 2 years based on MDI. MDI, I 
understand to mean maximum disposable income. During August the account was reduced 
following a payment of about £72,000. There was some discussion about the endowment 
policy and whether or not it was with Barclays. It appears not to have been as Barclays didnt 
hold a deeds pack and in September it sent a letter of disclaimer to the insurer.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Barclays and in November Barclays issued its final response 
letter and noted that a payment plan was agreed and that the payment of the outstanding 
balance on the mortgage had been postponed until October 2021. That letter offered Mr and 
Mrs D £150 for the time it took to investigate the complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that Barclays had done nothing 
wrong. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of their mortgage, Mr and Mrs D were to repay the mortgage by July 2020 
but didnt do so. Neither party was living in the property, but they wanted to let it out and 
make some income on it. I see that Mr D refers to a potential net income of £10,000. So, Mr 
D applied for a mortgage on the property which Barclays refused on affordability grounds. Mr 
and Mrs D say that this is unfair.
Like our investigator I cant fairly say that Barclays did anything wrong. On an application for 
a new mortgage, the bank should look at the affordability which it did and failed the 
application. The bank can set aside the affordability assessment in certain circumstances. 
But these circumstances are geared to the best interests of consumers who may not be able 
to remain in their home at the end of the mortgage term not commercial profit. In my view 
those circumstances didnt apply here.  Mr and Mrs D were living elsewhere and didnt use 
or require this property for their own residential purposes. Their interest in the property 
appears to have been strictly commercial and I cant fault Barclays for applying strictly 
commercial criteria to the mortgage application.
That said, Barclays should be sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Ds attempts to pay off the balance 
at the end of term. Although Barclays clearly wanted paid, the contact notes reflect a 
continuing engagement with Mr and Mrs D about their plans to pay off the mortgage after the 
maturity date. In the event Barclays agreed to a delay until October 2021 and I note that Mr 
and Mrs D refer to that as a satisfactory outcome in their letter to us of 3 June 2021. 
I have looked at the other points that Mr and Mrs D make in that correspondence. I simply 
dont find that it was fair that Mr and Mrs D should automatically have got a 12-month 
extension to their mortgage. Barclays was entitled to look at the affordability of a new 
mortgage and if the 12 months was unaffordable, it could look at other methods of repaying 
the mortgage within a reasonable period and thats what it appears to have been doing. As I 
say the contact notes indicate that Barclays was continuing to engage with Mr and Mrs D 
about their repayment plans when it agreed an extension which Mr and Mrs D found 
satisfactory. We are not a regulator and our role is not to see if Barclays internal paperwork 
confirms with FCA guidance. Our role is to investigate complaints in which I bear in mind 
FCA Guidance on these types of mortgages as it would have affected Mr and Mrs D. 
Bearing that in mind, for the reasons set out above, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
I note that Barclays offered Mr and Mrs D £150 for the delay in responding to the complaint. I 
believe that figure is appropriate for that. But in respect of the main complaint I dont accept 
that Barclays did anything wrong and so I dont consider that further compensation is 
appropriate. I understand that Mr and Mrs D have an issue that Barclays internal documents 
refer to the £150 being paid. I can assure Mr and Mrs D that this didnt mislead the 
investigator or myself as there is no indication it was paid so we have proceeded on the 
basis it wasnt. I will leave it to Mr and Mrs D to request this sum from Barclays should they 
wish to accept it
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman