DRN-3427340
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit 
card and later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with Vanquis in 2015. In Mr Ms application, he said he was 
employed with an income of around £8,000 a year. Vanquis approved the application and 
gave Mr M a credit card with a limit of £1,000. In May 2011 Vanquis increased the credit limit 
to £1,500. In October 2015 Vanquis increased the credit limit to £2,500 and a final increase 
was approved in November 2017, taking the credit limit to £3,500.
In 2019 the credit card fell into arrears and was closed. Vanquis went on to report a default 
on Mr Ms credit file. 
Last year, Mr M complained that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly. Vanquis didnt agree it had 
lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. An investigator at this service looked 
at Mr Ms complaint. They said we couldnt consider Mr Ms complaint about the original 
application and credit limit increase in May 2011 because of the time limits noted in our 
rules. The investigator didnt agree Vanquis had lent irresponsibly in relation to the credit 
limit increases in October 2015 and November 2017 and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M asked to appeal and his case was passed to me. I recently issued a decision 
confirming the investigators view that this service cant consider Mr Ms complaints about 
the original application in 2008 and credit limit increase that took place in May 2011. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, I recently issued a decision that confirmed the limits of this investigation 
and the credit limit increases we can consider. In this decision, Im looking at the credit limit 
increases that occurred in October 2015 and November 2017. 
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Vanquis had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. Vanquis says 
it looked at Mr Ms account history, information it held about him and credit file when 
deciding whether to increase his credit limit. 
Ive looked at the information Vanquis used on both occasions it increased Mr Ms credit 
limit. Mr M has sent us a copy of his credit file. Vanquis has set us evidence from its systems 
that shows information it found on his credit file along with statements going back to 2013. 
Looking at Mr Ms statements, I can see payments were made on time with no arrears. 
Vanquis says Mr Ms account history was well managed and I think thats fair. 
In addition, Vanquis continued to monitor Mr Ms credit file to see how much he owed and 
assess his outgoings. I can see the cost of servicing Mr Ms existing debts were taken into 
account when Vanquis considered whether to proceed. Mr Ms credit report shows there was 
no adverse credit or missed payments prior to either of the credit limit increases and I 
havent seen anything that wouldve told Vanquis Mr M was struggling financially at the time. 
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure 
the credit limit increases in October 2015 and November 2017 were sustainable for Mr M. I 
havent been persuaded that Vanquis lent irresponsibly. 
I can see Mr Ms account fell into arrears and was ultimately closed with a default recorded 
on his credit file. But, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Vanquis completed 
proportionate checks before offering Mr M an increased credit limit in October 2015 and 
November 2017. As I havent been persuaded that Vanquis lent irresponsibly, Im not telling 
it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman