DRN-3092423
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc didnt process his loan applications fairly.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr R applied to Santander for a loan under the Coronavirus Business 
Interruption Loan Scheme (CBIL). The bank declined the application as Mr R didnt meet its 
lending criteria. So Santander suggested Mr R apply for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) instead.
 
Mr R was unhappy about the banks decision to decline his CBIL application and made a 
complaint. Shortly after, he applied to Santander for a BBL of £50,000 declaring his income 
was £415,000. The bank declined Mr Rs application as it thought he was in a partnership 
with his wife based on the documents hed provided.
 
Mr R made a further complaint about the banks decision to decline the BBL application and 
provided the bank with a copy of his tax returns saying he was a sole trader. Mr R applied 
again, this time for a loan of £50,000 with a turnover of £210,000. But the application was 
declined as Santander said it couldnt see that level of turnover in the documents Mr R had 
supplied. 
Santander also responded to say it didnt uphold the complaints. The bank said it had 
declined Mr Rs application for a CBIL as his business had made a loss over the last few 
years and it wasnt satisfied, hed be able to meet the repayments. Santander accepted that 
Mr R was a sole trader - but said there wasnt sufficient evidence of the turnover required to 
support the requested loan of £50,000. So Santander said it would consider a new 
application from Mr R - but this would be based on the income declared on his tax return of 
around £17,000.
So Mr R applied to the bank for a BBL of £4,000, but he remained unhappy with the service 
hed received from the bank. He said Santander hadnt taken into consideration the extra 
evidence hed provided to demonstrate that his turnover was £210,000 and still thought he 
should have received a larger BBL. He also said his Relationship Manager (RM) hadnt 
replied to him as expected and had blocked his emails - so he made a further complaint to 
Santander.
 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said it hadnt seen any evidence the RM 
had blocked Mr Rs emails and overall the bank was satisfied with the level of service the 
RM had provided. Santander also apologised that it couldnt provide the higher amount of 
borrowing Mr R wanted. Mr R remained unhappy and asked this service to look into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought Santander 
had declined the first two BBL applications fairly as they didnt match the evidence of 
turnover Mr R had provided. He acknowledged Mr R said his turnover would be higher for 
the tax year ending 2019/20 but this wasnt the information required on the application. The 
eligibility criteria the bank used was for 2018/19  which it was entitled to do. The 
investigator also said he hadnt seen any evidence showing Santander had blocked Mr Rs 
emails.
  
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view. He said in summary:
The BBL Scheme said a borrower could apply for 25% of their turnover up to £50,000 
 not that this must be calculated using the 2019 calendar year;
The turnover he declared was forward looking and would have been based on his tax 
filings submitted in December 2020;
He wanted proof from the British Business Bank (BBB) website showing where 
Santander had been given agreement to use the tax year ending 2018/19; and
He didnt agree with Santanders explanation about why his email bounced back if it 
wasnt blocked.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The CBIL application 
Mr R feels Santander has treated him unfairly by declining his CBIL application because he 
didnt have a business account and his business had made a loss. Although the bank may 
have initially declined Mr Rs application because he didnt have a business account, I dont 
think Mr R was disadvantaged by this initial decision. I say this because Ive seen that 
Santander reassessed his application and declined it based on the loan serviceability.
I acknowledge Mr R thinks its common for losses to be reported and carried forward, and 
that he has additional resources. However, the CBIL Scheme says that for a loan to be 
granted, a borrower must have a borrowing proposal which the lender would consider viable 
were it not for the current pandemic. 
In this case, Mr Rs accounts showed consecutive losses in the two years preceding his 
application. Although Mr R has said he had other resources to repay the CBIL, these werent 
submitted as part of the application and they werent related to the business so wouldnt 
have improved the viability. Santander wasnt satisfied Mr R could cover the repayment 
costs of the loan, and I think its decision to decline the application on this basis was 
reasonable and made in line with the Scheme rules.  
The BBL application
Although the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had 
some discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing 
customers. Under the Scheme there were specific criteria that a business needed to meet 
before they could apply for a Bounce Back Loan  which included carrying on business on 1 
March 2020 and maximum permitted borrowing from between £2,000 and 25% of their 
turnover to a maximum of £50,000.  
The British Business Bank website explains that the checks a borrower will be subject to 
when applying for a loan from any lender included - customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Customer checks. Under the Scheme rules, applications are self-declared, 
so the lender is able to rely on the information provided by the applicant within their 
application. 
However, in this case, Mr R had already given Santander information about his income to 
show he wasnt in partnership - as the bank first thought - so Santander already had 
documentation which proved Mr Rs income wasnt what hed first declared. Given that the 
amount of money Mr R could borrow under the Scheme was dependant on his business 
turnover, it was really important the turnover figure he declared was accurate - as Mr R may 
not have been eligible for the amount hed borrowed. 
So I think it was reasonable for Santander to decline Mr Rs applications when hed declared 
his income to be higher than it was based on the evidence hed already provided. Given that 
Ive also seen that the bank gave Mr R a BBL for £4,000, I dont think Santander treated 
Mr R unfairly - as this was the loan he was eligible for based on the turnover evidence hed 
already provided. 
Mr R has raised several points about why he believes Santander has treated him unfairly. I 
dont intend to respond to each individual point - but rather address the crux of the matter 
here, which is that he thinks the bank hasnt acted in line with the Scheme rules and what is 
explained by the Scheme administrator  the British Business Bank  on its website. 
Mr R doesnt agree that Santander was allowed to use a turnover figure for the tax year 
2018/19 when assessing his eligibility. He says he should have been able to use projected 
figures for either the calendar year 2019 or the tax year 2019/20. But I dont agree. Although 
the BBB website provided publicly available information, this was just a summary of the 
more detailed rules lenders should follow.   
Where an applicant didnt hold an existing business account with the lender, the rules of the 
Scheme instructed lenders to verify their eligibility by obtaining a copy of their 2018-2019 tax 
return. I acknowledge Mr R has said that projected figures were allowed, however these 
could only be used in limited circumstances  which didnt apply here. Therefore, as Mr R 
didnt have a business account with Santander, and his business had been established 
before 1 January 2019 he was asked to provide his 2018/2019 tax return  as per the 
Scheme rules. 
I acknowledge Mr R said he was expecting a higher turnover from the sale of some land so 
his return for 2019/20 would have been much higher. But Santander has to follow the 
Scheme rules and has no discretion to operate outside of them. So I dont think the bank 
treated Mr R unfairly by using the turnover evidence Mr R had provided for the 2018/19 tax 
year. 
Customer service and email blocking 
I recognise Mr R thinks Santander should have responded to him more quickly when he 
asked for updates. Ive looked at the information both parties have provided, and I can see 
the bank has accepted the occasion it could have contacted him more quickly. Ive also seen 
that there was minimal impact to Mr R as his BBL application was being processed and this 
delay didnt have any bearing on the application. So from the evidence available, I dont think 
Mr R was caused inconvenience and Ive seen the bank has apologised. So I think 
Santander has done enough to put things right here. 
Mr R also believes the bank blocked his emails, causing them to be undelivered. However, 
Santander has said its staff dont have the option to do this on its system. I acknowledge it 
must have been frustrating for Mr R to attempt to contact the bank and for his email not to be received, but I havent seen any indication this was caused by Santander. Mr R has provided 
an email from his internet supplier which says when emails are undelivered in this way, this 
usually means the email address has been blocked by privacy or spam settings by the 
account owner or domain. 
However, this doesnt say this would definitely be the cause of the returned email. Santander 
have also explained that any emails are passed through a central server before any member 
of staff would receive it. And generally an email would only be returned if there was a risk 
identified from the email or it had an unusual encryption. So I cant reasonably say 
Santander undertook an action which caused some of Mr Rs emails to be returned. 
Im also not persuaded the RM blocked Mr Rs emails as he acknowledged emails both 
before and after Mr R received the undelivered message. I think its unlikely that if this action 
was undertaken, it would have been for such a limited period of time. I can see Mr R 
received the returned message and dont dispute thats the case. But based on what Ive 
seen, I think its more likely this was just a system issue at that point in time. 
I recognise that Mr R feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen I think Santander has acted reasonably and in line with 
the Scheme rules. And Im satisfied the banks apology for the delay is enough to put things 
right. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman