DRN-2804378
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC downgraded their joint account against their 
wishes and with short notice.
What happened
Mr P and his wife, Mrs W, have a joint account with Lloyds. They currently live overseas, 
although they lived in the UK when they opened the account. In early June 2020 they 
received a letter from Lloyds, dated April, telling them that their Club Lloyds account would 
be downgraded to a Classic account, unless they phoned Lloyds and asked to opt out by 12 
June. Since they did not wish to incur the cost of an international call, they contacted Lloyds 
by email instead. The account was downgraded on 26 June.
Mr P and Mrs W complained about the downgrading of the account, contrary to their 
instructions, and also about how little time they were given in which to ask to keep their 
account the way it was. There was then a problem with how Lloyds logged their complaint, 
which resulted in Lloyds telling them they were unable to find their account. On 27 July 
Lloyds apologised for that error, and paid them £50 compensation. But once it had 
investigated their original complaint, it did not uphold it. It said it did not accept emails from 
overseas customers, and so in the absence of instructions by phone, it had correctly 
downgraded the account in line with its procedures. However, it agreed to reinstate the Club 
Lloyds account, which was done on 13 August.
Mr P and Mrs W were not satisfied with that response, and they brought this complaint to our 
Service. As well as complaining about the matters I have summarised above, they also 
complained that Lloyds two final response letters had contradicted each other, in that the 
first said their complaint had been upheld, and the second said it was declined. They also 
said that Lloyds had failed to reply to some of their emails, and seemed to be ignoring them.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said it had probably not been the banks 
fault that the letter had been delivered so late, but that in any case it had still been delivered 
in time to meet the 12 June deadline. He accepted the banks explanation of why the 
account had been downgraded, and he thought that the banks insistence on a phone call 
had been reasonable. He thought that £50 was fair compensation for the error in logging the 
complaint. He said that the failure to reply to emails appeared to be a complaint about 
another account (Mrs W having been acting as the executor for her later father), and so he 
said that would have to be dealt with separately to this complaint.
Mr P did not accept that opinion. He said that not only would an international call have been 
too expensive, but also there was poor reception where they live. He is partially deaf, and his 
wife was busing caring for her dying father, so a phone call would not have been practical in 
any case. He said it even if wasnt the banks fault that the letter had been delayed, it wasnt 
his or his wifes fault either. He asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I dont think that it was unreasonable of Lloyds to insist on a phone call to confirm that its 
overseas customers still required their Club Lloyds account. Each bank has a large margin 
of discretion to decide how to verify its customers identities when taking their instructions, 
and it is entitled to treat overseas customers differently to those still resident in the UK. It is 
therefore sometimes and unavoidable consequence that overseas customers wont be able 
to do everything they were able to before they moved abroad. There is nothing in Lloyds 
contact notes to show that it was aware of Mr Ps partial deafness, or that it knew that Mrs W 
was caring for her father full time. So it follows that I cannot say that Lloyds was obliged to 
accept instructions by email.
I certainly agree that it was not Mr Ps or Mrs Ws fault that they did not receive the letter 
until June, but nor can I be satisfied that it was the banks fault either. I accept that the delay 
cannot be attributed entirely to the fact that they lived overseas, since it took longer to arrive 
than usual. But that does not mean that I can uphold a complaint about the delay, since 
I cannot say that it was the result of a banking error. It may have been the fault of a third 
party along the way.
For the above reasons, I am satisfied that the account was downgraded correctly.
The account was restored to its original status in August. Perhaps that could have been 
done earlier, if it had not been for the error in logging the original complaint, which appears 
to have slowed down the banks response. But I cant see that the temporary change in 
status (for less time than two months) caused any financial loss, or any inconvenience in and 
of itself (not counting the inconvenience of having to ask Lloyds to change it back again, for 
which I do not hold Lloyds responsible). So I do not think that this matter is worth additional 
compensation, and I am satisfied that £50 is fair compensation for the matter to which it 
relates.
I do not agree that the final response letters contradict each other, because they dealt with 
different matters. The first was about the mishandling of the complaint, which was not logged 
correctly, and resulted in some delay. That is what the £50 was for. The second letter was 
about the substantive complaint  the downgrading of the account, and the short notice  
which Lloyds did not accept it was responsible for. I agree.
Mr P has also said that Lloyds did not tell him that the account had been restored to its 
original status in August. I must remind him that the second final response letter, dated 13 
August, mentioned it, and said that new bank cards would be sent to him and to his wife.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Richard WoodOmbudsman