DRN-3823437
The complaint
Mr G complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd wont release funds from his account.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr G contacted eBay about releasing funds from his eBay account. 
eBay told Mr G that he would need to add banking information and verify his account details 
in order for it to make the payment.
Mr G found that in order to add his bank account details, he had to confirm that he 
authorised eBay to deduct amounts from his bank account by direct debit. Mr G was 
concerned that this would allow eBay to take money from his account without his permission. 
He says he was willing to add his debit card for eBay to transfer his funds, but eBay said it 
wasnt possible.
Mr G raised a complaint with eBay but he was dissatisfied with its response, so he asked our 
service to consider the matter. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She was satisfied eBay was acting fairly and in line with its terms of use, which required     
Mr G to complete its verification process for his funds to be released.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators outcome. He remained concerned about giving eBay 
direct access to his money. He also expressed concerns about eBays terms and conditions 
being unclear and putting hidden fees in the small print. So, his complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr G I have considered all his points, even if Ive not addressed each of 
them individually. Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of his 
complaint.
eBay says it isnt able to send funds to Mr G without him adding a bank account and allowing 
direct debit functionality. It says this is because it has to have a way of charging funds in 
certain situations or refunds needing to be made.
I appreciate Mr G would like eBay to release funds to him by a different method. However, 
its not this services role to tell a business what policies or processes to put in place. Ive 
needed to consider if eBay has treated Mr G fairly and reasonably.
eBay says that its terms of use state that linking a bank account and allowing direct debits is 
part of one of the steps that must be completed in order to set up a managed payments 
account on eBay.
Under section 4 of eBays Payments Terms of Use (Seller Onboarding) it says:
To set up and use your eBay account for Managed Payments, you must:
Link a financial account, so you may receive settlements of proceeds from Managed 
Payments to this account (Linked Financial Account)If we cannot make direct 
debits from your Linked Financial Account for Owed Amounts (as defined in Section 
9), we require you to keep another payment method on file with us and we may 
withhold payouts to your Linked Financial Account until you have successfully 
provided us with such other payment method.
Under Section 9 (Collection of Fees and Other Amounts You Owe) it says:
You authorize us to collect from you any amounts you owe us or our Affiliates and goes 
on to list what might be typically included under Owed Amounts such as fees, refunds etc.
Section 9 also sets out how the collection of Owed Amounts may be carried out, which 
includes by Recouping from your Linked Financial Account (and if required, by issuing a 
direct debit mandate or other similar authorization).
eBay has provided screenshots to show that Mr G signed up for its managed payments 
service in August 2022. In order to do this, Mr G needed to sign up to eBays payments 
terms of use. So, Im satisfied that Mr G agreed to allow eBay to collect amounts he owed 
from his bank account. 
Mr G says eBay didnt provide clear information about this. However, eBay has provided 
screenshots to show Mr Gs online journey when he signed up to its managed payments 
service. One of the steps was to add a bank account and this says: Simply enter your 
checking account details and when your items sell well send you payouts to that account. 
We may also debit the account for amounts you owe eBay. There was an option to skip 
until an item sells, which is what Mr G appears to have done at the time. 
So, although Mr G wasnt required to add his bank account details at the time of signing up 
to eBays managed payments service, Im satisfied that eBay made it clear that he would 
need to do so before funds from a sale could be released to him. Im also satisfied that eBay 
made it clear that adding his bank account would also give eBay the ability to debit his 
account for amounts Mr G might owe.
Mr G has questioned why eBay would need access to someones account if they had 
already deducted all the fees from the sale. Hes expressed concerns that eBay might take 
funds its not entitled to through hidden fees. 
However, eBays terms only allow it to take amounts that are owed to it. And eBay says the 
direct debit function is only used in certain situations.
eBays terms say We generally deduct Owed Amounts from your current or future 
disbursements we process on your behalf If your disbursements awaiting payout or funds 
held are not sufficient to cover these amounts, we will charge your Linked Financial Account 
or another payment method on file.
So, Im not persuaded that eBays intention is to take funds that its not entitled to. I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr G. However, Im satisfied that eBay has acted 
fairly and reasonably, in line with its terms of use.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman