DRN-3042996
The complaint
Mr B has complained through his representative about the shares he bought through 
Templeton Securities Limited (an appointed representative of Alexander David Securities 
Limited). The representative said, in summary;
that Templeton Securities failed to provide advice about the shares. Its said they 
were high risk and unsuitable for Mr B;
the shares werent a permissible investment within the SIPP;
Templeton Securities shouldnt have accepted Mr Bs instructions to buy them. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 July 2021. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. I have copied the relevant sections from that provisional 
decision below, and it forms part of this final decision.
background
Mr B says he was cold called in late 2013 and offered a review of his pension arrangements. He was 
referred to a firm which I will call Firm A. And then subsequently referred to another firm I will call Firm 
B. Both of these firms were unregulated.
Mr B subsequently transferred four separate pensions to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension) in 
February 2014. Mr B cant recall whether it was Firm A or Firm B who recommended the SIPP 
provider. The total value transferred was approximately £28,000. My understanding is that Templeton 
Securities Limited wasnt involved in the advice given to Mr B to switch his pensions to the SIPP.
Mr B was then persuaded by Firm B to open an account with Templeton Securities. He completed an 
application form on 13 May 2014 for a Private Client Portfolio account. The application form recorded 
that Mr B was a relatively inexperienced investor, and his preferred level of risk was medium.  The 
account was opened on 29 May 2014 and a sum of £26,926 was transferred from the SIPP bank 
account into it on 2 June 2014.
When Mr B opened the account he completed a Private Client Portfolio Agreement and Application 
Booklet. These said, amongst other things:
What to expect as a client of Templeton Securities 
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an independent 
stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client investment service with 
clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will need to 
know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which will enable us to 
advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore imperative that you fully 
complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are unable to affect a suitable portfolio 
or offer an appropriate service.
We are required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 {"FSMA") to provide you with 
suitable investment advice and services, based on the information you provide to us about your 
circumstances. By completing this form in its entirety, you will enable us to fully comply with the 
requirements of this Act.
Under the section Important Financial Information it said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the services we 
provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and liabilities, and income and 
expenditure. We are required to take this into account when assessing the suitability of our 
investment management service we provide... 
Please enter details of your total assets and liabilities (Please enter amounts to the nearest 
thousand pounds)
Under a list of asset types including Property, Cash, Investment ISAs, Equity Investments and 
Investment Bonds, only £26,000 was listed under Pension Plans. Mr Bs net worth was recorded as 
£26,000.  Mr Bs income was noted as £12,600 a year, and his expenditure £12,000. 
Under Investment Risk and Objectives it said:
Preferred Level of Portfolio Risk
Please indicate below your preferred level of portfolio risk as part of your overall investment strategy. 
A tick was placed in the medium category. 
The section headed Investment Experience asked what types of investment Mr B had traded 
previously and the box Advisory Broking was ticked. When asked to describe his level of experience 
for various asset classes, the novice category (less than 1 year) was ticked for equities, fixed interest 
and alternative assets. And the intermediate (1-5 years) for Funds.
When asked if copy information should be sent to his professional intermediary including his 
Independent Financial Adviser, the section for details was left blank.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of investments for me in 
accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have received and which I agree to.
The relevant sections of the General Terms and Conditions of Business included:
2. Introduction
2.1 This document contains details of the investment advisory and execution only services which 
Templeton Securities (TEMPLETON) shall provide you with our services in accordance with the 
Client Application Form, and it sets out the obligations and rights applying between us and you. 
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations. The term 
Applicable Regulations means: 
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by the FCA 
(FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority; 
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and 
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time. 
This means that: 
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable Regulations, the 
latter will prevail; 
3. The services we will provide 3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with sufficient 
information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial circumstances and 
the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though you have previously supplied us 
with information, we may reasonably believe that you are not expecting us to advise you about the 
merits of a particular transaction in a non-complex financial instrument, then we will not make any 
personal or product investment recommendations. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms & 
Conditions should be treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any product. 
We will action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are only able to act on 
the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what instructions you should give 
us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage our services as 
an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a continuing basis for advising you on 
the composition of your portfolio
3.2 If we have agreed to provide you with an advisory service, we accept responsibility for advising 
you as to the merits of any particular investment based on the information supplied by you in the 
TEMPLETON Application Form pertaining to your individual circumstances, requirements and 
objectives. We may provide you with investment advice on your request. Information supplied by you, 
via the TEMPLETON Application Form, should be updated as necessary before we give you advice 
on a particular transaction. If you do not inform us of any investment or types of investments, which 
you do not wish us to recommend or purchase for you, we may recommend to you any investments 
provided that we have reasonable grounds for believing that each investment product we do 
recommend is suitable and appropriate for you, in accordance with FCA rules. We do not undertake 
discretionary management of your investments, any investment advice we give you is provided on the 
understanding that we do not accept responsibility on a continuing basis for advising on the 
composition of your portfolio.
3.7 We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or instigate certain 
conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
4.9 Specific client instructions 
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will execute the 
order in accordance with those specific instructions.
5. Suitability 
5.1 In providing a managed portfolio service or giving investment advice to you, we are required by 
the FCA to obtain the necessary information from you regarding your knowledge and experience in 
the investment field relevant to the specific type of investment or service provided to you, your 
financial situation and your investment objectives in order to assess the suitability of our advice and of 
the transactions to be entered into by us on your behalf. In particular, we must obtain from you such 
information as is necessary for us to understand the essential facts about you and have a reasonable 
basis for believing, giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the 
specific transactions to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing: 
(a) meets your investment objectives; 
(b) is such that you are able to financially bear any related investment risks consistent with your 
investment objectives; and 
(c) is such that you have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks 
involved in the transaction or in the management of your portfolio.
6. Appropriateness 
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject to an 
obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the contemplated product or 
service for you by determining whether you have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in relation to the specific type of product or service offered or 
demanded. In such circumstances, where on the basis of information received we consider that the 
contemplated product or service is not appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that 
effect. 
6.4 Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular transaction if we 
reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you are not expecting such 
advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the transaction relates to non-complex 
financial instruments such as shares, bonds and UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will 
execute your order on that basis and we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable 
or appropriate for you. Please note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the 
relevant FCA Rules requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
The Terms definitions provided Execution-Only means that we act on your instructions and offer no 
advice as to whether such an investment is suitable for you.
Templeton sent a letter to Mr B dated 29 May 2014. Amongst other things it said:
"We note your interest in high risk products, investments in smaller companies, in particular 'Penny 
Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small unquoted companies involve a high 
risk that all or part of your investment may be lost.
You may also have difficulty in selling these shares at a reasonable price and in some circumstances 
you may not be able to sell at any price. There can be a big difference between the buying and selling 
price and if they have to be sold immediately, you may get back much less than you paid for them. 
On 4 June 2014 Mr B e-mailed Templeton Securities. The e-mail included:
I wish to invest £13,463.00 in Eligere investments pic (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 55 pence limit 
for T3 settlement
I wish to invest £13,463.00 in Emmit pic (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.95 limit for T1 
settlement.
Please advise me via e-mail when this has been transacted.
Templeton bought these shares investing £13,200 in Eligere and £13,065 in Emmit (after commission 
and costs).  My understanding is that the instruction was prompted by Firm B who provided Mr B with 
the wording for it.
Templeton wrote to Mr B on 14 September 2014. The letter was sent to Mr Bs old address and he 
says he didnt receive it. But the letter said:
Re: Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type of stocks 
and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to invest in such high 
risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only' but wish to advise that in the 
provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the suitability of the service 
provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not benefit from the corresponding 
protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in EMMIT on 31 October 2014. It said it 
had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer money from their work 
pension schemes into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) and use that money to buy shares in 
Emmit plc. It said some investors were being offered cash back on their investments in Emmit plc of 
up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by a third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors 
appeared to have invested 100% of their pension assets into Emmit plc shares and could suffer 
significant financial loss if they have done this without fully understanding what they were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmitt plc and Eligere Investments plc was suspended in May and June 2015 
respectively. Mr B complained to Templeton Securities through his representative on 23 November 2017. It said, in 
summary, that Templeton Securities had been instructed to act in an advisory capacity for Mr B, but 
had failed to offer direct advice about the investment. Mr B had indicated he had a medium risk 
profile; the shares were high risk, yet Templeton Securities had failed to ensure the investments were 
appropriate. It said Templeton Securities had received a highly technically worded e-mail and given 
the language used it should have taken reasonable steps to confirm that Mr B understood the 
instruction. It also said the investments werent permitted in the SIPP and Templeton Securities 
should have advised Mr B that this was the case.
Templeton Securities didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In brief, it said that Mr B provided an execution 
only instruction to buy the shares, and therefore Templeton Securities didnt have any responsibility to 
provide advice on their suitability as per the accounts terms and conditions. It said it didnt think the 
instruction was technically worded. And the shares were permitted within the SIPP.
Mr Bs representative referred the complaint to us. One of our adjudicators considered the complaint 
and recommended that it should be upheld. She said, in brief, that she thought Templeton Securities 
had a duty of care to Mr B, especially as it had been appointed in an advisory capacity. She said that 
although Mr B did provide a direct instruction to buy the shares Templeton Securities knew he was an 
inexperienced investor. So it should have told him the shares were unlikely to be suitable for him. 
Templeton Securities didnt agree. In summary it said that it had acted in accordance with the 
accounts terms and conditions as well as regulatory requirements when it accepted the instruction. 
The fact that the account was established as an advisory account didnt mean that the firm undertook 
a continuing duty to advise. The terms provided for it to act on execution only instructions, and it 
wasnt bound to consider the suitability of the shares. It said it was commonplace in the industry for 
brokers to take execution only instructions from clients even if one of the services the broker agreed 
to provide was investment advice. It said under the terms of the agreement with the SIPP provider it 
had the authority to accept an instruction direct from Mr B. Templeton Securities also said it had never 
had any agreements with either Firm A or Firm B.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one
or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1R). 
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and include 
advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments (article 25 RAO). So I 
can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to provide advice. Or about 
arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only sale.
Ive therefore read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When doing that, 
Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook to take into account the: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
When evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other 
words, means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.Mr Bs representative has said that Templeton Securities shouldnt have accepted the instruction from 
Mr B to buy the shares for a number of reasons. In particular:
The representative said Mr B was not an authorised signatory and Templeton Securities 
hadnt got authority to accept an instruction directly from him.
As the adjudicator explained, the Third-Party Investment Agreement dated 16 May 2014 between 
Templeton and the SIPP provider allowed it to accept instructions direct from the member  Mr B. The 
SIPP provider has confirmed that the agreement set out the terms between it and Templeton and 
related to Mr Bs scheme. So Im satisfied it did have authority to accept the instruction. 
The representative said the shares werent on the list of permitted investments for the SIPP
The SIPP Permitted Investment document listed permissible investments. This included stocks and 
shares if they are listed or dealt on a recognised stock exchange. These can only be purchased 
and held by a UK based Stockbroker/Custody & Service Provider that is regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA).
A recognised stock exchange for these purposes is either:
The London Stock Exchange or the Alternative Investment Market (AIM);
Or
An overseas exchange recognised by HM Revenue and Customs;
Or
An exchange recognised by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) as either a
recognised investment exchange or a recognised overseas investment exchange
or a designated investment exchange or a regulated market in the European
Economic Area (EEA).
The adjudicator noted that Emmit Plc was listed on the AIM market which was a recognised stock 
exchange. So it was a permitted investment. 
Templeton Securities said Eligere was listed on the GXG Markets, which at the time in question was a 
regulated listed exchange operating under licence by the Danish Supervisory Authority. And so it was 
also a permitted investment
My understanding is that GXG Markets was a recognised stock exchange so was consistent with the 
requirements in the Permitted Investments document. And although the SIPP provider initially raised 
doubts about the eligibility of Eligere for the SIPP, after further investigation it has confirmed to us that 
it considers Eligere was a permitted investment at the time it was bought.
So I dont think Templeton should have refused to act on Mr Bs instruction to buy the shares for the 
two reasons above.
The representative has also complained that Templeton Securities was acting in an advisory capacity 
and not execution only. It said it had failed to advise on the suitability of the shares.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private Client Portfolio 
account was opened clearly described it as providing an advisory service. 
However, whilst the account was advisory, the terms did also provide for Templeton to accept 
execution only instructions in some circumstances.
Templeton Securities has referred to Clause 6.4. Clause 6.4 came under the heading 
Appropriateness. Clause 6.1 said we may be subject to an obligation under Applicable Regulations 
to assess the appropriateness of the contemplated product or service. I think this is reference to the 
requirements under COBS 10 (the regulators Conduct of Business Rules). My understanding is the 
shares bought here werent subject to COBS 10. But Clause 6.4 went onto say:Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular transaction if 
we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you are not expecting 
such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the transaction relates to non-
complex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and UCITS, we will inform you at the time that 
we will execute your order on that basis and we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is 
suitable or appropriate for you.
And Clause 3.1 provided:
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with sufficient 
information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial circumstances and 
the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though you have previously supplied 
us with information, we may reasonably believe that you are not expecting us to advise you 
about the merits of a particular transaction in a non-complex financial instrument, then we 
will not make any personal or product investment recommendations. [My emphasis].
The documentation that has been provided doesnt show that Mr B was designated as an execution-
only client. However Clause 3.1 and 6.4 provided an alternative basis for carrying out execution only 
services as highlighted. And Clauses 3.1 and 4.9 went onto say:
You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage our services as an 
execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a continuing basis for advising you on 
the composition of your portfolio
4.9 Specific client instructions 
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will execute the 
order in accordance with those specific instructions..  
Given the particular wording of the 4 June 2014 e-mail, I think Templeton Securities was entitled to 
reasonably believe that Mr B wasnt expecting advice about the merits of the transaction. It was an 
order to buy particular shares and at a particular price, on a specific settlement basis. I dont think 
there was anything in the e-mail that suggests that Mr B was asking for advice about the merits of the 
purchases or otherwise suggests that Mr B was expecting Templeton to give him advice. I think this is 
consistent with the transaction been driven by Firm B. Templeton wasnt therefore accepting 
responsibility for the investment decision executed on an execution only basis as per Clause 3.1 And 
it carried out the instruction as per Clause 4.9.
Mr Bs representative has said that as Templeton Securities had received a highly technically worded 
e-mail the language used in it should have prompted it to take reasonable steps to confirm that Mr B 
understood the instruction. Templeton has said it didnt think the instruction was technically worded.  
On the one hand, I think theres little doubt that the language used was technical. T1 and T3 
settlement isnt everyday language, and I think only the experienced would use that term and know 
its meaning.
But on the other, I dont think it follows that Templeton Securities had an obligation to check Mr Bs 
understanding of it (when considering the e-mail in isolation).  On the face of it, it appeared to be a 
valid instruction, and I dont think Templeton Securities had an obligation to look behind it purely 
because of the technical language used.
Clause 6.4 of the terms said that Templeton Securities would write to Mr B where it executed a 
transaction in non-complex financial instruments to inform him it had placed the order on that basis. 
Templeton didnt do this at the time. 
Templeton did write to Mr B on 14 September 2014 (albeit to Mr Bs old address and he says he didnt 
receive it). The letter was headed Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit and went onto say 
Mr B should consider whether or not he felt it was appropriate to invest in such high-risk investments.So clearly Templeton Securities thought it should write to Mr B about the appropriateness of the 
Emmitt shares, albeit a few months after the transaction had been completed. 
Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. We have received 
a number of complaints against Templeton Securities representing Alexander David, about very 
similar transactions that all happened at around the same time.
Its apparent that Templeton Securities received a number of requests to open this type of advisory 
account with it, all within a relatively short period. And very shortly after the accounts were opened e-
mailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to Templeton Securities asking to invest in 
these same two shares (and in some cases one other share).
On the day that Templeton Securities received Mr Bs e-mail (4 June 2014), it received another six e-
mails from different investors all with near identical wording. It had also received six of these e-mails 
on 21 May 2014. And another three on 22 May 2014. To date we have received 21 complaints. In 19 
the emails were sent to the same person at Templeton Securities (who I understand held the CF30 
function with Alexander David Securities at that time). Templeton Securities/Alexander David should 
have copies of these e-mails on their files. However details (to the degree that it is appropriate to 
provide) of these e-mails can be requested from the investigator if required.
We currently havent got copies of the e-mails on the other two cases. However my understanding is 
that Firm B provided the wording for the e-mails. I think its likely further e-mails were sent to the same 
person at Templeton Securities on the other accounts. And these are only the cases where investors 
have complained and the matter has been referred to us. I think its likely, on balance, that there are 
other instances which I am not aware of. 
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty wasnt 
unqualified. 
Firstly, it had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order or instruction from Mr B as 
provided in Clause 3.7 of the Terms and Conditions. Second, it had an obligation to comply with the 
FCAs rules.
As I have set out above, the accounts Terms and Conditions included:
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations. The term 
Applicable Regulations means: 
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by the FCA 
(FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority; 
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and 
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time. 
This means that: 
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable Regulations, the 
latter will prevail.
So the duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the Terms and Conditions as an 
overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those Terms. 
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through application of its 
Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton Securities was providing regulated 
financial services and was bound by these Principles and other Rules. This is consistent with the 
accounts terms and conditions.
In British Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin), 
Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules are 
added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not supplant them and 
cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the 
Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach a view 
on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair and reasonable 
and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find 
it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high-level principles 
which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is 
fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles which I think are relevant to 
this complaint. In my view they are Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether in conducting this business 
Templeton Securities complied with these Principles. Ive considered the matter in the context of the 
wider circumstances as I have described in considering Templeton Securities obligations; that 
Templeton was receiving a number of e-mails sent to the same person; there was a pattern of 
remarkably similar worded execution only instructions from different clients with SIPP accounts it was 
being asked to process, in the same niche shares, on non-mainstream markets, and within a 
reasonably short period of time. 
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker, acting reasonably, ought to have been alerted that 
something unusual and concerning might be going on. In my view, the circumstances ought to have 
been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing of the transaction, and 
take a closer look behind it.
If it had done so, it would have identified that the instructions were coming from ordinary retail 
customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time from opening 
were all sending execution only instructions to make their first investment;  
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same niche shares presenting 
significant risks; they werent the type of investments that you would normally expect to form 
the significant part of anyones pension provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche shares, suggesting 
these retail consumers may be being systematically advised by someone to buy these shares 
and on how to go about it.
And this was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a regulated firm 
giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions themselves so as to charge 
dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious malpractice if an unauthorised person 
was giving investment advice in breach of s19 of The Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000The number of grouped instructions to purchase two niche shares, specifying particular days 
for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly unconnected retail 
customers.  Including settlement details in their instructions was not only unusual but served 
no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized person 
was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares of one or two 
small, obscure companies:  an FCA-authorised firm would have regulatory obligations not to 
give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikely to find such shares a suitable 
pension investment for many (if any) of their clients, let alone a string of clients, and all at 
around the same time. 
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr Bs instructions ought reasonably to have 
caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction. If it had done so, and looked at 
the information it already had available through the account opening documentation, it would have 
seen that Mr B had said he had a modest income; no savings or investments of note, and the £26,000 
invested in the SIPP was his entire net worth. Hed said his preferred level of risk was medium, and 
experience wise he was a novice investor in equities. 
His instructions to invest his entire net wealth into two niche shares, presenting significant risks, was 
clearly at odds with his other financial provision, inconsistent with him being a novice investor in 
equities, with a likely limited understanding of the investments, and preferring a medium level of risk. 
No details had been provided when in the section that asked if copy information should be sent to Mr 
Bs professional intermediary such as his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), suggesting an IFA 
wasnt the source of the instructions.
Given these inconsistencies, I think Templeton Securities should have recognised that the 
investments were clearly unsuitable for Mr B. And that Bs placing of the manifestly unsuitable order 
wasnt a result of some idiosyncrasy of Mr B himself, because so many others were giving virtually 
identical instructions in similar circumstances.  There was plainly likely to be a third party behind all 
the instructions.
So in this context, is it reasonable to think that Templeton Securities should have discovered that the 
source of the numerous and similarly worded instructions to buy the niche shares came from an 
unregulated source - Firm B?
Templeton Securities has said neither of Firm A or Firm B were known to it. And it never had any 
discussions or agreements with either of them.  It said it had no knowledge of Firm B, and it had no 
arrangement of any kind for the introduction of business or otherwise. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence of any formal arrangement between Templeton Securities
and either of Firm A or Firm B. However there is a Form of Authority for Firm B that was signed by 
Mr B and dated 13 May 2014. Such a form was on the majority of the complaints that have been 
referred to the Ombudsman Service.  Mr Bs representative has said Templeton Securities provided it 
with a copy of this form showing it had received it from Firm B, and permitting Templeton Securities to 
discuss Mr Bs pensions with the Firm B. Templeton had this form on its file, and so must have known 
Firm B was somehow purporting to assist Mr B with the SIPP.
So again, I think there were clear warning signs in the existing information that Templeton Securities 
already had available to it. And on making further enquiries with Mr B and other clients directly, it 
would have become apparent that an unauthorised person was advising clients to invest in these 
shares and helping them do so; giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments in 
breach of s19 of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. I dont think Mr B or the other clients 
would have reason not to tell Templeton Securities who had recommended the transactions and Firm 
Bs role if Templeton Securities had asked the question and pointed out the reasons for its concern.In this context, I think Templeton Securities should have identified that Mr B and other clients were 
probably being given regulated investment advice by a firm which lacked authorisation to give the 
advice, and that Firm B was probably breaching the general prohibition under s.19. On making 
reasonable enquiries it would have discovered that the advice in Mr Bs case was wholly inconsistent 
with his circumstances and manifestly unsuitable for his pension fund, and that executing his 
instructions was entirely contrary to his best interests. In these circumstances I think it should have 
exercised its discretion to decline to accept the instruction. 
So I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under Principles 2, 3 and 6. I think if it had 
conducted its business with skill care and diligence and took reasonable care to organise and control 
its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems, it should have 
identified the unusual pattern of execution only requests and intervened to take a closer look at the 
transaction.  If it had done so, in the circumstances as I have described, I think it should have spotted 
the clear risks to Mr B, and, acting in his best interests, exercised its discretion to decline to accept his 
instruction. 
Taking all the circumstances into account, I consider that Templeton Securities unreasonably 
accepted Mr Bs instruction when it had the opportunity and obligation to prevent the purchase of the 
shares.
Given that I think Templeton Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations, I need to decide 
whether its failings caused the losses that Mr B has claimed. So Ive considered what Mr B would 
likely have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out his instruction.
Mr B had already transferred his money to the SIPP and switched his money into the advisory 
account with Templeton Securities. So if Templeton Securities had declined to accept the instruction 
Mr B would have had practical difficulties if he still wanted to buy the shares; he would have needed 
to find another broker and get the SIPP provider to open another account to enable him to do so.
However Mr B has confirmed that he received a payment of £1,400 following the transaction, which 
he says came from Firm A. Mr B has said:
I wasn't promised anything at the outset but further down the line - and this was after the paperwork 
had been completed and I'd had my telephone conversation with [the SIPP provider] - that I received 
a phone call from [Firm A] saying that I was to receive a thank you payment for the business. I was 
aware at this stage that Templetons were the chosen broker but I wasn't aware which companies they 
were investing with.
Had there been any mention of a payment upfront I would have thought this very odd and, effectively, 
run a mile!
It was explained to me that the payment was because they could partly release some of my 
investment and the rest from some of their commission and, as it was some way down the line, I 
thought nothing of it and just thought this was standard practice. I vaguely remember this was the 
case.
I recognise the influence of Firms A and B who appeared to be driving the transactions in the 
background. And that a payment could have been motivation for Mr B to want to continue to buy the 
same shares, irrespective of the actions of Templeton Securities and therefore the practical difficulties 
of doing so. 
Its not entirely clear what part of the transaction the payment was for; the pension transfer, or the 
purchase of the shares. The FCA warning suggests it was more likely for the purchase of the Emmit 
shares. However Mr Bs recollections suggest the shares may not have actually been bought at the 
point he was alerted to the payment. This may be due to Firm A been aware of the intention the 
Emmitt shares would be bought and it told Mr B of the payment on that basis.
However I think even if the payment was dependent on the purchase of the shares, its likely Mr B 
would have lost trust in the unregulated firm(s) if Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm, had said it 
wouldnt process his instruction and its reasons for not doing so.  
Templeton Securities said it sent a letter to Mr B dated 29 May 2014. Amongst other things it said:"We note your interest in high risk products, investments in smaller companies, in particular 'Penny 
Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small unquoted companies, involve a high 
risk that all or part of your investment may be lost.
Mr B has said he doesnt recall receiving this letter. And Templeton has said this was an introductory 
letter and, regardless of whether the new client was low, medium or high risk, it was a generic 
paragraph that was included in the letter to give a general warning of trading in high risk shares. 
Ive currently seen no evidence that Mr B had expressed an interest in high risk products, 
investments in smaller companies, in particular 'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily 
realisable. And when he opened his account the documentation showed he had limited experience of 
investments, was a novice investor in equities and his preferred level of risk was medium, which 
isnt consistent with an interest in these high-risk shares. 
Given the significant risk of loss of the amount invested in the shares, just under £27,000, relative to 
the £1,400 payment; the practical difficulties of buying the shares if Templeton Securities had 
declined his instruction, and that Mr B had indicated his preferred level of risk was medium, I think, on 
balance, its unlikely that Mr B would have invested in Emmit and Eligere had it not been for 
Templeton Securities failings. 
Templeton Securities has asked whether Firm A and Firm B were being investigated and/or 
compensation sought from them. I have no powers to investigate complaints against the unregulated 
firms. Whilst I recognise their role in the transaction, it was Templeton Securities that was authorised 
to provide these regulated financial services and was bound by the obligations flowing from the Rules 
and Principles as I have outlined above. I think in the circumstances the onus was on Templeton 
Securities to have recognised the clear possibility of detriment to Mr B, and it should have prevented 
his losses for the reasons I have given. 
 
So I think Mr Bs losses flow from the failure of Templeton Securities to meet its regulatory obligations. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Templeton Securities to pay 
compensation to Mr B for the losses that resulted from those failings.
Applying sections 27 and 28 FSMA
For the sake of completeness, I have examined a separate basis upon which Templeton Securities 
may be responsible for the same losses.   So Ive considered the findings in the recent Court of 
Appeal case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. The court considered, amongst other 
things, the application of sections 27 and 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
In summary, s27 may apply where an authorised person makes an agreement with another person in 
the course of carrying out a regulated activity, which was a consequence of something said or done 
by an unregulated party acting in breach of the general prohibition (s19 of FSMA). S27 provides that 
an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable against the other party, and sets out what the other 
party can recover.
S28 of FSMA provides the court with the discretion to allow an agreement to which s.27 applies to be 
in any event enforced, if it considers it is just and equitable to do so.
The relevant parts of section 27 and 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 provide:
27 Agreements made through unauthorised persons.
 (1) This section applies to an agreement that 
(a) is made by an authorised person (the provider) in the course of carrying on a regulated activity,
(d) is made in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third party) in the 
course of
(i) a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition,
 
(1A) An agreement to which this section applies is unenforceable against the other party.(2) The other party is entitled to recover
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and
(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it.
(3)Agreement means an agreement
(a) made after this section comes into force; and
(b) the making or performance of which constitutes, or is part of, the regulated activity in question 
carried on by the provider.
28 Agreements made unenforceable by section 26 or 27 [general cases].
(1) This section applies to an agreement which is unenforceable because of section 26 or 27, other 
than an agreement entered into in the course of carrying on a credit-related regulated activity.
(2) The amount of compensation recoverable as a result of that section is
(a) the amount agreed by the parties; or
(b) on the application of either party, the amount determined by the court.
(3) If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it may allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
(4) In considering whether to allow the agreement to be enforced or (as the case may be) the money 
or property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained the court must
 (b) if the case arises as a result of section 27, have regard to the issue mentioned in subsection (6).
 (6) The issue is whether the provider knew that the third party was (in carrying on the regulated 
activity) contravening the general prohibition.
(7) If the person against whom the agreement is unenforceable
(a) elects not to perform the agreement, or
(b) as a result of this section, recovers money paid or other property transferred by him under the 
agreement, he must repay any money and return any other property received by him under the 
agreement.
(8) If property transferred under the agreement has passed to a third party, a reference in section 26 
or 27 or this section to that property is to be read as a reference to its value at the time of its transfer 
under the agreement.
The Court of Appeal decided that s27 of FSMA applied in the circumstances of that case. So it went 
onto consider s28 (3) - would it be just and equitable, in the circumstances of the case, to allow the 
agreement to be enforced/ the money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be 
retained. In deciding the matter s28 (4) required it to consider s28(6)  did the provider know the third 
party was contravening the general prohibition? It considered whether this meant actual knowledge of 
it or constructive knowledge. And decided it meant actual knowledge. It found that Carey didnt have 
actual knowledge. But then it went onto say:
Where a provider actually knew that the general prohibition was being breached, that must weigh 
heavily against use of the power conferred by section 28(3) of FSMA. If, on the other hand, a provider 
lacked such knowledge, it may still be appropriate to deny relief under section 28(3). And 
Likewise, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be 
granted. Amongst the factors that it may be proper to take into account is whether the provider should 
reasonably have known that the general prohibition was being contravened.
The court decided, on the particular facts of the case, not to exercise the discretion provided to it in 
s28. It didnt think it was just and equitable to grant Carey relief under section 28(3) of FSMA. It 
referred to the surrounding circumstances that it thought ought to have given reason for Carey to be 
concerned about the possibility of the unregulated firm arranging and advising on investments, even 
though it didnt in fact appreciate that the general prohibition was being contravened. 
The court made the following comments:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while consumers can to an 
extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, there is a need for regulation, among 
other things to safeguard consumers from their own folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens 
contentions that Mr Adams caused his own losses and misled Carey; and While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated sources, 
section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto the providers. 
Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and being required to return 
money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of 
third parties contraventions of the general prohibition.
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint in light of the Courts findings. For s27 of FSMA to apply, an 
agreement must have been made by an authorised person (here, Templeton) in consequence of a 
contravention of the general prohibition by a third party (here, Firm B).  
Given the facts of Mr Bs complaint and the surrounding circumstances as I have set out above, I think 
its most likely Firm B was breaching the general prohibition by arranging deals in and advising on 
investments  articles 25 and 53 of the Regulated Activities Order.  And I think the advice and Firm 
Bs actions in providing Mr B with his draft purchase instruction clearly played a crucial part in Mr B 
buying the shares. As I have explained, I think its hardly likely that so many ordinary retail clients 
would suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest in these two little known niche shares at around the 
same time. So I think a court would find that s27 applies, and Mr B can (subject to s.28), recover the 
monies he invested through his agreement with Templeton Securities when it accepted his 
instructions to purchase the shares and the investment losses he sustained.
Ive therefore gone onto consider s28. 
I think the overriding question is that set out in s.28(3); whether it would be just and equitable in the 
circumstances of the case to allow enforcement of the agreement or retention of the price paid.  The 
significance of s.28(4) and (6) is to require the court to have regard to whether the firm knew the 
third party was breaching the general prohibition. But as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting 
the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be granted. So whilst it 
has to be taken into account, it doesnt make that factor necessarily determinative.  
Equally, the question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general prohibition was 
being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account, but it is also not a 
determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some cases.  
I think in deciding s28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Mr Bs case, the court would, as it did in 
Adams v Options , look at all the circumstances in the round.
For the reasons I set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that should have 
reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were being systematically put in 
harms way; being given the same seemingly irresponsible advice by a common, unknown source. As 
I have said, I dont think Templeton Securities acted reasonably when ignoring those signals of 
potential wrongdoing. And I think whilst the court would take into account it may not have had actual 
knowledge of the breach, I think, looking at the circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably 
rather than ignore those clear warnings it would have discovered the breach on making reasonably 
enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow 
Templeton relief under s28. And therefore Mr B could recover his money under s27.
Given the above, I said that my provisional decision was that I considered it was fair and 
reasonable to uphold Mr Bs complaint on either of the bases I had outlined; that is, that 
Templeton Securities had failed to meet its regulatory obligation under the Principles. And 
that it was likely a court would decide that Mr B could recover his money under s27.  My 
provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Bs complaint. 
I went on to set out what I thought was fair compensation.
I then asked both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision.Alexander David Securities Limited responded on 16 August 2021 to say, in summary:
The Ombudsman Service had found in its favour on other complaints that had been 
referred to us with a very similar pattern of circumstances.
Although the Principles stood over the specific COBS Rules, they didnt replace 
them. PRIN was primarily guidance rather than rules.
The notion that sections 27 and 28 of FSMA applied were relevant only in the context 
of the facts of the Adams case (the court case I had referred to in my provisional 
decision - Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP). It wasnt for the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to apply judge written interpretations in particular cases to the 
facts of the matters before it.
In my provisional decision Id said that so I dont think Templeton should have 
refused to act on Mr Bs instruction to buy the shares for the two reasons above. 
However Id said later that taking all the circumstances into account, I consider 
that Templeton Securities unreasonably accepted Mr Bs instruction when it had the 
opportunity and obligation to prevent the purchase of the shares. It said these were 
two very conflicting statements.
Id said Templeton Securities had received a signed Form of Authority from Firm B 
permitting Templeton to discuss Mr Bs pensions with Firm B and so must have 
known Firm B was somehow purporting to assist Mr B with the SIPP. However as it 
had previously stated, it knew of no involvement of other persons or firms with Mr B, 
and the form of authority was received from the SIPP provider. It had assumed the 
firm mentioned on the form was linked with the SIPP provider.
Referring to my provisional decision, it said On page 5 it is stated that Templeton 
wrote to Mr B in September 2014 regarding the appropriateness of his investment, 
however this wasnt the reason it wrote to Mr B. It said the reason it wrote to Mr B 
and other customers was a review was carried out by the compliance officer because 
of the number of transactions in Emmit, and the rumours that were circulating around 
the market about people investing in it. It didnt become aware of any third-party 
involvement until it was officially announced by the FCA in October 2014.
The shares werent suspended until the summer of 2015, therefore Mr B had plenty 
of time to sell his holdings in both shares before they were suspended.
Id said that Templeton was receiving a number of e-mails sent to the same person, 
and a stockbroker acting reasonably ought to have been alerted that something 
unusual and concerning might be going on. However, these e-mails were being sent 
directly to the CEO (who I will refer to as Mr C), and he would have merely passed 
them on to any one of fifteen brokers that were working at the time.
Id said that Mr B had received £1,400 following the transaction; it asked if the date of 
payment into Mr Bs bank account had been confirmed, as it understood the 
inducements were in relation to the purchase of the shares. 
It had provided a copy of a phone call between Mr B and Mr C which confirmed that 
Mr B was happy with the purchase of shares.
The firm asked that, in light of the above, I review my provisional decision.Mr B didnt provide any further material evidence or arguments about the merits of the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
In respect of the further evidence and arguments made by the firm in the order set out 
above:
The other cases considered by our Service were resolved at an informal stage in our 
process by our investigators and on the facts as they understood them. They werent 
decided by a final decision issued by an Ombudsman. Ive made my decision on the 
basis of what I consider are all the relevant circumstances to decide what I consider 
be fair and reasonable given all the evidence and arguments available. 
I havent said that the Principles replace the COBS rules. In my provisional decision I 
explained that I was obliged to consider the Principles. And this was recognised by 
the courts in the case British Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority 
& Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin). As I said, Ouseley J said, amongst other things:
The Principles are best understood as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
That the Principles fulfil this function and must always be complied with has also been 
confirmed by Jacob J in Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] WHC 2878 (Admin) at paragraph 134.  The Principles are not just guidance 
but rules in their own right and it is established that firms must comply with them, and I have 
considered them in that context. As I also said in my provisional decision, the duty to comply 
with the FCAs rules was provided in the Terms and Conditions as an overriding duty that 
prevailed over anything to the contrary in those Terms. Ive therefore considered the FCAs 
Principles in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs 
Handbook to take into account, amongst other things, relevant law and regulations. 
In doing so Ive considered the facts of this case in light of the legal principles 
expounded by the Court of Appeal in the recent case Adams v Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP, which I think are relevant.
In my provisional decision Id said that I didnt think Templeton should have refused 
to act on Mr Bs instruction to buy the shares for the two reasons above. These 
were reasons put forward by Mr Bs representative. I later went onto outline different 
reasons why I considered that Templeton Securities unreasonably accepted Mr Bs 
instruction when it had the opportunity and obligation to prevent the purchase of the 
shares. I dont think there is an inconsistency in my statements.Templeton said the Form of Authority I had referred to had been received from the 
SIPP provider, and it had assumed the firm mentioned on the form was linked with 
the provider. For all the reasons I set out in detail in my provisional decision, I think 
irrespective of who had sent it the Form of Authority, there were enough warning 
signs to alert it that it was likely there was a third party involved, and Templeton 
Securities should have made further enquiries. Even if it initially thought the firm 
mentioned on the form  Firm B  was linked with the provider, on making those 
further enquiries I consider it would have discovered Firm B was behind the 
instructions to invest.
The letter to Mr B sent from Templeton Securities dated 14 September 2014 was 
headed Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit. The reason behind 
Templeton Securities sending that letter doesnt change what I consider is the fair 
and reasonable outcome of this complaint.
Although the shares werent suspended until the summer of 2015, Ive seen no 
persuasive reason why Mr B was obliged or ought reasonably to have sold the 
shares prior to their suspension. 
The firm has said the series of e-mails providing investment instructions had been 
sent directly to the CEO  Mr C, who then merely passed them on to one of fifteen 
brokers. The point I was making in my provisional decision was all the e-mails had 
been sent to the same person, who was acting for Templeton. As I said in my 
provisional decision, my understanding is Mr C held the CF30 function with 
Alexander David Securities at that time. I think Mr C was in a position to appreciate 
and understand the firms obligations to Mr B, and have been alerted that something 
unusual and concerning might be going on. I dont think it matters that he passed the 
instructions to others to execute, if that is what he did.  For the reasons I explained in 
the provisional decision, my view is the circumstances ought to have been a trigger 
for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing of the transaction, and 
take a closer look behind it. 
In my provisional decision I said it wasnt entirely clear which part of the transaction 
the payment of £1,400 was for. However even if the payment was dependent on the 
purchase of the shares, it was likely Mr B would have lost trust in the unregulated 
firm(s) if Templeton Securities, acting for a regulated firm, had said it wouldnt 
process his instruction and its reasons for not doing so. I dont think the exact date of 
the payment changes that finding. So I dont consider I need to determine the actual 
payment date to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I dont agree with the firms view that Mr B was saying in the phone call it has 
referred to that he was happy with the shares. Mr B said he had lost the £26,000 he 
had invested, explained how this had negatively affected him and said he wasnt 
feeling happy about it. 
Putting things right
 
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if Templeton Securities had not agreed to purchase 
the shares for Mr Bs account. If it had done so I think Mr B, having already completed the switch of his pension to the 
SIPP, would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have 
done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr B's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?
To compensate Mr B fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr B's pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities 
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension 
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
I think Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age. So the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.investmentBenchmarkfrom
(start date)           to
(end date)additional 
interest
The amounts 
invested in 
Eligere 
(£13,431) and 
Emmit 
(£13,294)  
including 
charges, less 
a deduction 
of £1,400  
divided 
equally - so 
£700 from 
each.FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;The date 
of 
purchase 
of each  
share
Eligere  
4 June 
2014
Emmit  
5 June 
2014Date of this 
final 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of this final decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Bs 
acceptance of
this decision
The deduction of £1,400 reflects the payment that was made to Mr B and which he has had 
use of.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should: 
Pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused him. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
(market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities 
Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities 
Limited may wish to require that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may 
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Alexander 
David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Mr B would have invested. But I think the index I have outlined 
above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the degree of risk that 
Mr B said he was willing to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure 
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
I think it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Bs complaint on either of the bases I have 
outlined in my provisional decision and above; that is, that Templeton Securities failed to 
meet its regulatory obligation under the Principles. And that its likely a court would decide 
that Mr B could recover his money under s27. 
Accordingly, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr B as I 
have outlined above in Putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman