DRN-3244791
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the handling by John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John 
Lewis) of his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr V paid £685.76 using his John Lewis credit card to a business, B, which 
supplies and fits carpets and other flooring. The payment was a part payment for the supply 
and installation of flooring in his daughters home. Mr V paid the balance by a payment using 
his debit card. 
Mr V and his daughter were not happy with the quality of the work. He complained to John 
Lewis. He said that it, as the provider of the credit used to pay for the flooring and its 
installation, was equally liable with B for the poor quality of the work. 
John Lewis asked Mr V to obtain an experts report on the work. He did that, at a cost of over 
£500.
When John Lewis reviewed the complaint further, however, it said that it was not liable under 
section 75. Bs contract was, it said, not with Mr V but with his daughter. The necessary 
relationships for a claim under section 75 were not therefore in place. 
Mr V referred the complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. The investigator did not however recommend that the complaint be upheld, 
for broadly the same reasons as those given by John Lewis. Mr V asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that John Lewis has agreed to refund the cost of the inspection report and has paid Mr 
V £150 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put. 
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that, subject to certain conditions, 
an individual who pays for goods or services using a credit card and who has a claim against 
the supplier of those goods or services for breach of contract has a like claim against the 
provider of credit. Financial limits apply; the transaction was within those limits, so I dont 
need to discuss that further. 
For section 75 to apply, the transaction must be financed under pre-existing arrangements or 
in anticipation of such arrangements between the supplier (in this case B) and the creditor 
(John Lewis). Again, that condition was met, because B was able, through the relevant card 
scheme, to accept credit card payments. 
The issue I need to consider, therefore, is whether Mr V has a claim against for breach of 
contract. He can only have a claim for breach of contract if he entered into a contract with B. 
I accept of course that he paid for the supply and installation of the flooring, but that, of itself, 
does not mean that he has a contract with B  although it may be a relevant factor.
The contractual documents that Mr V has provided include a quote for the work dated 5 
March 2020 and an invoice dated 18 March 2020. Both are addressed to Mr Vs daughter at 
her address  although Mr V says they were sent to his email account. He says too that the 
initial contact with and visit to B was made by him, not his daughter. 
I have taken all that into account, but have reached the conclusion that Bs contract was with 
Mr Vs daughter, not with him. I do not believe that the fact that he made payment is enough 
to make Mr V a party to that contract. He was not obliged under the contract to make any 
payment at all and, had he not done so, B would not have had a claim against him. 
Mr V has said that he paid for the flooring as a gift to his daughter. I can see why he sees 
the arrangements in that way and do not think it wrong to do so. But, in the context of this 
claim, I think there is a difference between a purchaser (P) buying goods and giving them to 
someone else (R) and R buying them and P making payment. 
For these reasons, I think it was reasonable of John Lewis not to accept the section 75 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require John Lewis Financial Services Limited to do any 
more to resolve Mr Vs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman