DRN-4317594
The complaint
Mrs K complains that she was provided with inappropriate advice, or insufficient information, 
by Lloyds Bank PLC about making some additional pension contributions.
What happened
The advice that was provided to Mrs K was from a representative of TSB. That firm is now 
part of Lloyds, so it is Lloyds that is required to deal with this complaint. For ease, in this 
decision, I will refer to Lloyds as the responsible business throughout. Mrs K was unmarried 
when the advice was given so was known by her maiden name. And Mrs K has been 
assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. But, again for ease, in 
this decision I will simply refer Mrs K as the consumer at all times and treat all 
communication as if it has been with, and from, Mrs K herself.
In 1993 Mrs K was aged 30 and employed by her local council. She had been a member of 
her occupational pension scheme (OPS) for around 5 years. She met, with an advisor 
employed by Lloyds.
The advisor recommended that Mrs K should take out a pension policy in order that she 
could make free-standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to increase her 
savings for retirement. Mrs K accepted the advice and agreed to make gross monthly 
contributions of £30. She complains that Lloyds failed to make her sufficiently aware of the 
additional voluntary contribution (AVC) options offered by the OPS.
Mrs Ks complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Lloyds 
had complied with its regulatory obligations when giving the advice to Mrs K. And he thought 
that the advice Mrs K had been given was suitable for her circumstances and objectives. So 
he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs K didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs K and by Lloyds. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The advisor that met with Mrs K was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant they 
could only recommend products offered by Lloyds. They couldnt actively recommend any 
other products from any other product providers including the in-house options (AVCs or 
added years) offered by the OPS.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at that time 
- LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The LAUTRO Code 
said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, 
care and diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the 
interests of investors. It added that businesses should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options would most 
likely be available to consumers like Mrs K. And in addition to highlighting the benefits of the 
FSAVC plan, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic benefits of the in-house options, 
including that:
Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVCs
Added years might be available under a defined benefit OPS
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option.
The advice that Mrs K was given by Lloyds was provided almost 30 years ago. There is no 
recording or transcript of what was said in that meeting. And over such an extended period 
of time even the most careful of memories can, and do, fade. So I dont think it unreasonable 
that I should rely on the documentation that was produced after the meeting, and was signed 
by Mrs K, as the best record of what is likely to have been discussed.
In November 1993 Lloyds completed what was headed a Financial Appraisal Form. Mrs K 
signed that form to confirm that it was an accurate reflection of her financial circumstances. 
In the section headed Income on Retirement was the comment;
[Mrs K] is planning to retire at 55. She understands there will be a shortfall. She has 
discussed AVCs with her company but still prefers to take out a private one. She 
understands the charging structure and the penalties for retiring early.
Im satisfied, based on the above, that Mrs K was aware that her OPS offered AVCs when 
she agreed to take the FSAVC plan from Lloyds. And it seems that she was given 
information about how charges would be applied to her FSAVC plan. It seems likely that, as part of her information gathering into the AVC plan, Mrs K would have also obtained some 
information about the charges she would need to pay if she took that option instead.
I think it is important to remember that Lloyds wasnt required to provide Mrs K with a direct 
comparison between the AVC and FSAVC options. In simple terms Lloyds needed to 
provide Mrs K with information about the FSAVC plan and set her off on her own research to 
compare that information to the AVC scheme. I can see that Lloyds gave Mrs K an 
illustration showing how her FSAVC savings might grow, and the income that might provide 
for her at retirement. And that is something she could have readily used when deciding 
whether an AVC plan, or the FSAVC plan, would be better for her circumstances.
There was a period of around six weeks after Lloyds meeting with Mrs K to gather the 
information about her circumstances and make its recommendation for the FSAVC plan, and 
when Mrs K completed the application form for that plan. I think that period of time allowed 
Mrs K some further reflection about the advice shed been given, and to make further 
enquires of the OPS if she thought it necessary.
Mrs K told Lloyds that she wanted to retire at age 55. Her OPS scheme retirement age was 
five years later, and Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mrs K would have had any 
right to insist on early retirement from her OPS. So it seems entirely reasonable that she 
asked Lloyds to provide her with some advice about making provision for those years of 
early retirement when she might not have been able to take any pension income from the 
OPS. And I think it important to remember that, in 1993 when the advice was provided, the 
legislation at that time required AVC and main scheme pension benefits to be taken at the 
same time.
Mrs Ks FSAVC payments were invested into a managed fund. I havent seen much detail 
about Mrs Ks attitude to risk at that time. But she had more than twenty years until even her 
earliest expected retirement date, so I think a balanced approach to her pension investments 
would have been appropriate here. So I havent seen anything to make me think that the 
investment advice Lloyds gave to Mrs K was inappropriate.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs K, but the evidence I have seen 
suggests that Lloyds met its regulatory obligations when it sold the FSAVC plan to her in 
1993. I think the advice Lloyds gave to Mrs K was suitable for her circumstances and 
objectives at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman