DRN-4324045
The complaint
Mr T, represented by Mr T2, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt provide the service it 
should have when he needed to set up a standing order.
What happened
Mr T sent a standing order instruction to HSBC, but HSBC didnt set this up and instead 
wrote to Mr T at the address it had on file to say he would need to attend a branch to set up 
the payment. It also returned the original letter to him. Mr T says that visiting a branch wasnt 
reasonable given his mobility issues and that this shouldnt have been requested. He also 
found it insulting that his original letter was returned.
Mr T2 says he made several calls to HSBC. He says the adviser initially didnt appear to 
know what to do which he said showed a lack of commitment to the Equality Act 2010. He 
says the advisers telephone manner became aggressive and the call dropped, and no call 
back was made. Mr T2 says he mentioned having a power of attorney but made it clear that 
this wouldnt be provided to HSBC due to a lack of trust. He says that HSBC then went on to 
search the Office of the Public Guardian without his consent. 
Mr T2 says the calls with the specialist team were difficult with a member of staff refusing to 
make a payment due to verification issues and rejecting the use of an interpreter as a 
reasonable adjustment for a customer with hearing loss. Mr T2 says that another member of 
staff then assisted and made the payment.
HSBC said that at the time Mr T2 contacted it about setting up a payment from Mr Ts 
account, it had no record of Mr T2 having authority in regard to Mr Ts account. It checked 
with the Office of the Public Guardian and found that Mr T had a Lasting Power of Attorney 
(LPoA) in place with Mr T2 as the attorney. It said the information it received was insufficient 
for it to register the LPoA on Mr Ts account and provided details to Mr T2 of how this could 
be done.
HSBC said that its Specialist Banking Team had assisted Mr T by contacting the care home 
it was told he was residing in and enabling certain payments to be made from Mr Ts 
account. It didnt accept that it had treated Mr T unfairly.  
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that HSBC had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr T unfairly when asked to set up a standing order from his account. He 
noted the initial signature on the instruction didnt match the mandate and so security 
needed to be completed. Unfortunately, the questions werent answered correctly. He noted 
that HSBCs specialist team then assisted in getting the payment set up. 
Mr T2 didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated his concerns about how the calls 
were handled and said a call back with the specialist unit wasnt arranged because it hadnt 
been requested by Mr T which was discriminatory. He said that on the call with the specialist 
team the adviser reneged on the agreement of a three-way conversation as a reasonable 
adjustment and had a poor attitude expecting him to wait excessive amounts of time.
Mr T2 said the LPoA in place relates to Health and Social care not financial arrangements 
and would only be registered if Mr T lost mental capacity, which isnt the situation. Mr T2 
says he wasnt trying to use the LPoA to make the payment and even if he had the bank 
would have needed his identification before acting on this. Therefore, Mr T2 says this isnt 
relevant to the issues raised. He says his role was to act as an interpreter as a reasonable 
adjustment to overcome Mr Ts disability of hearing loss. He said so long as the bank could 
hear Mr Ts responses directly there should be no need for Mr T2 to provide identification for 
his role as interpreter. He said the actions HSBC took were less safe than using him as an 
interpreter and noted that since this issue HSBC has attempted security using Mr T2 as an 
interpreter. He said HSBC was inconsistent in its approach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T2 says that HSBCs actions were discriminatory against Mr T. While we take any 
allegation of discrimination seriously, I should first explain that we are an informal dispute 
resolution service, meaning we dont have the power to decide whether or not HSBC is in 
breach of the Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to do this. What we can do is 
take relevant law and regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of a complaint. 
Mr T2 has raised several issues about the service received when trying to set up a standing 
order from Mr Ts account. While I may not comment on every point raised, I want to 
reassure Mr T and Mr T2 that I have listened to the calls provided and taken all of the 
evidence into account when reaching my decision. I also want to explain that while I note the 
process was frustrating for Mr T2, as he isnt the complainant, I wouldnt be able to award 
anything for any distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Mr T sent a letter to HSBC to set up a standing order. Mr T then received a letter saying that 
due to the information HSBC held it wasnt able to proceed with the request and Mr T should 
visit a branch with his identification for this issue to be resolved. Mr Ts original letter was 
also returned. I appreciate that this was frustrating for Mr T and given his mobility issues 
visiting a branch wasnt a reasonable request. But, at the time of the standing order request, 
HSBC didnt have any record of Mr Ts disabilities or any indication that Mr T was living in a 
care home. Therefore, when there was an issue setting up the instruction, I do not find that it 
did anything wrong by writing to Mr T at the address it had on file about this and to explain 
how this could be resolved. 
I note Mr T2s comment that regular non urgent correspondence should come to the address 
on file but as the instruction needed urgent attention due to the timing of the payment it 
would have been better to have called. I think this is a reasonable comment that should be 
taken on board by HSBC. I also think that HSBC could have provided further details about 
why the standing order hadnt been able to be set up. I note Mr T2s comment that the return 
of the original letter was insulting to Mr T. It isnt clear why this was returned, but I dont think 
this was intended to cause any upset rather that the correspondence was returned as it 
couldnt be acted on. So, on balance, when considering the initial response to the original 
mandate sent to HSBC, and based on the information available to it at that time, I do not find 
that HSBC did anything wrong.
Mr T2 made several calls to HSBC. I have listened to the calls provided from 5 to 8 August 
2022. On the call on 5 August Mr T2 says he has a LPoA but that HSBC hasnt seen this. 
The adviser asks for details and Mr T2 doesnt provide these. So, while I note the comments 
about the silences, I do not find that Mr T2 provided the details the adviser needed in order to be able to assist him. On a call on 6 August Mr T2 asks for confirmation that a call back 
will happen if the call drops. This was important to him as there did appear to be issue with 
the telephone system at the time. Mr T2 sounded frustrated at the time, and I appreciate he 
didnt want to provide details until he had certain issues confirmed. But because he didnt 
provide any details the adviser explained that they couldnt book in a call back. A further call 
then took place where it was confirmed that Mr T could be verified by the specialist banking 
team through a three-way conversation. While I understand Mr T2 feels the calls showed 
that HSBC was discriminatory against disabled people, having listened to these initial calls, I 
think the advisers were trying to assist and as Mr T2 didnt provide any details in regard to 
Mr T or the issues he had, it was limited in the help it could provide. That said, a way forward 
was confirmed regarding the need to verify Mr T.
A call took place with the specialist banking team. This was a difficult call as Mr T2 was 
aggressive in his approach and while the adviser did try to assist, he could have done more 
to show he was taking Mr T2s comments about discrimination more seriously. Mr T was 
present with Mr T2 on the call and the adviser tried to take him through the security 
questions. I note the comments about this but I find that the adviser was trying to assist while 
still ensuring the procedure was being carried out correctly.  Based on the call, Mr T 
appeared to answer most of the questions without issue, but he didnt pass security (possibly 
due to his final answer about the account movements). At this point I think the adviser could 
have looked to see if there were other questions that would be more suitable to ask, noting 
Mr Ts situation, to see if the verification could happen. That said, as security wasnt passed, 
I cannot say he was wrong not to continue with the transaction. 
On the call on 8 August, the adviser apologised for the service Mr T2 had received and 
Mr T2 was then comfortable proving details. This was a positive call on which the adviser 
explained how he could move forward with setting up the standing order and provide a 
solution to ensure the initial payment was made on time. I note Mr T2s comments about the 
approach taken to make the payment but this was a positive outcome for Mr T, and I find the 
adviser worked with Mr T2 to find a solution for Mr T.
There has been discussion about the LPoA. I have considered the points made and 
appreciate that Mr T2 hadnt provided HSBC with this at the time and that the LPoA will 
come into force if Mr T loses mental capacity to deal with his affairs, which isnt the current 
situation. Therefore, this isnt a relevant consideration at this point. Mr T2 has been provided 
with the information about registering the LPoA with HSBC should he need to in due course. 
I note Mr T2s comment about the checks made with the Office of the Public Guardian and 
that he may make a separate complaint about this.
In conclusion, this decision is about the actions taken by HSBC when a standing order was 
trying to be set up on behalf of a vulnerable consumer, Mr T. Having considered the service 
provided by HSBC, once it was aware of Mr Ts situation it informed Mr T2 of a service for 
deaf customers and explained how Mr T2 could be given authority on Mr Ts account to 
assist with future transitions. Mr T2 made it clear he wanted to have the verification process 
undertaken through a three-way call and this was carried out. Unfortunately, Mr T didnt pass 
the security the first time this was attempted. On a follow up call a convenient time for the 
verification process to take place was arranged so the standing order could be set up and 
the adviser took extra steps to ensure the payment that was due before the standing order 
could be set up was made on time. Based on this I find that HSBC did make reasonable 
adjustments to assist Mr T and I do not find I can say it treated him unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman