DRN-3854236
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) have unfairly handled a subsidence 
claim made under their buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs T, or QIC includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs T made a subsidence claim on their QIC policy in August 2019. 
QIC appointed various agents to investigate the damage and its cause.
The cause of the subsidence was established to be due to a neighbours trees, which 
following correspondence with the council and neighbour, were removed in early 
2021. QIC then carried out monitoring to establish the removal of the vegetation had 
resolved the subsidence issue. This monitoring was completed in November 2021.
QIC reviewed the findings of the monitoring in January 2022 and said further 
stabilisation works would be needed. Following a further drain inspection, it said no 
further works were needed so repairs could begin.
Mr and Mrs T complained. They said QIC had taken too long to progress the claim, 
and the outstanding repairs would mean their home is much colder this winter.
QIC said it had handled the claim fairly, attributed the timeframe to necessary 
investigations and to factors outside of its control, including responses of third-party 
contractors. 
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said QIC had unjustifiable delays across the latter part of the claim, detailing gaps in 
progression in late 2021 and across 2022. And she said any capacity issue for QICs 
agents sat with QIC as the insurer that was responsible for the claim overall. 
The Investigator said for these reasons, and as a result of poor communication on 
QICs part, QIC should pay £500 in compensation to Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs T accepted this. QIC didnt provide anything further or reply to the view.
So, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case, the claim in question has been accepted by QIC. 
To my knowledge, QIC has said it is satisfied the property is stable and will begin 
repairs or look to settle this in line with its obligations under the policy. As this matter 
is ongoing, I dont intend on commenting on it beyond saying I would expect it to take 
this matter forward promptly.
The dispute here concerns Mr and Mrs Ts belief that QIC has taken too long to 
handle the claim which has led to the claim still ongoing.
ICOBS 8.1. requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide 
appropriate information on a claims progress. 
Given the history of the claim has been detailed by our Investigator elsewhere at 
length I see no reason to repeat this in detail. But I agree with our Investigator that 
the earlier part of the claim seems to have progressed at a reasonable pace, and that 
the obstacles of identifying ownership of the nearby vegetation and obtaining 
permission to resolve this had slowed matters, but outside of the control of QIC given 
there were various third parties involved.
From late 2021 there appear to be avoidable delays on part of QIC. This includes a 
gap between completion of monitoring in November 2021 and its review in January 
2021. And a noticeable gap between August and October 2021 since the drainage 
survey was received and then actioned. While I understand these sorts of reviews 
can take time to complete, in these instances it appears to be gaps of months which 
is longer than Id expect to see. 
QIC has said some of the time taken was due to awaiting work or input from agents. 
Again, I understand QIC may not have direct control over each of its contractor 
agents and their own workloads, but QIC is ultimately responsible for the actions of 
its nominated agents in a claim like this. So, it follows that Im satisfied QIC is 
responsible for delays caused by any contractors or agents it has appointed.
In 2022, it also appears to have taken around ten months for QIC to determine 
further stabilisation works werent necessary and moving the claim to repairs. Ive 
reviewed the explanation and timeline given by QIC and it seems its agents did 
progress matters and complete necessary steps with the intent of ensuring the repair 
method was correct. However, once more between each of the steps of review 
across 2022 there are unexplained gaps of months that Im not satisfied 
demonstrates QIC handled the matter promptly. 
I would also recognise QIC has kept Mr and Mrs T updated in places, but I think it 
couldve handled this better than it did.
Ive thought carefully about the impacts of the delays on Mr and Mrs T in light of their 
personal circumstances, and Im satisfied the Investigators recommendation of £500 
compensation is a fair and reasonable sum.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd must pay Mr and Mrs T £500 in compensation 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman