DRN-1714862
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly applied charges to his credit card 
accounts or to help him when he fell into financial difficulties. The bank trades in this case 
under its Barclaycard brand. 
What happened
Mr A had two credit card accounts, one opened around September 2013 and one which was 
opened in around January 2015. 
Throughout 2015 there were several late or missed payments  on both accounts. Late or 
missed payment charges were added. The first account was defaulted in November 2015 
and charges suspended.
Mr A contacted Barclaycard in or about April 2016 to say that he had suffered from a medical 
issue which meant that he had found it difficult to maintain payments. Barclaycard says that 
it agreed a payment plan for the amount owing on the first account.  
Barclaycard says too that the second account had not defaulted and that Mr A made two 
large payments to bring it up-to-date. He continued to make payments in line with the credit 
card agreement and cleared the balance in October 2017. 
Mr A also received refunds of charges totalling £135 over both accounts  in part in 
response to an earlier complaint and in part as part of a wider project. 
Mr A didnt consider however that the bank had done enough to help him, given his 
circumstances. He referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators 
considered it. He thought however that Barclaycard had done enough and didnt recommend 
it do any more.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that there were late and missing payments on several occasions in 2015. However, 
Barclaycard contacted Mr A to draw his attention to them and to offer help and advice. As 
well as providing its own contact details, it also provided information about external 
organisations that might be able to help  including debt charities and this service. It doesnt 
appear however that Mr A contacted Barclaycard to explain his circumstances until some 
time later. 
Im not persuaded that the charges that the bank applied were unfair, or that they were 
applied other than in line with the account terms. I dont believe that I can properly say, as 
Mr A does, that they were extortionate. 
Mr A says that he was unable because of his health to contact Barclaycard until around April 
2016. That may well be the case, but I note in any event that charges on one of the accounts 
had been suspended by then. When Barclaycard did find out about Mr As health condition, I 
believe it took reasonable steps to assist him  including agreeing a repayment plan on the 
first account. 
I note too that Barclaycard registered a default, but that was, in my view, a reasonable step 
to take. Banks and other lenders share credit information about their customers and mutually 
agree to ensure that its accurate. Mr A hadnt been able to operate his accounts in the way 
intended, and so I dont believe it was unreasonable for Barclaycard to record that fact. 
We do expect lenders to behave in a positive and sympathetic manner where borrowers are 
finding it difficult to meet their obligations. But I take the view that the bank did that here and 
so dont intend to make an award in Mr As favour. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more to resolve 
Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman