DRN-4250757
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly discriminated against him by not sending 
notice of closure of his bank account via a large print letter as required by the Equality Act. 
And said Barclays hasnt sent him letters in large print during their banking relationship. 
What happened
Barclays closed Mr Cs account due to what it described as his unacceptable behaviour. It 
sent notice on 30 June 2022, but not in large print. Mr C said he was unaware until he went 
into branch on 2 July 2022 to find out why he had no account access. Barclays then allowed 
a seven-day switch and reinstated his debit card. 
Barclays responded to Mr Cs complaint by apologising for not sending notice of the account 
closure and other letters in large print. It paid Mr C a total of £400 compensation for the 
inconvenience and frustration it had caused and its failure to clarify Mr Cs needs in relation 
to his disability. Barclays said Mr Cs statement preference is set to large print, but not 
letters, which it couldnt explain. It said Mr C hadnt complained about this before, as he said 
he wasnt aware it was a protected characteristic. 
Mr C says hes due additional compensation for breach of the Equality Act as Barclays didnt 
provide proper legal notice of closure, and for his distress and inconvenience. He also wants 
an undertaking from Barclays that it will reimburse him if any missed letters result in financial 
losses. In return Mr C said he will forbear from legal action for Barclays breach of the 
Equality Act. 
Because Mr C was dissatisfied with Barclays response he brought his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said we cant decide if the 
Equality Act 2010 has been breached  thats a matter for the court. And we cant fine or 
punish a business, as we arent the financial regulator. She said Barclays was within its 
rights to close the account, but should have sent notice in large print. She said Mr C didnt 
have access to his account for four days, but hed said that all his payments had been made. 
The investigator thought it wouldve upset Mr C to discover his account had been closed and 
wasnt accessible for four days, but didnt think there was any loss, so she thought the 
compensation was reasonable. She said in normal circumstances once a closure notice is 
issued customers wouldnt have access to an account until another was opened. So, she 
thought Barclays had treated Mr C fairly.
Mr C disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said Barclays failure to send due legal notice of account closure in large print and its other 
undertakings arent just a minor inconvenience. He said the investigator had showed no 
comprehension of the stress and illness hes faced over two years which should merit 
compensation of £3,000. Mr C said all his complaints should be looked at together.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has examined each aspect of Mr Cs complaint, in particular the provision or 
otherwise of large print letters. I hope Mr C doesnt consider it a discourtesy if I dont address 
every point he has made, but I have considered the main issues and reviewed the available 
information, including calls and the investigators findings. 
Separate complaints have been raised for Mr C concerning correspondence not being sent 
to him in large print in response to his formal request for information under the law, and the 
delays experienced in receiving the information. This includes the letter of 30 May 2022 to 
which Mr C has referred. And the closure of his bank account and subsequent 
communications from Barclays. I have considered these complaints separately.
From what Barclays has said its not clear if its notice of closure letter was actually sent in 
large print. Previously Barclays showed that a large print maker was noted on Mr Cs 
account on 11 March 2021 for statements, however a marker wasnt applied to his account 
for large print letters until 9 August 2022. In any event, Barclays has acknowledged that it 
should have sent notice of closure to Mr C in large print and apologised. Its records include a 
note of his disability. 
Mr C said hes suffered financially from Barclays failure to comply with the Equality Act and 
communicate with him as it should. Hes said there are many occasions when Barclays 
havent sent him letters in large print. Ive looked at the examples of these letters that Mr C 
has sent us, and fortunately they do not appear to present a risk of financial loss to Mr C.  
Mr C thinks hes still missing information. I agree with the investigator that this looks unlikely 
to have any financial impact, but if something does come to light then he can bring a further 
complaint to Barclays about this. 
Barclays said it didnt check Mr Cs requirements when it sent the closure letter and has 
subsequently promised to send him the other correspondence. This was clearly an error by 
Barclays, and I am pleased that it responded by extending the life of Mr Cs account and 
bank card so he could switch accounts.  
Having considered what happened to Mr C I have followed our normal practice of looking at 
the fairness of the compensation Barclays put forward overall rather than in terms of 
individual errors. I should point out to Mr C that we must assess any evidenced losses, not 
what might have befallen him.
 
I was sorry to learn about the stress and inconvenience Mr C suffered from being unaware 
that Barclays had closed his bank account. Barclays has paid £250 for its letters not being 
sent in large print and £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C for being 
without access to his account for four days, I think this compensation is fair and in line with 
what we would consider reasonable in these circumstances had Barclays not already done 
so, and I dont require Barclays to pay any more.  
And so overall and in the light of everything that has happened I have found that Barclays 
apologies and payment of compensation is a fair and reasonable reflection of the impact of 
its conduct on Mr C.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman