DRN-3814468
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc removed a spend block on his account without 
his permission.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr H contacted Capital One regarding some transactions on his credit card 
account. He asked Capital One to block the transactions.
Mr H says he was told that the spend block would be in place until he requested otherwise. 
However, the block was removed after 30 days and, as a result, further transactions to the 
same retailer were able to go through.
Mr H complained to Capital One. He said he had gambling issues and that Capital One 
shouldnt have allowed him to make transactions to a gambling website. Mr H said hed 
incurred non sterling fees as well, which had caused him to exceed his credit limit. Mr H 
asked Capital One to refund the transactions amounts and refund the non-sterling fees.
In its final response, Capital One said it had applied a temporary block to the account 
because Mr H had said he didnt recognise the transactions. Capital One said it had been 
clear with Mr H that the block was temporary and that if Mr H wanted to take the matter 
further, he would need to contact Capital One again. Capital One said that because it didnt 
hear from Mr H within 30 days, the block automatically dropped off the account and the 
transactions were treated as genuine.
Capital One also said that the transactions werent classified as gambling transactions and 
so were allowed to be made using a credit card.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He listened to the call between Mr H and 
Capital One and said that Mr H had been advised that the block was temporary. The 
investigator said there was no evidence that Capital One was aware of Mr Hs gambling 
issues at the time the block was imposed and said that he couldnt have expected Capital 
One to have considered circumstances that it didnt know about. The investigator said that 
as son as Capital One became aware of Mr Hs gambling issues it had re-applied the blocks 
and offered further support if Mr H needed it.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed understood the block had been permanent and he couldnt 
remember being told that it would be temporary. He said that even if he had been told that 
the block was temporary, he hadnt been told what the duration of the block would be. Mr H 
also disputed the categorisation of the transactions. He said they were for gambling and 
shouldve been rejected.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call recording provided by Capital One.
In the call, Mr H told Capital One that there were transactions on the account which he didnt 
recognise. The advisor offered to put a block on the account so that Mr H could check the 
transactions. The advisor told Mr H that the block would be temporary but didnt provide 
further details of how long the bloc would be effective for. At the end of the conversation, it 
was agreed that Mr H would call back if he wanted the transactions investigated further.
Mr H didnt tell Capital One during the call that the transactions related to gambling, or that 
he had gambling issues. 
Capital One removed the block after 30 days. Whilst I agree that Mr H wasnt told that the 
block would be removed after 30 days, he was told that the block would be temporary. So, I 
dont think its reasonable for Mr H to say that he thought the block would be permanent, or 
that his permission was required to remove it. That isnt supported by the call which Ive 
listened to.
Given that Mr H was told that the block would be temporary, I think he ought reasonably to 
have understood that it would be removed at some point. I think that 30 days was a 
reasonable period to leave the block in place because this gave Mr H plenty of time to 
contact Capital One again if he wanted the transactions investigated further, which is what 
was agreed should happen during the call.  
Had Mr H made Capital One aware that he had a gambling issue during the first call, its 
possible that Capital One may have acted differently. But Mr H didnt make Capital One 
aware of his gambling issues, so I cant fairly say that it shouldve imposed a permanent 
block at that stage. I can see that as soon as Mr H told Capital One about his gambling 
issues, it offered to put a permanent block on the account. I think Capital One acted fairly 
and reasonably as soon as it became aware of Mr Hs gambling issues.
In relation to the non-sterling fees, the terms and conditions of Mr Hs agreement for the 
credit card say that these will be charged. I havent seen any information to suggest that the 
transactions shouldnt have attracted a non-sterling fee.
Mr H has said that Capital One offered him the sum of £50 to close the complaint. Ive been 
unable to find any evidence of this. But even if this sum was offered to Mr H, Mr H has told 
this service that he rejected the offer. I dont think Capital One has treated Mr H unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way it handled the block, so I wont be asking it to pay any 
compensation. 
I appreciate that Mr H feels that the transactions shouldnt have been allowed on his card 
because they were gambling transactions. Mr H is correct that the use of credit cards has 
been banned for some gambling transactions. However, the transactions in Mr Hs case 
arent classified as gambling, so they werent subject to these rules. It isnt up to Capital One 
to decide whether a transaction is a gambling transaction or not. The classification is 
determined by the retailer. In this case, the retailer advised Capital One that the transactions 
were categorised as Video Amusement Game Supplies, Electronic Stores or Digital Goods - 
Games. Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that this classification was incorrect. 
And even if the retailer had incorrectly classified the transactions, this isnt something I can 
fairly hold Capital One responsible for.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman