DRN-3897282
The complaint
Ms D complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Lloyds Bank incorrectly played a recorded 
message that accused her of being an abusive caller, and suggested her account was at risk 
of being closed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for 
these reasons:
Lloyds has told Ms D and our Service that human error caused her call to be diverted 
to a line in which a message was played that suggested she had been demonstrating 
unacceptable behaviours. Unfortunately, Lloyds have been unable to send us a 
recording of this message. This means Ive been unable to hear the tone in which the 
message was read out. However, Ms D has explained the tone was sufficiently 
serious for her to believe her account was at risk of being closed. Ms Ds testimony 
has been consistent with Lloyds and our Service, so I have no reason to disbelieve 
what shes said about the tone of this message.
While Ive been unable to hear the recording myself, I have seen a script of what she 
heard. This script suggested Lloyds would be reviewing her previous call to them and 
this could result in her account being closed. Given what Ms D would have heard, 
I dont consider its unreasonable that she would have found the message very 
distressing, or that it impacted the way she felt she could use her account. And 
having listened to Ms Ds calls with Lloyds, Im satisfied she remained courteous  
even when there were problems hearing one of the advisers. So, I also understand 
her strength of feeling about the playing of this message being unwarranted. 
Because of this, its only appropriate Lloyds does something to put things right.
After hearing the message, Ms D called Lloyds again and explained what had 
happened to a different adviser. I consider the adviser she spoke to was empathetic 
and took Ms Ds concerns seriously. I was pleased to hear this adviser proactively 
apologise for what had happened, ensure Ms D was aware she was taking extensive 
notes of her concerns, arranged for a manager to listen to the previous call while 
Ms D was on the phone, and confirmed Ms Ds account wouldnt be closed. This is 
what I would have expected Lloyds to do in the circumstances.
Lloyds issued their final response eight days after the incident Ms D has complained 
about. Businesses have up to eight weeks to respond to a complaint, so Im 
persuaded Lloyds swift investigation demonstrates they took Ms Ds concerns 
seriously. Ms D has been open with Lloyds and our Service about the impact this 
mistake had on her health. So, I consider dealing with her complaint within this 
quicker timeframe was the right thing to do.
Lloyds offered Ms D £200 in recognition of the serious distress they caused. Ms D 
has said this amount isnt enough to recognise the impact. Shes said it caused her 
mental health to deteriorate and made her lose confidence in calling Lloyds in the 
future or using her account. Because of this, Ms D says shes been doing more 
spending on her credit card to reduce her interaction with Lloyds to prevent 
something like this happening again.
I am very sorry to hear how Lloyds mistake has impacted Ms Ds health. Im also 
sorry to see shes lost confidence in using their banking facilities. But while I consider 
she should be compensated; I cant agree £200 isnt a fair award in the 
circumstances. Lloyds told Ms D her account wouldnt be closed on the day she 
heard the message. They also explained theyd made a mistake just over a week 
later. So, Im satisfied they addressed her concerns in a relatively short timeframe. If 
it werent for the level of impact Ms D has described to us, I may have suggested a 
lower award for a similar incident addressed over that period of time. However, the 
impact on Ms Ds health is why I consider £200 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
resolve her complaint.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms D hoped for, but for the reasons above, I wont be asking 
Lloyds to increase their offer.
My final decision
My decision is that Im upholding Ms Ds complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Lloyds Bank.
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Lloyds Bank has already offered £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Lloyds Bank should pay £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman