DRN-4334195
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that Accredited insurance (Europe) Limited declined their claim for 
a quadbike stolen when their garage was broken into.
Accredited are the underwriters of this policy ie the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the intermediary/agent. As Accredited have accepted they are accountable for 
the actions of the /intermediary/agent, in my provisional decision, any reference to 
Accredited includes the actions of their intermediary/agent.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have, for a number of years, arranged their property insurance through an 
intermediary Ill call A. in the relevant policy year, A sourced buildings insurance for them 
which was underwritten by Accredited. Mr and Mrs Cs contents policy was underwritten by 
another insurer.
In spring 2022, Mr and Mrs Cs garage was broken into and a quad bike stolen. So Mr and 
Mrs C contacted Accredited to make a claim.
The claim was dealt with on behalf of Accredited by their agent  which Ill call M. The 
damage caused to the garage was dealt with. But M said cover for the quad bike was 
excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C complained. In response, M said that their policy provided cover for contents. 
But there was a specific exclusion which said:
The following are not included as contents.
(a) Road vehicles or any other mechanically or electrically propelled or assisted vehicles or 
toys
M said the quad bike fell within this exclusion.
Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied with the response to their complaint and brought it to our 
service. They said the exclusion M had referred to wasnt included in the policy documents 
theyd received.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Accredited didnt need to do 
anything more to resolve it. She was satisfied the quad bike fell within the exclusion set out 
above.
When I reviewed all the information about Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, I reached a different 
conclusion.  So I made a provisional decision.  
I noted that M made a mistake in considering the quadbike claim, because they considered it 
on behalf of Accredited  not the contents insurer.  So, while I couldnt comment on their 
decision to decline the claim, I was satisfied Ms actions, as Accrediteds agent caused Mr 
and Mrs C confusion, trouble and upset and meant the correct insurer had never had the 
chance to consider the claim.  I said Accredited should compensate Mr and Mrs C for their 
agents error by paying them £200 compensation.
My decision was sent to both parties for their comments.  We have now received those, so 
the matters been returned to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision and which Ive summarised above.
M confirmed on behalf of Accredited that they accepted my provisional decision.  They made 
no further comments.
Mr and Mrs C said theyd contacted us to complain about A.  It was A with whom theyd dealt 
and who collected their insurance premium and theyd never said Accredited had declined 
their claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs Cs confusion.  The sale and administration of insurance policies 
often involves a number of parties and identifying the right business against whom a 
complaint should be made can be very difficult.  It involves us looking not only at the parties 
with whom a consumer dealt, but also at what theyre complaining about, because only 
certain parties can deal with particular issues.
In this case, Mr and Mrs C complained the claim theyd made for the theft of their quadbike 
had been declined.  The underwriter of the policy is responsible for deciding whether to 
accept or decline a claim  even if that decision is communicated by another business.  
Thats why we recorded the complaint against Accredited  the business that made the 
decision  not against A.  And it was Accrediteds agent who dealt incorrectly with that claim 
on their behalf  which is why Accredited need to compensate Mr and Mrs C for what went 
wrong. 
Putting things right
I said in my provisional decision I thought Accredited should pay Mr and Mrs C £200 
compensation for their agents failure to direct their claim to the right underwriter.  Neither 
partys made any comments which persuade me to change my provisional decision.  So 
thats what Accredited now need to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Limited and directing Accredited to pay them £200 compensation for the 
confusion, trouble and upset theyve caused Mr and Mrs C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman