DRN-3747478
The complaint
Mrs A complains that NewDay Ltd acted irresponsibly when it increased the credit limit on 
her credit card.
What happened
Mrs A had a credit card account with NewDay. She says she was experiencing significant 
financial difficulties and was on a debt management plan. She was surprised when NewDay 
offered her several credit limit increases on her card and later invited her to apply for a loan. 
She says she accepted the credit limit increases and the loan.
She was granted the following credit limit increases on her credit card:
August 2018 - increase from £900 to £2,100
March 2019 - increase from £2,100 to £2,850 
May 2019 - increase from £2,850 to £3,600
Mrs A says NewDay didnt check that the increases in credit were affordable or sustainable 
and there was no mechanism to safeguard her. She complained to NewDay.
NewDay looked into her complaint. It said it considered a range of information including 
information provided by Mrs A herself and data from external agencies before granting any 
credit limit increases on her credit card. It said it had no information at the time it granted the 
increases to inform it that she was on a debt management plan or that the loan was 
unaffordable. It only became aware of the debt management plan in February 2020. It said it 
had not acted unfairly or irresponsibly when it had granted credit limit increases on her 
credit card.
Mrs A referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into her complaint. He 
thought that when the limit on her credit card was increased in August 2018, there was no 
evidence that NewDay was aware that Mrs A had entered into a debt management plan. He 
considered the external information NewDay relied on. This showed that there were no 
accounts in a repayment plan and Mrs A was consistently making her repayments and was 
within her credit limits. So, he thought NewDay hadnt done anything wrong when it 
increased the credit limit in August 2018.
Our investigator then looked at the subsequent increases. He said that by March 2019, 
NewDay wouldve been aware that Mrs As circumstances had changed. She had increased 
borrowings, including from NewDay itself. He thought NewDay shouldve carried out 
additional checks to satisfy itself that the increased limit was affordable and sustainable. If it 
had carried out additional checks, he said NewDay wouldve found out about the repayment 
plan Mrs A had entered into and in those circumstances, he didnt think it wouldve 
increased the credit limit in March 2019 or in May 2019.
Our investigator said that NewDay should:
Refund all interest and charges paid by Mrs A on the credit card since March 
2019 and recalculate the capital outstanding on her account
If there was a debit balance, NewDay should apply no further interest or charges 
to her account and arrange a suitable repayment plan with her;
If there was a credit balance, NewDay should refund this amount to Mrs A 
together with 8% simple interest on this amount and
NewDay should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs As credit file 
after March 2019.
NewDay didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out that in this decision Im only looking at Mrs As complaint about 
her credit card. Her complaint about the loan has been looked at separately.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending is set out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mrs A would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable 
way?
New Day says that it assesses affordability by looking at a range of data including 
information provided by the applicant on the application form, data from external 
agencies which help it to estimate income and expenditure and data from credit 
reference agencies about other credit the applicant has. It doesnt ask the 
applicant to provide proof of income and expenditure and it says its not required 
to do that under the relevant regulations.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
states that a lender must undertake a reasonable assessment of the 
creditworthiness of a customer before providing credit or significantly increasing that 
credit. The creditworthiness check requires the lender to make reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower can afford the repayments 
and will be able to sustain the repayments. The lender is required to base its 
creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information. And, it can rely on 
information from the applicant and from external sources.
Ive looked at the checks that NewDay carried out at each point:
The initial credit limit
The account appears to have been opened in or about January 2018. NewDay has 
provided evidence to show that it initially assessed Mrs As application for credit on 
30 December 2017 and it determined that it would initially offer her a credit limit of 
£250. But, the initial credit limit granted to Mrs A was infact £900  more than three 
times the amount thatd been set out in the underwriting comments. I asked 
NewDay to explain the difference between these two amounts  but it has failed to 
respond.NewDay was aware from Mrs As credit history that shed defaulted on five previous 
credit facilities and the combined debt was in excess of £25,000. It did note on its 
records that the last default had occurred over 16 months previously. And, it decided 
she could afford a credit limit of £250.
So, Im not satisfied, based on the documentation it has provided, that NewDay 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to warrant the initial limit of £900 
which it set for Mrs As account.
Mrs A has told us that she had first contacted a debt management agency in May 
2015 and that she had various utility bills in arrears. Although theres no evidence of 
any debt management plan visible from looking at the credit file, given the 
information that was visible about defaulted accounts and taking account of the 
combined external debt, I think it wouldve been reasonable and proportionate for 
NewDay to ask Mrs A about her credit file history to see what arrangements, if any, 
she had in place to pay down the debts. If it had done that, I think it wouldve found 
out about the financial difficulties Mrs A has told us about and Im not persuaded it 
wouldve granted her a credit limit of £900.
August 2018
NewDay carried out its affordability assessment at this point based entirely on 
information from external agencies. It did not contact Mrs A to confirm her income 
or expenditure. The increase in the credit limit was from £900 to £2,100  so the 
limit was increasing significantly.
NewDay has provided a copy of the data it relied on. At this point, it appeared that 
Mrs A had been maintaining the repayments on her credit card. There doesnt 
appear to be any missed payments, late payments or over limit positions on her 
credit card. Her credit report showed that she was maintaining her repayments on 
her other credit facilities  although the historical position regarding the defaulted 
accounts was still visible.
Having looked at the information NewDay had access to including Mrs As credit 
history and the fact that the credit limit was significantly increasing, Im not satisfied 
it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
increased limit was affordable. So, Ive then considered what information further 
checks might have brought to light.
One of the things NewDay could have done to make further enquiries about 
whether the increase was affordable, was to ask Mrs A for copies of her bank 
statements, for the months leading up to the increase. So, Ive looked at bank 
statements which Mrs A has provided for the period after May 2018. I can see that 
although the account remained in credit, with regular credits from salary payments, 
there were returned direct debits each month from May 2018. Some of these direct 
debits related to utility and other essential household bills. I dont see any evidence 
of the debt management plan payments Mrs A has told us about during the period 
prior to August 2018.
Having thought about everything, I think NewDay shouldve carried out further 
checks in August 2018 and if it had done that I think it wouldve become aware 
that Mrs A was experiencing difficulties managing her finances  with some 
essential household bills not being paid. And, I dont think it would have agreed 
to increase the credit limit in August 2018.March 2019 and May 2019
Mrs A has told us that NewDay granted her a loan of £5,000 in December 2018. 
Just a few months later it increased her credit card limit again - from £2,100 to 
£2,850. Given the recent increase in her indebtedness, I agree with our investigator 
when he says that NewDay should have carried out additional checks before 
increasing Mrs As limit at this time. If it had done that, I think it wouldve become 
aware that shed started to make monthly repayments from her bank account under 
a debt management plan. And, I dont think it wouldve increased her credit limit 
either in March 2019 or subsequently in May 2019 when it increased the limit again 
to £3,600.
Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to indicate that NewDay has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way.
How to put things right
As I dont think NewDay ought to have opened the account or provided 
subsequent credit increases, Ive provisionally decided that I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. 
But, I think Mrs A should pay back the amounts she borrowed. Therefore, 
NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been 
applied since the date the account was opened.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs A 
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all 
adverse information regarding this account from Mrs As credit file.
Or,
if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs A for the remaining 
amount. Once Mrs A has cleared the balance, any adverse information in 
relation to the account should be removed from their credit file.
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out 
above is carried out promptly.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about NewDay Ltd.
I intend to require it to:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been 
applied since the date the account was opened.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs A 
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all 
adverse information regarding this account from Mrs As credit file.
Or,
if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs A for the remaining amount. Once Mrs A has cleared the balance, any adverse information in 
relation to the account should be removed from their credit file.
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
Mrs A responded to my provisional decision. She said she accepted the provisional decision 
in its entirety.
NewDay also responded to my provisional decision. It said it was unable to understand why 
the initial credit limit had been set at £900 in January 2018 when the information available on 
its files indicated this shouldve been £250. In the circumstances it said it agreed with my 
findings.
So, I now need to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. Both parties have agreed to 
accept my decision and I havent received any new or further information. So, theres nothing 
that persuades me to change my view as set out in my provisional decision or the actions I 
think NewDay needs to take to resolve this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about NewDay Ltd. I now require it to 
take the following actions:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been 
applied since the date the account was opened.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs A 
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all 
adverse information regarding this account from Mrs As credit file.
Or,
if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs A for the remaining 
amount. Once Mrs A has cleared the balance, any adverse information in 
relation to the account should be removed from Mrs As credit file.
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to deduct tax from any award of 
interest. It must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if 
she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it 
must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman