DRN-3356390
The complaint
Mr I complains that Capital Com (UK) Limited executed his trade at a different price than 
hed requested.
What happened
Mr I has a CFD trading account with Capital Com. He wanted to open a position in a 
particular stock that he believed would fall in price. He was looking to open a short position. 
To do so, he placed a limit order to sell the specific stock if it hit $90.
On 25 February 2021, the market opened at a gap, so the price of the stock Mr I placed a 
sell position for was around $111 and this is the price the trade executed at. Mr I closed the 
position later that day as the stock price rose to around $157. He says he lost over £6,000.
Mr I complained to Capital Com. Capital Com explained that Mr I had set a limit order and it 
had carried out that limit order at a better price which is in line with its terms. Unhappy with 
this Mr I brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained what slippage 
meant and how it applied in Mr Is case. She also explained that Capital Com hadnt done 
anything wrong in executing Mr Is trade at the price it did.
Mr I remained unhappy and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision so the complaint 
has been passed to me. He felt the trade shouldnt have taken place. He said had he known 
it was possible to have the trade executed at such a different price he wouldnt have placed 
the limit order.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to our Investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Is losses have been caused by the market moving in the opposite way he expected it to. 
The limit order he placed was to sell at a price of $90. Capital Coms terms say:
A Limit Order is an instruction to buy a CFD and/or Spread Bet at no more than a specific 
price, or to sell it at no less than a specific price (called or better for either direction).
Mr Is limit order was to sell at no less than $90  and this is what happened. It was sold at 
$111  this is referred to as positive slippage. But prices rose and he closed the position at 
a loss later that day  as his order was to open a position he wanted to short. Its worth 
saying that if Mr Is order had in fact been carried out at the exact price hed asked, his 
losses wouldve been even higher. This is because the market didnt do what he thought it 
would. He thought that the price of this stock would fall, but instead it rose significantly. So 
much so that the market opened at a gap.
I do understand Mr Is point that had the price been above $90 then he feels he wouldve 
known that the prices would rise and wouldnt have placed a trade, but Mr I made a limit 
order, which was carried out in line with the terms of his account. The losses hes incurred 
isnt the fault of Capital Com, but rather that the market moved in a different way to how Mr I 
expected. Mr Is limit order was to sell at no less than $90, and this is what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman