DRN-4337177
The complaint
Miss P complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
Around mid-2021, Miss P was looking for new ways to invest her money. She saw an advert 
on a social media platform for a company offering investment services, clicked the link and 
filled in an online enquiry form. She then received a phone call from someone who said they 
worked for the investment company, and discussed their trading platform and the services 
they provided. And, as Miss P was happy to invest, she was then transferred to someone 
who said they were an account manager at the investment company.
The manager asked Miss P to download software so they could access her computer and 
guide her through opening the accounts she needed to start investing, which she did. And, 
following the managers instructions, Miss P then made a number of payments from 
accounts with other banks to the accounts she had opened. Miss P was also given log-in 
details for the investment companys trading platform, which showed her investment and the 
profits she was making.
After a few months, the trading platform showed Miss P had made a significant profit and so 
she asked to withdraw some of the money. The manager then told her she needed to pay 
more money in to be able to withdraw her profits and, as she didnt have enough money for 
these additional payments, suggested she take out loans to get the money. Miss P then took 
out two loans, but some of the payments to transfer the money from the loans were blocked 
by the other banks so the manager suggested Miss P open an account with Revolut and 
send the money via there. Miss P then opened an account with Revolut and made three 
payments from it, as set out below:
Date Details Amount
20 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £2,720
25 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
25 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £2,550
Unfortunately, we now know the investment company was a scam.
The scam was uncovered as the investment company stopped responding to her calls and 
emails after Miss P made this last payment. The investment companys website also 
disappeared and Miss P was unable to log-in to the trading platform anymore. So she 
reported the payments to Revolut as fraud and asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Revolut investigated but said it had shown Miss P warnings about possible scams and had 
done all it could to try to recover the money she had lost. So it said it had done everything it 
could to protect her and didnt agree to refund the payments. Miss P wasnt satisfied with 
Revoluts response, so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Miss P and Revolut a provisional decision on 24 August 2023, setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be 
responsible for those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Miss P authorised the payments. She accepts she made them 
herself, as instructed to by the scammers. So while I recognise that she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to follow 
her instructions and process the payments. So Miss P isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Miss Ps account safe.
The first payment Miss P made wasnt for what Id consider to be a particularly large amount. 
And shed opened the account specifically to make these payments, so there wasnt any 
previous account activity for Revolut to compare the payment to. So I think its reasonable 
that Revolut didnt identify this first payment as unusual or out of character for Miss P or take 
any further action before allowing it to go through.
The second payment Miss P made was for a larger amount, was the second payment made 
to a new payee in a few days, and was significantly larger than the first payment to that 
payee. So I think Revolut should have identified that Miss P was at risk of financial harm as 
a result of it.
But even if Revolut had intervened and given Miss P more of a warning about the type of 
scam she could be falling victim to, I dont think it would have made a difference or 
prevented Miss P from losing her money.
Before making the payments from her Revolut account, Miss P had made a number of 
payments from an account with another bank, but this other bank had then refused to allow 
any further payments to cryptocurrency exchanges due to concerns about fraud. Miss P had 
also had her account with a previous cryptocurrency exchange closed due to fraud 
concerns. She had been asked to mislead her bank about the circumstances surrounding 
the payments she had made. And she was aware the investment company wasnt regulated 
by the FCA. But she still continued to make payments to the investment company, and even 
opened new accounts in order to do so.
So even if Revolut had done what wed expect and intervened here to give Miss P a warning 
about the type of scam she could be falling victim to, I think she would still have continued 
making the payments. And so I dont think anything we would expect Revolut to have done 
would have prevented this scam, or that it would then be fair to require it to refund the 
money Miss P lost.
Ive also considered whether Revolut did enough to try to recover the money Miss P lost, 
once it had been told about the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to 
try to recover the money from the bank it was sent to. But the bank the money was sent to 
has said the funds were moved on almost immediately after they were paid into the account, and before Revolut was told about the scam. So I dont think anything we would reasonably 
expect Revolut to have done could have recovered the money Miss P lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss P has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to her. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Revolut has acted unreasonably or that anything I 
would reasonably have expected it to do would have prevented this scam. So I dont think it 
would be fair to require Revolut to refund the money Miss P has lost.
I said Id consider anything further Miss P and Revolut sent in following the provisional 
decision, provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss P and Revolut responded to the provisional decision saying they accepted it, and 
neither provided any further evidence or arguments.
So, as neither Miss P or Revolut had anything further to add, I still think the conclusions I set 
out in the provisional decision were correct  and for the same reasons. I still dont think 
anything we would expect Revolut to have done would have prevented this scam, or that it 
would be fair to require it to refund the money Miss P lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman