DRN-1094766
 
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about his attempt to make a contribution into his personal pension with 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (the Pru) in 2016. He says the Pru prevented 
him from doing so, failed to inform him about an alternative contribution he could have made 
annually from 2016 and therefore caused him a lost investment opportunity.
What happened
Mr C refers to having sold a property in 2016 and having, as a result, around £276,000 at his 
disposal. He says he wished to use part of this as a contribution into his pension at the time 
 he has referred to using around £150,000 in this respect and/or to purchase an annuity.
Mr C says the Pru did not allow him to contribute the £150,000 (plus) lump sum into his 
pension, when he tried to do so in 2016. The Pru says it accepted new pension investments 
only through a policyholders financial adviser but Mr C approached it directly, so his request 
was considered by a financial planning partner (the partner) in this context. 
The Pru referred to the partner Mr C spoke to in 2016 and to her notes of the contact (at the 
time). It also obtained comments from her in terms of what she recalls about the contact. Her 
notes  and her recollection  say Mr C was told that he could not make the lump sum 
contribution he wished to make because he had no earnings/income at the time. Her notes 
(and her recollection) also say he was being advised by an Independent Financial Adviser 
(IFA) at the time. She recalls offering Mr C a meeting and that he declined because he 
chose to consult his IFA.
Mr C says he learnt through the Pru, in 2019, that an alternative was available to him at the 
time, to contribute a maximum amount of £3,600 per year (from 2016) into the pension. He 
claims the Pru did not advise him of this in 2016 and that it gave him the impression nothing 
could be done about his wish to contribute into the pension. He says this misguidance or 
lack of advice has cost him the lost opportunity to use these maximum annual contributions, 
from 2016, to build his pension further.
The partner recalls that she mentioned the maximum contribution amount  in the absence 
of earnings  when she spoke to Mr C and she claims that she conveyed this to him as 
information, not advice. The Pru says it did not advise Mr C and was not his advisor  
especially as it was/is its policy not to duplicate the role of advisor where a policyholder 
already has an IFA. It says the partners reference to the maximum contribution amount (in 
the absence of earnings) was accurate information and that it was then Mr Cs responsibility 
to take advice from his IFA on how to proceed. It notes that Mr C took no further action at the 
time.
Mr C raised another complaint issue with the Pru, directly related to the service he received 
from it during his enquiries in 2019. The matter appears to have been settled with 
compensation to Mr C, but the 2016 related complaint remains in dispute.One of our investigators looked into the complaint, concluded that it should not be upheld 
and broadly agreed with the Prus position in the matter. Overall, he took the view that Mr C 
appears to have been given information by the partner about the alternative contribution 
option; that it amounted to the provision of information, not regulated advice, so the Pru is 
not responsible in the context of advice; and that the information he was given was accurate.
Mr C disagrees with this outcome and maintains his position (and arguments) in the 
complaint. In particular, he vehemently disputes the partners claim that she informed him 
about the alternative contribution option and he says he would have acted upon that 
alternative if he was told about it. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not seen evidence that the Pru gave Mr C regulated advice or that it was obliged to 
give him such advice in relation to his pension. I consider this to be an important finding in 
the complaint, as it addresses his core issue about not being aware of the alternative 
contribution option.
I acknowledge that his request to make a lump sum contribution  of around £150,000  in 
2016 is also a complaint issue. I do not consider it to be the core issue and Mr C has made 
comments to us which support this view. The Pru made a fair decision to decline this 
request. In the context of the tax relief benefit associated with Mr Cs pension, the relevant 
rules did not permit such a contribution. If he had earnings, the size of the contribution would 
have been significantly beyond his annual contribution allowance of £40,000. It appears that 
he did not have earnings in 2016, if so the alternative of a maximum contribution of £3,600 
per year applied and that is substantially less than £150,000.
In terms of the alternative contribution option, I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling in 
maintaining that the partner did not inform him about it  and I understand his reasons. 
However, I also understand the investigators assessment of available evidence and his 
finding, on balance, that she did. Irrespective of this debate, the primary question appears to 
be whether (or not) the Pru held a position in which it was obliged to inform Mr C about the 
alternative in the course of either providing information or providing advice.
As I said above, the notion of the Pru providing advice to Mr C is not supported by evidence. 
I have not seen a basis upon which to conclude that it provided an advisory service to him. 
The same applies to grounds on which to conclude he was advised by the Pru. The 
regulators definition of investment advice, in summary, involves a firm conveying the merits 
of a particular investment action/inaction to a client. I have not seen evidence of the Pru 
informing Mr C about the merits of taking or not taking a particular action with his pension. 
Both parties appear to agree that information was provided to Mr C; but whilst the Pru says it 
included reference to the alternative maximum contribution, he says it did not; and his 
underlying argument is that an obligation was breached by the Pru because it did not inform 
him about the alternative. 
In terms of the Pru having an obligation to provide information to Mr C about his pension, 
this would likely have first existed at the outset of the pension  whereby the Pru would have 
been expected to provide information relevant to its pension product. Thereafter, it is not 
beyond good reasoning to say information provided would more likely (than not) be defined 
by the nature of any enquiry/enquiries from Mr C  especially in the non-advisory context 
that existed in his case.Given that Mr C was looking into making contributions into his pension  and given the 
absence of a telephone recording of the contact in 2016  it is reasonable to consider that, in 
response, the Pru would have limited itself to answering his specific questions; or it would 
have given him general information related to his enquiry; or it would have done something 
in between. Its primary duty would arguably have been to ensure it gave accurate (and clear) 
information and I have not seen evidence that it breached this duty. 
I do not have enough evidence to determine whether (or not) Mr C was told about the 
alternative contribution option. As I said above, I understand the investigators finding that he 
was but I also understand Mr Cs objection to that finding. Equally  or perhaps more  
important is that I do not have enough evidence to determine whether (or not) the Pru was 
obliged to give Mr C this information during his telephone contact in 2016. 
There are two disputing accounts on this and there is no telephone recording evidence to tip 
the balance  because the contact happened through the partners mobile telephone. If, for 
example, Mr C made a direct request to contribute £150,000 into the pension, was told by 
the Pru (in its non-advisory role) that he could not and he soon thereafter terminated the call, 
I would not consider that the Pru should have informed him about options. If, on the other 
hand, he made his enquiry, was told he could not make the lump sum contribution and then 
he enquired further into the sort of contribution(s) permitted in his pension, I would consider 
that the Pru should have informed him about options.
Available evidence is not as clear as I would need to conclude whether (or not) the nature of 
the contact was such that the Pru was obliged to give Mr C information about the alternative 
contribution option. It says it did and Mr C says it did not, but it is Mr Cs complaint and there 
is not enough evidence to support his position, so I do not have a basis to uphold it. His best 
argument includes reference to the Pru not mentioning the partners claim earlier in 2019 
and not until after submission of his complaint, but that does not automatically mean the 
partners claim is untrue.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr C's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision 
before 21July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman