DRN-3626582
Complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt pay her a refund after she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
Miss M has an account with Lloyds. In January 2022, she used that account to make a 
payment of £6,000 to purchase a campervan shed found for sale online. After she made the 
payment and saw the vehicle in person, Miss M decided that the sale was a scam. She sent 
a message to the seller to ask for her payment to be refunded but this request was refused. 
She promptly notified Lloyds. It considered what had happened under the terms of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. Under the terms of that code, it agreed to 
refund Miss M 50% of the money she lost to the scam on the basis that it hadnt displayed 
an effective warning when the payment instruction was made.
However, it didnt think that it needed to refund her in full. It didnt consider Miss M had met 
her requisite level of care under the code. It said that shed made the payment without 
having a reasonable basis for believing that the person she was transacting with was 
legitimate.
Miss M disagreed with Lloyds conclusion and so referred her complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who broadly agreed with the conclusions reached by 
Lloyds. She didnt think that Miss M had done adequate checks before agreeing to purchase 
the vehicle and so she considered it fair and reasonable for Lloyds to not refund her in full.
Miss M disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Miss M authorised this payment. However, Lloyds has signed up to the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). 
Under that code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of a scam like this one. There are a limited set of circumstances set out in the code in 
which a firm can choose not to fully reimburse its customer and Lloyds has argued that one 
of those exceptions are applicable in this instance.
It is for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. The relevant exception here is 
where the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
I agree with Lloyds that Miss M made this payment without having a reasonable basis for 
believing that it was in connection with a legitimate sale. It follows that its fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to not compensate her in full. I say that because Miss M has told us 
that she didnt carry out any checks prior to making the payment and, although she did see 
the campervan in person, this was only after shed made the payment. The exchange of 
messages between Miss M and the seller dont suggest that shed asked for much 
information about the vehicle either. 
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Miss M has fallen victim to a 
scam. But the CRM code sets out standards that are expected of both firms and customers. 
Im satisfied that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the code and so Lloyds 
can fairly and reasonably hold her partially liable for the loss here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman