DRN-3853223
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement taken with First 
Response Finance Ltd (FRF). She also says she was given incorrect information about 
scrapping the car.
What happened
In December 2021 Ms M acquired a used car funded in part with a hire purchase agreement 
with FRF. The car was around eight and a half years old and had covered around 84,610 
miles.
Unfortunately, around June 2022 the car broke down. It was recovered to a manufacturers 
garage who inspected the car. It noted issues with a split in the main turbo hose. It also said 
the engine was making excessive noise. It said it couldnt identify the reason behind this, but 
said it was likely due to an issue with the timing chain.
The garage said it would cost around £375 for further inspection, and estimated the repair 
cost at over £4,000.
Ms M says her warranty company would repair the issue with the turbo hose, but it wouldnt 
approve the further repairs without the engine being stripped so it could see photos of what 
had happened.
Ms M complained to FRF. It issued its final response in July 2022. It said, in summary, that 
there was no evidence the faults were present when the car was supplied. It said it could 
look at offering an interest free loan for some of the cost of repair, or Ms M could pay to have 
the engine stripped for further investigation.
Ms M then says she spoke to FRF who told her she should sell the car or get it scrapped. On 
26 July 2022 Ms M arranged for the car to be scrapped.
FRF then said it had never authorised this. But, two days later, it gave Ms M permission to 
scrap the car.
Ms M brought the complaint to our service. She said the car shouldnt have gone wrong 
when it did. She said this had a big impact on her and her family. She said shed had to pay 
out for taxis when the car went wrong. And she said she felt she had lost out because FRF 
had told her to scrap the car.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He explained he didnt think it was likely the faults with 
the car were present or developing when it was supplied. And he said after listening to 
phone calls between FRF and Ms M he didnt think FRF had told her to scrap the car before 
she did.
Ms M remained unhappy. She sent phone records which she said were from when FRF told 
her to scrap the car. Our investigator requested some further calls from FRF, but said he still 
didnt think scrapping the car was discussed. So, he explained this didnt change his opinion.
Ms M remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
I sent Ms M and FRF a provisional decision on 25 November 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Ms M complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Ms Ms complaint about FRF.
Ms M has complained about the quality of the car and then the disputed advice around 
scrapping it. So, Ill consider these points in turn.
Quality of the car
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  FRF here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider here that Ms Ms car was over eight years old and 
had covered over 84,000 miles. The price she paid also represented a significant discount 
on what the car wouldve cost new.
So, I dont think a reasonable person would expect the car to be in the same condition as a 
newer car with less mileage. But, I think they would expect it to be roadworthy and safe, and 
to have trouble free motoring for at least a short period.
It doesnt seem in dispute here that Ms Ms car developed faults. Ive seen an email from the 
garage who saw the car confirming a split in the main turbo hose and that there was a 
suspected issue with the timing chain.
So, Ive gone on to consider if I think this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
Ms M had the car for roughly six months before these issues occurred. She confirmed to 
FRF the mileage of the car was around 93,000 when it went wrong, so she was able to 
complete over 8,000 miles in it.
There is something of a lack of evidence here. But, on balance, I havent seen enough to 
make me think its likely the faults were present or developing at the point of supply. I say 
this as I dont think Ms M wouldve been able to complete the mileage she did in the car if 
this was the case.
Ive also considered whether the car was reasonably durable. But, considering the age, price 
and mileage the car had when she acquired it, I think a reasonable person might have 
expected it to need repairs after covering over 8,000 miles. So, it follows I havent seen 
enough to make me think the car wasnt durable.
It follows all of this that Im satisfied the car was of reasonable quality at the point Ms M 
acquired it.
ScrappageMs M says she was advised by FRF that she had no option but to either scrap the car or 
privately sell it. FRF says it didnt give Ms M advice nor permission to scrap the car.
Our investigator said in none of the conversations Ms M had with FRF was it suggested the 
car could be sold for scrappage. Im not sure I fully agree with this.
Ive listened to all of the calls from the time Ms M mentions. Having done so, Im satisfied 
one of these contains the conversation Ms M refers to. I say this as Ms M told us the call 
took place while she was on holiday, and this is mentioned on this specific call.
Here, various things are discussed. The advisor talks through getting the car looked into 
further to see if the warranty company would repair it, but Ms M seems like she is not willing 
to pay for this. And the advisor suggests Ms M goes to a non-manufacturers garage for 
repair quotes to see if this is cheaper. Ms M seems reluctant to do this as she doesnt think it 
will be less expensive.
During this conversation, while discussing various options and what would happen if these 
werent viable the advisor says:
If were not able to look around for cheaper quotes were left with minimal options
wed potentially then have to look at selling the vehicle for spares or repairs or selling the 
vehicle in its current condition and reducing the balance
Its discussed with Ms M that she could look into selling the car. The advisor says:
Do you want to have a look around and see what you could sell the vehicle for in its current 
condition?
Next best option is to look at how much you could get for it and see where that leaves the 
account 
Why dont you ask around, it doesnt need to be done today
Maybe ring around, maybe even look at (popular car buying website) and explain what the 
issues are
Ive very carefully thought about this conversation. As above, I dont think its fair to say 
scrapping the car wasnt discussed. But, Im satisfied, at this point, the conversation was 
open ended about Ms Ms options. I dont agree with Ms M that she was told she had no 
choice but to scrap the car.
The conversation ends with Ms M saying she will see what people will offer for the car. I 
know Ms M feels very strongly about this point. But, Im satisfied during this conversation 
that Ms M wasnt advised to scrap the car. And Im satisfied she wasnt given permission to 
do so either.
Ive also considered on another call from the same day Ms M is advised to go to a dealer 
and find out what the car is worth in its current state and then discuss further with FRF to 
see if it could refinance an agreement. The advisor says to take the car to a dealer to see if 
she could sell it and says:
I would really recommend seeing what you could get for it in its current state
I really want to explore every option we haveOn a further call on the same day its advised by FRF that Ms M could get the repair done to 
the turbo hose that the warranty company would cover. Its then recommended more than 
once that she should then get further quotes from other garages that might be cheaper to 
repair the remaining issues. FRF explains this cost might be dramatically different from the 
main dealer quote. Ms M was told she could then pursue the warranty claim or take a further 
loan with FRF to cover the repair cost of up to £1,700. On this call FRF also says it could 
offer an initial further loan to cover the cost of stripping the car.
On balance, Im satisfied Ms M was given various options to look into for the car and it was 
her decision to scrap it. Im also satisfied Ms M did this without permission nor advice from 
FRF.
I appreciate FRF did eventually give Ms M permission to scrap the car, but it appears this 
was two days after she had already signed the car over to be scrapped.
It follows I dont think FRF needs to take any further action here.
Its worth pointing out to FRF here that I wouldve liked to have seen the options of voluntary 
termination or voluntary surrender being discussed with Ms M. But in fairness, I do 
appreciate conversations were still ongoing with her.
It appears Ms M will owe a significant balance to FRF and has been left without a car. Id like 
to politely remind it to treat her situation with forbearance and due consideration, taking into 
account the obligations set out in the consumer credit sourcebook (CONC) if she is in 
financial difficulty.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence. 
FRF didnt respond to the provisional decision. Ms M came back and said the decision was 
completely unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about all of the information about this complaint again. And Ive considered what 
Ms M said in response to my provisional decision. I understand how strongly she feels about 
this issue. But, having reconsidered the complaint, I still think it should not be upheld. This is 
due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman