DRN-3223388
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd unreasonably refused to pay her 
claim under her pet policy.
What happened
Mrs Hs dog required a cruciate ligament operation and Mrs H made a claim to BBI for the 
vet fees in carrying out this operation.
BBI said that because Mrs Hs dog suffered from a luxating patella before the policy was 
taken out by Mrs H, the cruciate ligament issues was consequently pre-existing. Therefore, 
her claim was excluded as the policy didnt pay for any pre-existing conditions. 
Mrs Hs vet disagreed and explained why he didnt think this was the case with the cruciate 
ligament issue suffered by Mrs Hs dog. BBI wouldnt change its stance, so Mrs H brought 
her complaint to us. The investigator thought it should be upheld. BBI disagreed so Mrs Hs 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this this complaint. Ill now explain why.
This policy in common with almost all pet policies, doesnt pay claims for an illness or injury 
that relates to a pre-existing condition, or an associated condition. 
There is no dispute that Mrs Hs dog did suffer from a patella luxation issue before Mrs H 
brought this policy. Its clearly there in her dogs vet history. 
Whilst BBI said the vet history explains Mrs H dog might go on to develop arthritis, I havent 
seen any evidence that issues to do with cruciate ligament rupture means the dog has 
arthritis. So, theres no evidence before me that shows there is any connection there.
Mrs Hs vet explained fully why the incident of patella luxation wasnt related to the cruciate 
ligament issue. He said the following:
Grade 1 medial patella luxation is an incidental finding and is not considered to be 
an abnormal or diseased state. Grade 1 medial patella luxation is never associated 
with clinical signs, this was the case for [name of dog]. There is no evidence that 
patella luxation is a causative factor in canine cranial cruciate ligament disease.
The TPLO surgery was for management of [name of dog] cranial cruciate ligament 
rupture which was definitively the cause of [name of dog] clinical signs. I am certain 
that the patella luxation was not the cause of [name of dog] lameness. 
In response BBI said that the long-term effects of a luxating patella will cause the elements 
of the stifle joint to degenerate and patella luxation will increase the internal stress in the 
stifle joint and pre-dispose an animal to cranial cruciate ligament disease. But it failed to 
provide any evidence to explain this conclusion from a veterinarian point of view. And given 
the view of Mrs Hs vet to the contrary and the fact he is a vet, Im therefore much persuaded 
by her vets view on the matter. Further the vet history notes the patella groove was 
reasonable which doesnt help BBIs view that the patella issue was causative or associated 
with this cruciate ligament rupture. 
Therefore, I dont BBI has shown that the luxating patella issue has any causal link with the 
cruciate ligament rupture operation as it hasnt provided any evidence to counter that of Mrs 
Hs vet. So, it follows that I dont consider the cruciate ligament issue was a pre-existing 
condition, or even an associated condition.
As a result, I dont consider the refusal by BBI to consider Mrs Hs claim was reasonable or 
fair. I consider it should now pay Mrs Hs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, adding interest if Mrs H has already paid her vet.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to do the following:
Pay Mrs Hs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of her 
policy.
If Mrs H has already paid her vet costs, it should add interest of 8% simple per year 
from the date Mrs H paid her vet costs to the date it refunds her.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Mrs H for HMRC purposes. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman