DRN-1645434
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a charge she incurred when her 
account went withdrawn. Shes also unhappy she couldnt open a basic account over the 
telephone.
What happened
On 4 February 2020 a child benefit payment credited Miss S Barclays current account. The 
same day a charge of £20.25 debited her account, which related to her use of her overdraft 
between 13 December 2019 and 12 January 2020. So, that charge ended up being 
deducted from Miss S account balance, which meant she wasnt able to withdraw her full 
child benefit payment amount.
Miss S wasnt happy about this. She felt she was entitled to access to her child benefit 
payment as it was needed to support her and her child. So, on 5 February 2020, she 
contacted Barclays to ask it to waive the charge it had applied. During this call Miss S asked 
Barclays to open a basic account on her behalf over the telephone. She said shed 
attempted to do so using her mobile telephone and her app. But she hadnt been successful.
Barclays told Miss S it would allow her to withdraw the full amount of her child benefit 
payment  even though she had insufficient funds. And it explained shed need to attend a 
branch in order to open the account she wanted. Barclays offered Miss S an appointment to 
discuss her account application on 24 February 2020, which was the first available branch 
appointment. But, as she wanted to open her account sooner, Miss S decided to visit a 
branch in efforts to expedite her application.
Miss S said she attended a number of branches but was unsuccessful in opening the 
account she wanted as she didnt have an appointment. She said she incurred unnecessary 
travel costs as a result, which she asked Barclays to refund. And she told Barclays she also 
wanted it to waive the overdraft charge it had applied because she thought thats what it had 
agreed to do. 
But Barclays declined to reimburse Miss S travel expenses and it wouldnt waive the fee 
shed incurred. Miss S was unhappy with this and thought shed been treated unfairly by 
Barclays. So, she complained. 
When Barclays responded to Miss S complaint it explained its policy was to only open basic 
accounts over the telephone and it said it had offered her the first available appointment in 
efforts to facilitate her account opening request. Barclays also informed Miss S it hadnt 
agreed to refund the overdraft charge shed incurred. And it explained it wasnt willing to do 
so because the charge had been applied in line with the terms of her account. It also said it 
had refunded valid charges shed incurred in the past and had advised that no further 
refunds would be considered. So, Barclays didnt feel it had made an error and it didnt 
uphold Miss S complaint. Miss S was dissatisfied with Barclays response to her complaint  she thought her concerns 
werent being taken seriously. And, as Barclays wouldnt resolve her complaint in the way 
she wanted, she referred it to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and, while they empathised with Miss S, 
didnt think that Barclays had acted unfairly in dealing with this complaint. Overall, they 
werent persuaded it needed to do anything more. So, they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. But Miss S disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss S feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from what 
shes said to both our service and Barclays. And I can appreciate that she was caused 
distress and inconvenience by what happened. 
Ive read and considered everything shes said about her complaint and Ive focused on what 
I feel are the key issues. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent 
considered it. Its just that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think 
is a fair and reasonable outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think Barclays made a mistake, or treated Mis S unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and 
Barclays have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Miss S will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
The first part of Miss S complaint is about Barclays refusal to refund the overdraft charge it 
applied. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
Ive seen these terms and conditions that apply to Miss S account, which clearly outline the 
fees Barclays can charge for the use of an overdraft facility. And, having seen the status of 
Miss S account, I can see it was overdrawn during the period covered by this overdraft 
charge. 
Barclays was entitled to apply the overdraft fee for the period where Miss S was using her 
overdraft facility. And Im satisfied that the charge she incurred was applied by Barclays in 
line with the terms and conditions of her account. So, I cant fairly conclude that Barclays 
acted unfairly in applying a charge here.
Miss S believes that Barclays agreed to waive the overdraft charge. But I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that this is what it agreed. From the records Barclays 
provided our service I can see it decided to allow Miss S to access the full child benefit 
payment that had credited her account  even though this caused her to exceed her 
arranged overdraft limit. 
Its clear that Barclays took this decision since this was a benefit payment for Miss S and her 
child. I think that was a fair and reasonable approach for it to adopt here. And Im not 
persuaded that in allowing Miss S to withdraw the full child benefit payment amount Barclays 
was agreeing to waive the overdraft fee it had applied.I can see that, historically, Barclays has waived valid charges Miss S has incurred. I think 
this demonstrates that its acted fairly and sympathetically following the application of 
overdraft charges in the past. And Barclays has explained this is why it isnt willing to refund 
the charge it applied on this occasion. I dont think this is unfair. 
Ive seen evidence that Barclays has offered Miss S the opportunity to discuss her financial 
situation with its financial assistance team on a number of occasions over the years. 
Barclays made this suggestion to enable it to understand whether Miss S was experiencing 
financial hardship.
From reviewing the records Barclays provided here I cant see Miss S has responded to 
Barclays offer of help. I can appreciate that she may have found it difficult and embarrassing 
to discuss her financial situation with Barclays. But it would only be able to understand the 
extent of any financial hardship Miss S might have been experiencing if she discussed this 
with it. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Barclays applied the 
overdraft charge in line with the terms of Miss S account. And I think it treated her as 
positively and sympathetically as it could based on what it knew about her financial position. 
Im not persuaded Barclays agreed to waive the overdraft charge it applied here. So, I wont 
be asking it to refund it.
Ill turn now to Miss S complaint that Barclays wouldnt open the account she requested over 
the telephone.
Barclays procedure in opening the account Miss S wanted is that an application must be 
made in branch. I appreciate that was frustrating for Miss S  she wanted to open an 
account remotely and had tried to do so. But Barclays is entitled to determine its own policy 
in relation to how it opens accounts. And we cant comment on whether a business policy is 
right or tell it that its policy should be changed. 
In the individual circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that the reason Barclays 
couldnt assist Miss S in opening her account over the telephone was due to it following its 
policy. So, I cant conclude that it did anything wrong.
Im satisfied Barclays offered Miss S the earliest available appointment in efforts to assist her 
with her account opening request. I understand that this was a time sensitive issue for Miss 
S, which led to her needing to attend a branch sooner. And I can see she had to visit a 
number of branches in order to try to open an account. But I cant hold Barclays responsible 
for that. It had told her it couldnt open her account without her attending an appointment in 
branch. 
It was Miss S choice to attend the branches she visited without an appointment. I appreciate 
this caused her to incur travel expenses. But I think Miss S could have mitigated her costs by 
attending a branch once shed been able to secure an appointment. It follows that I cant 
fairly ask Barclays to reimburse her travel expenses in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint.
I realise Miss S will be disappointed with this decision. But for the reasons given Im not 
persuaded Barclays treated her unfairly. Im satisfied its acted reasonably. So, I cant uphold 
this complaint. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Miss S dispute with 
Barclays informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss S any further with this.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman