DRN-3160192
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Zopa Limited acted irresponsibly when it provided her with two 
loans in 2015 and 2016. 
Background
Miss B borrowed two unsecured loans from Zopa in late 2015 and again about six months 
later in early to mid-2016. The first loan was for £2,000 and was to be repaid over 36 
months. The second loan was for a considerably higher amount, £20,000 and was also to be 
repaid over 36 months.
Miss B has said that at the time both loans were provided to her she was struggling to 
maintain her finances and was gambling excessively. She doesnt think that Zopa carried out 
sufficient checks for either loan, as she believes if it had, it wouldve seen she was already in 
a lot of debt and would struggle to repay these. Miss B has said she has suffered a lot of 
worry and ill health as a result of taking out the loans.
Zopa has said that at the time of both applications it did carry out sufficient checks. It said 
that Miss B completed detailed income and expenditure forms at the time and had had a 
significant wage increase between loan one and two, which is why the larger second loan 
was approved. In addition to the income and expenditure form Miss B completed, Zopa has 
said it also checked her credit file at the time of both applications and didnt see any 
indication that she was struggling to maintain her finances or existing outgoings. In addition, 
Zopa has said that it is neither necessary, nor possible, for it to check the bank statements of 
every person who applies for credit from it. 
Miss B disagreed with Zopas findings and brought her complaint to our service. One of 
investigators looked into her case and found that Zopa shouldve done more thorough 
checks based on the information it found in Miss Bs credit file. He recommended that the 
complaint be upheld. 
Zopa disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint so its been passed to me for consideration. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with the investigator and for much the same reasons. Ive 
set out my explanation below.
Its important to clarify that while businesses are obliged to run checks before they agree to 
provide credit to consumers, there are no fixed set of checks that must be completed and the 
sorts of checks that are run will vary from business to business. 
However, there is an obligation on credit providers to ensure that any loan nor other form of 
credit that is provided to consumers is both affordable and sustainable. So sometimes it may 
be necessary to run more detailed checks in order to ensure that is the case for the specific 
individual applying for credit.
In Miss Bs case Zopa ran the basic credit checks and has said that on the back of these it 
was satisfied that both loans would be affordable and sustainable. However, having 
reviewed the information available to Zopa at the time I disagree. I think it shouldve been 
apparent that Miss B may have issues meeting her repayments long term, and that 
additional more detailed checks shouldve been carried out. 
I say this because at the time the first loan was taken in 2015, Miss Bs credit file shows that 
she had taken out six other unsecured loans over the previous 12 months. And three of 
these were still outstanding with a large debt still owed. 
Zopa has said that the loans were being well maintained, and there were no arrears on Miss 
Bs credit file. But I think the fact that Miss B had applied for so much credit, over such a 
short space of time and from different providers, shouldve made Zopa ask more questions 
about her finances in order to ensure she was managing them effectively before providing  
her with more credit. And if Zopa had done this, and had asked for Miss Bs bank 
statements, which is a relatively common request from potential credit providers, it wouldve 
seen Miss B was gambling excessively at the time and that the proceeds of the previous 
loans had likely been used for this purpose. 
Zopa has said that it is not obliged to ask for bank statements and any expectation that it 
would do this for every application is unrealistic and unworkable. But theres no expectation 
here that it would do this on every application it received. However, for those applications 
where there may be an indication that a consumer is struggling to manage their existing 
obligations it may well provide useful information and should be something Zopa would 
consider doing. And if it had done this in 2015, when Miss B applied for the first loan, I think 
it wouldve resulted in her application being declined on the basis that the loan was likely 
unaffordable and she would potentially struggle to make her monthly repayments over the 
course of the loan. This is because at the same time Miss B applied for the first loan she was 
spending a significant amount of her monthly income on gambling; for example in the month 
just before she applied for the loan she spent £1,500 on gambling despite the fact that her 
net pay that month was only £1,654. 
In regard to the second, substantially larger, loan Zopa has said that this was approved 
because Miss B had had a change of circumstances and her annual income had increased 
as a result of her completing a professional qualification. 
While I accept that Miss Bs income did increase around this time, her annual salary 
increased from £24,000 to £36,000, Zopa itself notes that Miss B had taken out more credit 
elsewhere between loan one and this loan. And looking at her statements its clear that she 
was still struggling to manage her finances effectively and was gambling in a compulsive and 
damaging way. The fact that this loan wasnt sustainable became apparent when Miss B 
started missing payments in early 2017.
Therefore I believe that there was enough evidence on Miss Bs credit file at the time of both 
applications to indicate that she may be experiencing financial stress and which shouldve 
prompted Zopa to ask for additional clarification as to how she was managing her existing 
debt before providing her access to more credit. And if it had asked for this information at the 
time it wouldnt have provided her with either loan. So, I am upholding Miss Bs complaint. Putting things right
To settle Miss Bs complaint Zopa Limited should:
Refund any interest and charges Miss B has paid in relation to both loans. Zopa 
should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each payment, if there were 
any, to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file regarding these      
two agreements.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to deduct tax from this interest. Zopa must give Miss B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss B asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Miss Bs complaint against Zopa Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman