DRN-3103611
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as A, complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont 
refund the money it lost through what it now believes was a scam. Miss B, who is the 
director of A, brings this complaint on As behalf.  
What happened
In mid-2020, Miss B contacted a company, which Ill refer to as H, to buy furniture for 
A and commission some design work. A paid H £1,000. Miss B says H then 
cancelled a scheduled visit and replaced this with a video call. Following this, a 
designer from H did visit the premises to discuss the work A wanted done. They 
brought along some fabric options and took measurements. Miss B says H said 
theyd complete the design shortly  but they missed the deadline. As a result, she 
had to cancel scheduled building work. After that, Miss B arranged several meetings 
with H  but they missed or cancelled these. 
Unable to get a response from H, Miss B contacted As bank, Santander, about what 
had happened. It wouldnt refund the money A had paid, so she referred the matter to 
our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Santander should refund A. On balance, she 
wasnt persuaded that A had fallen victim to a scam. 
Miss B has requested an ombudsmans decision. Shes unhappy as H have now 
dissolved, so A cant get the money back from them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that A authorised the payment to H. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But 
there are some circumstances where wed expect the bank to refund (all or some of) 
the loss, even if the customer authorised the payment. So Ive considered whether, in 
all the circumstances, it would be fair and reasonable to direct Santander to refund A.
Santander is a signatory of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the Code). 
Subject to the terms of the Code, Santander might be expected to refund A if it fell 
victim to an authorised push payment scam. Such as if A transferred money to 
another person for what it believed to be legitimate purposes, but which were in fact 
fraudulent. But the Code doesnt apply to private civil disputes. So, if H was a 
legitimate supplier, and A didnt receive the goods and services it paid for, the Code 
wouldnt apply. Ive therefore considered whether its more likely than not that H 
intended to defraud A.
On balance, I consider it more likely that H were a legitimate company. I say this 
because they were a limited company, correctly registered with Companies House, 
which had their own premises and staff (such as the designer Miss B has told us 
visited her). Thats what Id expect to see from a company intending to trade 
legitimately. It adds a level of visibility to who is running the company, and how that is 
being done. And taking these measures would incur costs. H also put resource into 
using television programmes, magazines, and celebrity endorsements to advertise. I 
agree with our investigator that a fraudster would be unlikely to do this as theyd want 
to maximise their return. Additionally, reviews online suggest that H were delivering 
on some orders, rather than taking all their customers money without doing anything 
in return. All of this suggests H were set up with the intention to trade as a legitimate 
business.
Whilst H didnt provide the goods and services A was expecting from them, Im not 
persuaded theres enough to show they set out with an intent to defraud. It seems 
more likely that H couldnt keep up with the orders they received due to financial 
difficulty  which is supported by the fact they were wound up a few months later. It 
follows that I dont think A is entitled to a refund under the Code.
Ive also considered whether there is anything Santander ought to have done at the 
point of payment that would have prevented the loss. But I wouldnt reasonably have 
expected it to have anticipated that A was at risk of financial harm. Thats because I 
dont think the size and character of the payment would have reasonably appeared 
suspicious. And Im conscious that Santander has a duty to promptly follow 
authorised payment instructions. Overall, I dont think it could have foreseen and 
prevented As loss. 
So far as weve been made aware, A paid H via bank transfer. This payment method 
isnt protected by rights of recourse, such as the chargeback scheme or Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act, that might otherwise have allowed A to obtain a refund for 
the goods and services H didnt provide. I therefore dont think theres more 
Santander could or should have reasonably done after the payment had been made 
to recoup As loss.
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss B, who understandably feels aggrieved 
that her company has lost money and been disrupted due to Hs actions. But overall, Im not 
persuaded that Santander is at fault for what happened, nor that it should otherwise be held 
liable for As loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman