DRN-1099039
 
The complaint
Ms C and Mr T have complained to Elderbridge Limited that their secured loan should have 
been restructured after a payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint was upheld.
What happened
In 2006 Ms C and Mr T took out a £75,000 secured loan and at the same time applied for a 
five-year single premium PPI policy. The cost of the policy was £18,367.50 and as Ms C and 
Mr T didnt have the funds available to pay for the policy they borrowed an equivalent sum 
on top of their secured loan. This took their total loan amount to £93,367.50, plus interest.
The terms of the policy meant that if Ms C and Mr T didnt make a claim on it then theyd be 
able to claim the cash price (of £18,367.50) back at the end of the five-year term. They 
received a payment for that amount in August 2011.
In August 2016 Ms C and Mr T received a further £8,280.78 in respect of the policy, this time 
from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). That was redress following a 
complaint the PPI had been mis-sold by a mortgage broker.
Ms C and Mr T have made various complaints over the years but to be clear the only issue 
Im dealing with here is that their secured loan wasn't restructured in 2016 after the FSCS 
payment. Ms C and Mr T say theyre still paying the extra £155.19 a month towards the PPI 
even though the PPI cover ended in 2011, and theyve had a complaint upheld that it was 
mis-sold.
Our investigator explained that the loan couldnt be restructured because Ms C and Mr T had 
opted to have the payments made to them, rather than to the loan. Ms C and Mr T didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C and Mr T said The PPI of £18,367.50 is not a loan to us. Its just an insurance [] We 
are more that [sic] happy to pay towards the £75000 which we received. But the £18,367.50 
was a loan to Ms C and Mr T, the only difference is the money was immediately passed to 
the insurer to pay for the PPI policy theyd bought.
There are two different types of PPI; regular premium policies and single premium policies. 
Ms C and Mr Ts was a single premium PPI policy and this means they paid a one-off lump 
sum (in this case £18,367.50) for five years of cover. The amount quoted of £155.19 a 
month for the PPI is for the whole loan term (not just for the five years the PPI gave cover 
for) and that is to repay the actual amount borrowed to buy the PPI (£18,367.50) plus the 
interest charged on that amount. The only way Ms C and Mr T can stop paying the £155.19 a month towards the PPI is by 
repaying the PPI loan, as that payment is paying for the loan (plus interest) not a monthly 
premium for a policy. Whereas with a regular premium policy a customer can stop paying the 
premium at any time and cover will cease. The inflexibility of the single premium PPI policy is 
one reason why complaints are more likely to be upheld about those types of policy 
compared to regular premium PPI policies.
Ms C and Mr T need to separate out in their mind the PPI policy (which was mis-sold) and 
the loan that they took out to pay for the policy. The only way the loan can be restructured is 
for the PPI redress to be paid towards it. Ms C and Mr T say they werent told the cashback 
and redress had to be paid to the loan, and my telling them to do so would be rewarding the 
company. But thats not the case.
An easy way to look at it is that redress is designed to put a person in the position theyd be 
in if nothing had gone wrong. 
If Ms C and Mr T hadnt taken out their PPI policy then theyd have taken a £75,000 loan and 
have been paying £633.69 a month. But what they wouldnt have had was a lump sum 
payment of £18,367.50 in August 2011 and a further lump sum payment of £8,280.78 in 
August 2016. If the PPI was removed from the loan (so they didnt have to pay the extra 
£155.19 a month) without Ms C and Mr T giving those payments back then theyd be 
£26,648.28 better off.
Ms C and Mr T cant have both the £26,648.28 theyve received so far from the PPI in their 
pocket and not pay for it on the loan; its not free money. If Ms C and Mr T wanted to not pay 
the extra amount each month on their loan then they needed to have paid those sums off it.
Based on the original amount quoted of £155.19 to pay for the PPI (I cant consider any 
interest rate changes as part of this complaint) then Ms C and Mr T would have paid 
£26,071.92 towards the PPI on the 14th anniversary of taking it out which is June this year. 
Ms C and Mr T have already received more than that back in payments.
By August 2016 theyd already received £26,648.28 in PPI payments (between the cashback 
and the redress) at which point theyd have only paid £18,933.18 to the PPI policy loan. 
Whilst Ms C and Mr T will end up paying more to the policy loan if they leave it to run to 
term, thats because theyre paying interest on it. If theyd paid the PPI cashback off the loan 
at the time they received it, and then the redress off at the time they received that, then Ms C 
and Mr T should have been broadly back in the position they would have been in had PPI 
not been sold. As our investigator confirmed, I cant consider here if the redress amount was 
correct as it was calculated and paid by the FSCS.
The FSCS explained the position in its letter when it said Our application form gives the 
option of having compensation paid directly to your lender. This has the effect of reducing 
the balance on your account and preventing any further interest payable in respect of the 
payment protection insurance (PPI) premium. As you have chosen to have the 
compensation made payable to you rather than your lender, you may consider whether to 
apply all or part of the compensation towards reducing any loan you have, thus preventing 
any future interest payable in respect of the PPI premium.
For the reasons Ive explained Ms C and Mr Ts loan doesnt need to be (and in fact cant be) 
restructured as they opted to keep both the cashback and the redress rather than paying 
them to the PPI loan.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms C and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman