DRN-2630702
The complaint
Mr S complains that EUI Limited didnt apply the no claims bonus (NCB) protection to his 
motor insurance policy, when they should have.
What happened
Mr S says he contacted EUI in October 2019 to ask them to protect his no claims bonus for 
one of his cars. Mr S says the advisor at the time confirmed this had been done. Mr S then 
had a car accident in November 2019. When going through the claims process, Mr S 
realised his no claims bonus wasnt protected. Mr S says as a result of this, his insurance 
premium has increased each year and he wants EUI to honour his NCB.
Mr S also complains about conflicting information in an email sent by EUI about which of his 
cars had NCB protection.
EUI say despite several searches on their system, they couldnt find any records of Mr S 
making the call to them where protection for no claims was requested for the car Mr S refers 
to. EUI say there was a call between Mr S and one of their advisors in October 2019 where 
Mr S asked to remove the NCB protection for this car and include it on another car he had. 
EUI also acknowledged the email Mr S was sent and said that they didnt think it was unclear 
as the email didnt say all of Mr S cars included NCB protection. So, they didnt uphold Mr S 
complaint.
Unhappy with EUIs response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Mr S concerns. In summary, our investigator said after listening to the call 
recordings between Mr S and EUI, he couldnt find any evidence that Mr S had asked for his 
NCB to be protected for the car he refers to, prior to the accident. Our investigator also 
acknowledged EUI couldve been clearer in the email they sent to Mr S about the NCB 
protection and which of his cars had this included. However, he didnt think there had been 
any impact here. Mr S didnt agree with this. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has remained adamant that he told EUI to protect his NCB for the car he had an 
accident in. Mr S says he remembers having this conversation with an EUI advisor in 
October 2019, as it happened on a memorable day for him. Mr S says he doesnt remember 
the name of the advisor who he spoke to, but he remembers he was a male.
 
I can see from EUIs internal notes Mr S told them he remembers the call taking place on a 
day between 10 and 17 October 2019. EUI have sent us some call recordings between them 
and Mr S from October 2019, November 2019 and December 2019, which Ive listened to.
During one of the calls in early October, there was a conversation between Mr S and EUI 
about which of his cars hed like to have NCB protection. Mr S confirmed hed like his other 
car to have this and not the car he refers to in this complaint. The advisor then gave Mr S a 
new quote for the insurance for this car without NCB protection and Mr S confirmed this 
price was fine. So, I think it was clear during this call that Mr S didnt want the car he refers 
to in this complaint to have NCB protection.
EUI have attempted to find a call on their system between 10 and 17 October using some of 
Mr S details. EUI have provided a screenshot of this search and I can see no records are 
found for this period. EUI have also asked their IT department to locate any missing calls. 
However, unfortunately, they confirmed there were no additional telephone calls other than 
the ones EUI had already located.
Mr S says he remembers making the call to EUI during work hours, but he has been unable 
to provide us with a call recording due to data protection. We asked Mr S for any other 
information to show this call took place and to evidence that he had asked for NCB 
protection on the car he had an accident in. But he hasnt been able to provide us with 
further information. I can only base my investigation on the evidence I have and 
unfortunately, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mr S asked for NCB protection for this 
car. 
Ive looked at the email Mr S complains about which includes a line saying, As per our 
previous conversation, there is protected no claims bonus on the policy. I agree with our 
investigator that EUI could have been clearer in setting out which of Mr S cars had NCB 
protection and which ones didnt. But the email referred to a previous conversation which 
was where the advisor had explained only his other car had NCB protection. Having 
considered everything, I dont think theres been any impact on Mr S. I say this because this 
email was sent some days after Mr S car accident. So, I wont be asking EUI to take any 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman