DRN-1849179
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc refused to refund unauthorised 
transactions on her account, cancelled a direct debit order and closed her account without 
her consent.
What happened
Miss C raised a fraud complaint with Capital One after she didnt recognise several 
transactions on her credit card statement. The transactions were made with her Capital One 
credit card in July and August 2019. They were ATM cash withdrawals and payments to 
Uber.
Capital One refunded the transactions temporarily while it investigated her complaint. As part 
of the process, it contacted Uber. Uber challenged the claim and so Capital One asked Miss 
C for additional information, but she didnt respond. Capital One re-debited the Uber 
payments.
Capital One also wrote to Miss C on 24 September 2019 giving her two months notice that it 
would be closing her account. The letter informed her that it would be cancelling her direct 
debit order. This was how she made her monthly minimum payments. Miss C said she never 
received that letter. Consequently, she missed the minimum payments for October and 
November 2019 and incurred charges.
Capital One closed her account on 24 November 2019 and decided not to refund the 
disputed Uber payments.
Miss C wasnt happy with Capital Ones decision, so she asked this service to investigate. 
She said Capital One couldnt cancel the direct debit order or close her account without her 
consent. And she wanted a refund of the Uber payments.
An investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint, but she didnt uphold it. By March 2020, 
Capital One had refunded the disputed Uber payments after Miss C had provided the 
information it needed. The investigator concluded that the transactions were unauthorised 
but there was nothing more which this service could do as Capital One had refunded all the 
disputed payments.
The investigator also explained that Capital One had removed all charges relating to the 
disputed transactions and had recalculated the balance. And she said that Capital One was 
entitled to cancel the direct debit order and close the account. As it had given her two 
months notice in writing, as required under the terms and conditions, she concluded it had 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
Miss C didnt accept the investigators view. She said she didnt receive the notice to close 
letter. She also said she was involved in an accident on 8 October 2019 and needed 
medical treatment for several weeks, so she was unable to make alternative arrangements 
for the minimum monthly payment.She has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has now refunded all the disputed transactions. It has also removed all the 
charges which were incurred as a result of those transactions. Im satisfied, therefore, that 
this part of Miss Cs complaint has been resolved satisfactorily and there is no longer any 
need for me to consider it.
The outstanding complaints are the cancellation of the direct debit order and closure of her 
account.
Under clauses 16, 17 and 18 of the terms and conditions for the account, Capital One has a 
general discretion to close an account but it is obliged to give the account-holder two 
months notice when it decides to do this. In certain circumstances, it may close an account 
immediately and without notice, for example where it suspects fraud.
I can see that Capital One sent Miss C a notice to close letter on 24 September 2019, 
giving her two months notice that it would be closing her account. The letter explains that, 
after having reviewed her account, it had concerns about the usage. It couldnt elaborate for 
commercially confidential reasons.
Im satisfied that Capital One complied with the terms and conditions by giving Miss C two 
months notice that it would be closing her account. 
The letter also explained that Capital One had blocked the account and Miss C wouldnt be 
able to use it. It advised her that the direct debit order would be cancelled as a result and 
that she should make her monthly minimum payments by standing order or through her 
bank.
However, the issue here is that Miss C said she never received that letter. Capital One sent 
us a copy of the letter, so I can only conclude that it sent it. These are routine letters for 
businesses so its unlikely that it forgot to send it.
Ive checked the address on the letter to make sure it was correct.  The house number, 
street name and post code are all correct. These are the same details as the ones we have 
on file. I understand Miss C said the town was wrong. She lived in a neighbouring town in a 
different county but her address was on the border. The investigator did a search against the 
post code. It matched the town on the letter. Besides, I can see that statements, which Miss 
C did receive, were sent to the same address (the one with the wrong town/county).
Based on this information, Im satisfied that Capital One posted the notice to close letter to 
Miss Cs address - the one it had on file. Generally, if the house or flat number, street name 
and post code are correct then the post should arrive at the correct address. I have no 
explanation for why she didnt receive the letter, other than it went astray in the post, but I 
cant hold Capital One responsible for poor service by Royal Mail. Im satisfied it has 
complied with the terms and conditions and I find it has done nothing wrong by deciding to 
close the account and cancel the direct debit order.Its unfortunate that Miss C didnt receive the letter. It meant she didnt know the direct debit 
order had been cancelled, so she missed the minimum monthly payments for October and 
November. It was also regrettable that she was involved in an accident soon after on 8 
October and was in hospital. She hasnt sent this service her medical notes but Im sure the 
accident made it difficult for her to respond to letters or sort out her Capital One account. 
And I doubt this was her priority at the time.
But she was in telephone contact with Capital One on 11 October. Ive also seen a copy of 
her webchat with Capital One on the same day. The contents of the notice to close letter 
were conveyed to her in the chat. So, at that point, she knew the direct debit order had been 
cancelled and that Capital One would be closing her account. Capital One wrote to her again 
on 30 October reminding her she could make minimum monthly payments by standing order. 
I understand Miss C wasnt well after her accident, but this evidence suggests that she had 
some capacity to conduct her financial affairs. I accept it might have been limited but I 
havent seen her medical notes. I dont see why she couldnt make the minimum monthly 
payments or reach an agreement with Capital One for a freeze or payment holiday while she 
recovered. I also note that she didnt make the minimum monthly payment for December, by 
which time shed had the opportunity to make alternative arrangements.
Miss C also complained that Capital One didnt provide her with a settlement figure which 
excluded the disputed transactions and related charges. Ive seen a letter dated 9 January 
2020 which tells her what the balance was in June 2019, before the disputed transactions 
were posted to her account, so I am satisfied she was given a figure. But I also appreciate 
that shed made payments in July and August which would not have been reflected in that 
figure.
Having regard to all the evidence, Im afraid I dont think that Capital One has done anything 
wrong. There has been an overlap between two sets of complaints  the disputed payments 
and the closure of the account  and this might have created some confusion. However, the 
evidence shows that Capital One kept her informed about her account.
In these circumstances, I find that Capital One has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Miss C was expecting but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
 
Putting things right
As Capital One has refunded all the disputed transactions, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman