DRN-4321419
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have reported missed 
payments to his credit file.
What happened
Mr F had a loan account with NatWest on which hed made every payment in line with the 
contractual terms of the loan agreement. NatWest transferred this loan to a debt recovery 
agency (DRA) alongside some other NatWest accounts held by Mr F which had been 
defaulted for non-payment and on which Mr F owed outstanding balances. 
Mr F continued to make the contractually agreed payments to the DRA for the loan that 
wasnt in arrears  as part as a larger overall payment that he made to the DRA in 
consideration of the other defaulted account balances. However, Mr F wanted to reduce his 
overall monthly payment amount to the DRA and so contacted them to discuss it with them. 
The DRA explained to Mr F that he could pay only what was affordable for him, and so Mr F 
reduced the overall payment that he made to the DRA. But shortly afterwards, Mr F noticed 
that NatWest were reporting missed payments on his credit file for the loan that had never 
been in arrears. Mr F wasnt happy about this, especially as no one at the DRA had told him 
that he might incur any adverse credit file reporting on this loan if he reduced the overall 
payment amount that he made to the DRA. So, he raised a complaint with NatWest.
NatWest responded to Mr F and explained that theyd been receiving reduced payments 
from the DRA for the previously well-kept loan, and that theyd reported missed payments to 
his credit file for that loan accordingly. Mr F wasnt happy with NatWests response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that NatWest had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F had two loans and a current account with NatWest. All three accounts were defaulted 
by NatWest in September 2021, and NatWest say that from that time onwards they have 
been reporting the accounts as being defaulted to the credit reference agencies.
Mr F has explained to this service that hed never missed a payment on one of the loans at 
the time that it was defaulted. But Ive checked the historical statements for the two loan 
accounts, and I can see that Mr F missed several payments on both loans before they were 
defaulted in 2021. And so, it wasnt the case that Mr F was fully up to date with his payments 
on one of the loans when the loan was defaulted.
Following the defaulting of Mr Fs three accounts, NatWest passed Mr Fs combined debt to 
a DRA. That DRA contacted Mr F and arranged a repayment plan for the outstanding 
balance with him. And I note that Mr F doesnt appear to have missed any payments to the 
DRA having arranged that repayment plan with them.
Mr F feels that because he reduced the overall amount of money that he was paying to the 
DRA, hes begun to incur missed payment reporting to his credit file as a result. And to 
illustrate his point Mr F has provided a report by a credit service which shows missed 
payments being recently reported to one of his NatWest loans.
However, while I appreciate Mr Fs concern here, given the credit report that hes obtained, I 
feel that if there has been an error in how his credit file has been reported, its an error that 
has resulted in his credit file showing more favourable reporting than should be the case.
I say this because following the defaulting of Mr Fs three accounts, all three of those 
accounts should show as being defaulted on his credit file and should do so for a period of 
six years from the date of default. This doesnt appear to be the case on the credit report that 
Mr F has obtained. And if that is the case, then the correct position of the credit reporting 
isnt that the missed payment markers should be replaced with account-up-to-date markers, 
but that all reporting since September 2021 should be replaced with default markers.
There are three credit reference agencies to which credit providers such as NatWest report. 
And NatWest have confirmed that they are reporting all three accounts as being defaulted 
since September 2021. But notably, the information Mr F has obtained about his credit file 
isnt from one of the three agencies but is instead from a third-party aggregator. And 
because Mr F hasnt obtained his report from a direct source, the possibility remains that 
some form of mistake has been made by the third-party aggregator which Mr F has used.
I can only reiterate to Mr F that the correct credit file reporting for his three accounts is that 
they should all show as being defaulted in September 2021 and should do so for every 
month since September 2021. And while the outstanding default balances should show as 
reducing, in accordance with the payments that Mr F has been making to the DRA, the three 
accounts should all continue to show as being in default until September 2027.
Finally, I note that when NatWest responded to Mr Fs complaint in April 2023, they providing 
what appears to have been at best a confusing explanation to Mr F as to what the correct 
status of his three accounts should be. Its disappointing that NatWest missed the 
opportunity to clearly explain to Mr F that all three of his accounts should be showing on his 
credit file as being in default, but I hope that Ive been able to clarify this point for Mr F.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take 
any corrective action here. However, I would encourage NatWest to ensure that they are 
reporting the defaults correctly on all three of Mr Fs accounts to the credit reference 
agencies. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman