DRN-1680889
 
Complaint
Miss W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) sent her correspondence 
about the sale of a debt that she owed it after an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) that 
she had entered into with her creditors had been completed.
Background
Miss W had accounts with RBS including a loan account. She experienced financial 
difficulties and entered into an IVA with her creditors in or about 2013. The IVA completed in 
January 2018 when the final dividend was paid. Miss W says that after this date she 
received correspondence about her debt from both RBS and a third party debt collection 
agency.
She complained to RBS about the correspondence she had received. She also included a 
complaint about service which she had previously raised with RBS.
RBS investigated her complaints. It said that in March 2018, it had purported to sell Miss Ws 
debt to a third party. As the debt was part of the IVA, RBS says that it shouldnt have been 
included in the sale. 
RBS repurchased the debt in July 2018. It said that it was likely Miss W wouldve received 
correspondence from it and the third party as a result of these transactions. It upheld this 
part of her complaint. It also upheld the other part of her complaint relating to service. It 
offered her £100 by way of compensation. 
Miss W was not satisfied with the amount of compensation and so she referred her 
complaint to our service.
RBS carried out further investigations. It said that her previous complaint about service had 
already been looked into and she had received £200 compensation. For that reason it said 
that £100 compensation for the correspondence she complained about was fair.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said that as the service complaint had 
already been looked into she wouldnt investigate that aspect any further. Her view was that 
£100 was fair and reasonable compensation for the correspondence Miss W had incorrectly 
received about her debts.
Miss W didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our service has contacted the Insolvency Practitioner (IP)  who administered the IVA. He 
has confirmed hes no objection to our service dealing with this complaint and has no 
interest in the outcome as the IVA is closed.
At the outset, I think its also important to make clear that this decision wont be covering 
Miss Ws concerns about a previous complaint that she made about service she received 
from RBS. That issue was considered separately before. So, I wont be making any findings 
in relation to it. Instead I shall be dealing only with the problems Miss W says shes had with 
RBS concerning the correspondence about debt that had been included in the IVA.
The IVA was a formal and legally binding agreement made between Miss W and her 
creditors. RBS had accepted the terms of the IVA. RBS says Miss W shouldnt have 
received correspondence from it and from a third party debt collection agency concerning 
debts that were included in the IVA. RBS says Miss W received this correspondence 
because it had made an error in the way that it had recorded the IVA. 
Miss W has provided copies of the correspondence that she was sent. Ive noted that there 
are different types of correspondence. So, Ill deal with each separately.
Letters issued under the Consumer Credit Act
The correspondence includes a number of letters which RBS says it was obliged to send 
Miss W under the terms of the Consumer Credit Act. All of these notices and letters are prior 
to January 2018. I can see that this correspondence provided Miss W with statements of the 
amount still outstanding and the payments that had been received. This was factual 
information issued in line with the legislation. So, when RBS sent this information I think it 
was acting fairly.
Assignment of Debt letters dated April 2017
Included in the correspondence are two letters dated April 2017 which refer to the sale of a 
debt. The amount of the debt is also stated. RBS says that these letters might relate to a 
credit card account. It says its records show a credit card debt sale at around this time.
In April 2017 the IVA hadnt concluded and so RBS wouldve been permitted to sell Miss Ws 
debts, or parts of those debts, subject to the terms of the IVA. 
The letters in 2017 make clear that they are being provided for information purposes only. 
They also state that a letter will be sent to the IP supervising the IVA. 
Having looked at these letters Im satisfied that they provided factual information about a 
sale which RBS was permitted to make. Im also satisfied that the IP was made aware of 
what was happening and couldve raised any concerns about the sale.  So, I dont think RBS 
did anything wrong when it issued these letters.
Assignment of Debt letter dated April 2018
Miss W has also provided a copy of a letter which she received from RBS after January 
2018. It is dated 19 April 2018 and says that the loan debt had been assigned to a third 
party. The letter states what the outstanding balance is and says that all payments should 
continue to be paid through the IP. It also provides the name of the firm managing the debt 
and contact details for it. The IVA had concluded in January 2018. So, I can understand why Miss W wouldve been 
concerned that she was being told about an outstanding balance and a sale to a third party 
some three months later. 
RBS has acknowledged that it shouldnt have purported to sell this debt and that Miss W 
shouldnt have received this correspondence. 
Ive looked at the letter she received in April 2018. I can see that it included contact details 
(an address and telephone number) for the firm that had been appointed to manage the 
debt. The letter also mentions that payments should continue to be made through the IP. So, 
whilst I agree that the letter shouldnt have been sent, I think that it did give Miss W sufficient 
information to be able to question what had happened. She couldve contacted the IP or the 
firm mentioned in the letter to express her concerns and to explain that the IVA had 
completed in January 2018.
I can see that in order to put things right RBS reversed the transaction and wrote the 
residual debt off on its systems. The correspondence stopped after that date. It also offered 
Miss W £100 as compensation for the distress that she experienced as a result of its error. 
Having thought about what happened here and what RBS has done to put things right Im 
satisfied that it doesnt need to do anything more. I think that the offer of £100 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss W suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July  2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman