DRN-2344523
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with a car she acquired using a conditional sale agreement provided by 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. She says the car had various issues and she asked to reject it.
Ms A has been represented on this complaint. But, to keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
Ms A in this decision.
What happened
Ms A acquired a used car in February 2019. The car was around seven years eight months 
old and had covered around 106,387 miles. The car cost £7,436 and £7,036 of this amount 
was funded by a conditional sale agreement provided by Moneybarn.
Ms A says shortly after getting the car that she asked to reject it, as she says it had various 
issues with it. Ms A says the car had, amongst other faults, a blocked rear washer jet, faulty 
window seals, a faulty ashtray and a problem with the armrest.
Ms A says an engine management light (EML) appeared on the dash. She made 
Moneybarn aware of this at the beginning of March 2019. A breakdown company attended to 
see the car. It noted issues with the diesel particulate filter (DPF). It said it attempted to 
regenerate the DPF but this failed. It also noted an issue with the dual mass flywheel. At this 
point the car had covered around 108,457 miles.
Ms A complained to Moneybarn about the car. It issued its final response at the end of April 
2019. This said, in summary, that the issues Ms A complained about were either minor 
cosmetic problems or were due to wear and tear. It said it had attempted to arrange an 
independent inspection of the car, but hadnt been able to get hold of Ms A. Moneybarn 
didnt uphold the complaint. But, it said it would still consider arranging an independent 
inspection if Ms A got in contact.
Ms A got back in touch with Moneybarn in May 2019 and an independent inspection was 
carried out at the end of the month. This noted an EML was not illuminated. It said a brake 
pad warning light was on, but said the pads were visibly serviceable. It said there was a 
fault code recorded for the throttle position sensor and it believed the DPF system wouldnt 
regenerate with this code logged in the ECU. It noted oil leaking and fume leakage from 
around the DPF. It also said there was a slight vibration throughout the car consistent with 
dual mass flywheel wear.
The report concluded that based on the mileage of 112,764 at the time, the issues would not 
have been present or developing at the point of supply.
In early June 2019 Moneybarn issued a second final response. It said, in summary, that 
based on the independent reports conclusions it still wasnt upholding Ms As complaint.
Ms A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator issued an opinion and said he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He said, in summary, that having thought about what the independent inspection said along 
with other evidence, he considered there was nothing to suggest the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ms A disagreed with this opinion and made several points. Amongst other things, she said 
she had asked to reject the car on 22 February 2019. She said the inspector who did the 
independent report told her in person that the DPF would have been faulty at sale. She said 
the inspector used the wrong mileage for the conclusions about the car, as the DPF 
developed a fault earlier. And she said the EML light was still illuminated.
Our investigator responded and said these points didnt change his opinion. He said hed 
asked Moneybarn about the inspection, and it had been in touch with the engineer. The 
engineer had said he wouldnt have told Ms A there was an issue with the DPF at the point 
of supply. And they said the mileage didnt change their opinion.
Ms A then sent in some further evidence. This included screenshots of text messages 
between her and the dealer, photos of the car and videos of her partner making phone calls. 
She also sent a photo of a diagnostic report of the car with details of fault codes.
Ms A also raised concerns that her ability to afford the borrowing was not checked before 
Moneybarn gave her the finance.
Our investigator responded and said, in summary, that the new information didnt change his 
opinion and he still wasnt upholding the complaint.
Ms A remained unhappy and the complaint was arranged to be passed to an ombudsman. 
While awaiting a decision, Ms A let us know that due to non-payment of the account the 
agreement had been terminated. In November 2020 the car was collected. At this point the 
mileage of the car was around 125,148.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A has raised some concerns about the customer service received from the dealer and 
with difficulty getting information from them about this complaint. I dont think Moneybarn are 
responsible for these issues, so I wont comment further about this in my decision. 
Ms A also said she doesnt believe Moneybarn checked this lending was affordable for her 
when she took the borrowing. From what I can see, this was only raised after our 
investigator issued his opinion and didnt form part of Ms As complaint to Moneybarn. So, I 
havent considered this further here. Ms A will need to contact Moneybarn to raise a 
separate complaint if she wishes to pursue this.
Ms A complains about the quality of goods supplied under a conditional sale agreement. 
Providing consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied we can 
consider Ms As concerns about Moneybarn.
Ms A has raised various points and issues about the car in her complaint. Im going to focus 
on what I think are the key things raised here. Where I havent mentioned, or addressed 
something in detail, this isnt because I havent thought about it or consider it unimportant. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to reassure Ms A, and 
Moneybarn, that Ive carefully considered all of the information about this complaint.When deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and regulations. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says under a contract to 
supply goods, the supplier  Moneybarn in this case  needs to make sure the goods are of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking 
into account any relevant factors.
It seems to me that relevant factors in this case would include, amongst other things, the 
cars age, price, mileage and description. So, Ill bear in mind that this car was nearly eight 
years old. It had done well over 100,000 miles when Ms A got it. And, Ms A paid an amount 
for the car which represented a very significant reduction on what it wouldve cost new.
I have carefully considered the cars description. I can see from the cars advert and in texts 
between Ms A and the dealer that the car had been described as being in fantastic 
condition. But, I still need to consider the cars age, price and mileage. I think a reasonable 
person would consider that the car may have some issues with it given this. I dont think they 
would expect the car to be in the same condition as a younger car with fewer miles, even 
though it was described as fantastic.
So, what I need to consider here is whether or not I think the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Ms A. Ill consider the issues Ms A has raised in turn.
DPF:
It isnt in dispute here that the car had issues with the DPF system while Ms A had it. I say 
this as Ms A, Moneybarn, the breakdown report and the independent inspection all say this 
was the case. So, what I need to consider here is whether these issues were present or 
developing at the point of supply. 
I can see from the contact notes provided by Moneybarn that Ms A first contacted it about 
the DPF in early March 2019. The report from the breakdown company is dated 19 March 
2019 and the mileage was recorded as 108,457.
Ive considered what the independent inspection says here. This says in summary, that the 
DPF issues are likely caused by a throttle position sensor fault logged in the ECU  as this 
would cause the DPF system to not regenerate. It concludes on the balance of probability, 
would not have been developing at finance inception.
Ive considered that Ms A said this conclusion wasnt valid, as the inspection was carried out 
at a higher mileage than when the issue first appeared. So, Ive looked at the inspectors 
response when this argument put to them by Moneybarn. Here the inspector said: If this 
issue was present at point of sale, I would expect symptoms and problems to have arisen 
well before 2000 miles, so the difference in mileage wouldnt affect the inspectors 
conclusion.
Ive also carefully considered what Ms A said about being told by the inspector in person that 
the fault with the DPF was present at the point of sale. But, this is the opposite conclusion to 
what the inspector said in their report. And, the inspector directly denied saying this when 
asked about it. So, on balance, I dont think its likely Ms A was told this at the time.
Ive considered the diagnostic report sent in by Ms A. This seems to back up the 
independent report in that it references a fault code for the throttle position sensor. The 
fault code with the throttle sensor has a date and mileage under it, Date: 2019.04.17 and 
Mileage: 177766 km. Thinking about the mileage here, this works out around 110,459 
miles. I dont know for sure if this date and mileage is the first occurrence of this fault or not. But, it 
appears this fault code may have appeared after the breakdown report mentioned issues 
with the DPF. Ive thought carefully about this. I accept this means the DPF issues might not 
have been caused by this fault code as suspected by the engineer.
But, even if this was the case, this wouldnt affect the outcome I would reach here. I say this 
as the first evidence Ive seen of the DPF having an issue is the breakdown report where the 
car had covered over 2,000 miles since Ms A got it. I agree with the inspectors comments 
that if the DPF had a fault with it when Ms A got the car, then it wouldve become apparent 
earlier than this  whatever the cause for the fault was.
Ive also thought about whether this fault code itself means the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. But, the date and mileage in the diagnostic report was over 10 weeks after Ms A got 
the car and after the car had covered over 4,000 miles. So, Im satisfied, if the date recorded 
is the first instance, this fault wasnt present or developing at the point of sale.
Thinking about all of this, I accept the car developed a fault with the DPF system after Ms A 
got it. But, Im satisfied, on balance, that this issue wasnt present or developing at the point 
of supply. So, it follows I dont think this means the car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
Ms A got it.
Finally, the CRA says durability should be considered when thinking about satisfactory 
quality. I have considered if this issue arising when it did meant the car wasnt durable. 
I know it must have been disappointing for an issue to arise with the car relatively soon after 
Ms A got it. But, I think a reasonable persons expectations for durability would be low for a 
car of this age and mileage. There is always going to be a risk of things going wrong when 
acquiring a car which has done nearly 110,000 miles. A DPF system is a part of a car that 
would suffer from wear and tear during its use. Thinking about this, I dont think in this case 
that the DPF developing a fault when it did means the car wasnt durable.
Dual mass flywheel:
Ive considered the evidence about the dual mass flywheel. Both the breakdown report and 
the independent inspection mention this. The inspection describes this as a slight vibration. 
It again says its unlikely this was present or developing at the point of supply. 
Ive thought carefully about this. On balance, I havent seen enough to make me think this 
issue was present or developing at the point of supply. But, even if it was, I dont think this 
wouldve meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
I say this as I dont think a reasonable person would think a slight vibration would mean a 
car of this age, price and mileage was of unsatisfactory quality. Ive also considered that 
when the car was collected in November 2020, it had covered nearly 19,000 miles since 
Ms A got it. She has confirmed no repairs were done to the car. So, Im satisfied, even if it 
wasnt working perfectly when she got it, there must have been a reasonable amount of 
wear left in the flywheel for the car to have been able to drive this distance without repair. 
Engine management lightMs A complains that an EML was on in the car shortly after she got it. Ive thought about this. 
But the breakdown report doesnt mention an EML. And, the independent inspection 
specifically says that an EML wasnt on.
Ms A has provided photos of an EML illuminated in the car. But, looking at the date from the 
dashboard where visible, these photos appear to be from May and June 2019  which is 
several months after Ms A got the car.
Thinking about everything, on balance I havent seen enough to make me think its likely 
there was a fault with the car which lead to an EML illuminating when Ms A got it.
Other issues
Ms A complained about the ashtray not closing, the rear wiper jet being blocked, the armrest 
being faulty and window seals not fitting correctly. 
I have seen some photos of these issues. But, they arent clear enough to make me think its 
most likely these are faults that were present at the point of sale. But, even if I assumed they 
were, I still wouldnt uphold this complaint.
Even considering the cars description, I dont think a reasonable person wouldve expected 
this car to be in perfect condition considering its age and mileage. I think they would assume 
the car might have some minor issues  which is how I would describe these problems. So, 
even if I accepted these faults were present when Ms A got the car, I dont think this would 
mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
I have considered what the independent inspection said about the brake pad warning light 
being illuminated. But, it also said the pads were clearly serviceable. This warning light 
hasnt been mentioned again and I havent seen enough to make me think this was 
illuminated when Ms A got the car. So, I havent considered this further.
I have considered all of the other issues Ms A has raised about the car. But, I havent seen 
enough to make me think these were present or developing at the point of supply. So, these 
dont change my decision.
Short term right to reject:
Ms A has told us that she complained about the car and asked to reject it on 22 February 
2019. She said she believes this meant she had the right to reject it.
Ive carefully thought about this. I know how strongly Ms A feels about this issue. And I 
understand shes been frustrated with trying to get information and evidence to back this up.
The earliest I can see Ms A complains about the car is 6 March 2019  which is outside of 
the 30 days where someone can exercise their short term right to reject goods under the 
CRA. But, even if Ms A did ask to reject the car within this 30 day window, I still wouldnt say 
she shouldve been allowed to do this. Ill explain why.
The CRA explains, in summary, that under certain conditions a consumer has the short term 
right to reject goods if they exercise this right within 30 days of acquiring them. But, they can 
only do so if the goods are of unsatisfactory quality. As Ive explained above, Ive not seen 
enough to make me think Ms As car was of unsatisfactory quality. So, regardless of when 
she asked to reject it, I dont think she had the right under the CRA to do so.
Summary and conclusion:In summary, I appreciate Ms As car did develop faults when she had it. But, on balance I 
havent seen enough to make me think these faults were either present or developing at the 
point of supply or were enough to mean this particular car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman