DRN-2430438
The complaint
Mr V complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr V took out a credit card in 1998. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy to protect his 
credit card monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. Mr V disagrees. Hes mainly concerned that 
he didnt know he had PPI insurance. Mr V also told us that like a lot of people he thought 
that taking out PPI was the only way to be accepted for the credit he wanted. And he didnt 
see anything saying that PPI was optional. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V applied for this credit card and the PPI by filling in a postal application. Its completely 
understandable that Mr V mightve forgotten exactly what happened so long ago. But the 
way the application form is set out makes it clear that it was up to Mr V to say if he wanted to 
take out PPI with his credit card. 
I say this because the application form he completed had yes and no PPI options. So Mr V 
wouldve known it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. 
And Mr V indicated on the form that he wanted to have PPI by signing the yes option. He 
couldve signed the no option instead if he hadnt wanted to take out PPI. This is left blank 
on the form that Mr V filled in. 
So, I think that Bank of Scotland made Mr V aware that the PPI was optional and it was 
added to his account because he chose to take it.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr V, so it didnt have to check the policy was 
suitable for him. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mr V enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for him.
Ive thought carefully about the policy terms that probably wouldve applied when Mr V took 
out PPI. I think Mr V was eligible for the policy when he took it out. 
The available information suggests that the policy covered Mr V in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. Looking at the other means Mr V 
couldve relied on to make his credit card repayments if he couldnt work I think he couldve 
benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim. 
Ive taken into account that Mr V told us his employer wouldve paid him at least 6 months 
sick pay. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for up to 12 months if he was off work 
sick or disabled. So it provided better protection than Mr V wouldve had if hed just been 
relying on his sick pay through work. 
And this policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months if he lost his job unexpectedly and 
was out of work.  
Although Mr V also mentioned having a few months worth of savings, I dont know if he 
would've always had savings to rely on if he wasnt able to work. And it was his choice to 
have PPI  or not  knowing what other ways he had to pay his credit card.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
If Mr V had claimed successfully for the whole 12 months that the policy couldve paid out it 
wouldve cleared his card balance. 
Based on everything hes told us, I think Mr V couldve benefitted from the PPI.   
Its possible some information Bank of Scotland gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Vs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to have PPI.
I dont think the PPI cost was made clear to Mr V when he bought the policy. But, from what 
Ive seen, Mr V hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums when he took 
out his credit card. And he chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to, so it seems 
Mr V wanted this type of cover at the time. 
Looked at overall, I think Mr V still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better 
informed. The policy gave him worthwhile protection in his particular situation. So I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr V because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr V about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Mr V, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Bank plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But Bank of Scotland Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr V any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman