DRN-1822936
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont pay the full cost of 
her dogs treatment under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K was walking her dog when she noticed he was holding his left hind leg up. He began 
to limp when standing up in the following days. After taking him to the vet, he was diagnosed 
with a cruciate ligament problem and an operation was scheduled. A few days before the 
operation, Ls right hind leg began to give way, which Mrs K felt was due to him 
overcompensating to protect his left leg.
RSA paid a total of £2,145.09 for the operation and treatment required for Ls operation on 
his left hind leg, leaving £845.91 of the £3,000 condition limit for cruciate rupture. It was then 
decided that surgery would also be needed on Ls right hind leg, so Mrs K submitted a 
second claim to RSA.
The second claim was made for £1,845.61, but RSA said it would only pay £845.91. This 
was because it said the maximum benefit available on the policy was £3,000 per condition, 
which had now been reached  so it couldnt pay any more.
Mrs K wasnt happy with this. She said she had to take out a credit card to pay the balance 
owed to the vet, and has had to continue paying for physiotherapy and hydrotherapy 
following the operation. She thought the two operations should be considered as separate 
conditions, as they were affecting different legs  so the £3,000 maximum benefit should be 
applied for each claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that the maximum benefit of 
£3,000 applied to each illness, rather than each body part. She thought this had been clearly 
explained within the policy wording, so didnt think RSA needed to take any further action.
Mrs K didnt agree. She said several experts had told her that in their opinion, it should be 
treated as a separate condition due to affecting a different leg. She also said the policy 
wording doesnt say that it wont cover bilateral conditions.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for each condition for 12 months, up to a limit of £3,000. The 
policy terms also set out the position for Repeating or connected health issues and explain 
that if a pet suffers from health issues which a vet confirms are connected, the single vet fee 
limit of £3,000 will apply to the treatment of all these connected health issues. But if the vet 
confirms theyre not connected, the £3,000 vet fee limit will apply to each of those health 
issues separately.
So the issue is whether the problems affecting the two legs were two different issues, which 
were unconnected, or were a connected issue.
The vet explained there was evidence of hip dysplasia with osteoarthritis affecting both hips. 
Whilst Mrs Ks dog had made a good recovery following the first surgery, the vet noted that 
he was now also struggling on his right hind limb. Anterior cruciate ligament disease was 
suspected, so surgery was performed. 
The vets letter doesnt refer to any accident or trauma which has caused either ligament to 
rupture. It instead refers to anterior cruciate ligament disease. I appreciate Mrs K says 
several experts have told her it should be considered a separate condition, but we havent 
been provided any evidence of this. In these circumstances Id place more weight on the 
evidence we have seen from the vet. And based on this evidence, its more likely that the 
problems with the two legs were caused by the same underlying condition rather than two 
unconnected health issues - the vet hasnt confirmed that the two conditions are unrelated. 
Mrs K has noted that the policy does not say it doesnt cover bilateral conditions. But the 
policy does set out how it deals with connected issues and RSA has handled the claim in 
line with its policy terms and conditions. So I dont think RSA has treated Mrs K unfairly by 
not applying the £3,000 vet fee limit to each claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman