DRN-3089861
The complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss M was provided with two credit cards (Aqua and Opus) by NewDay and a loan for 
£2,500. She says that the amount of credit provided to her in a short space of time was 
irresponsible and that her debts spiralled having a negative impact on her mental health.
NewDay issued a final response letter in May 2021. It said that the credit cards Miss M had 
been provided with were aimed at customers with poor credit ratings and so it wasnt 
unusual for there to be some adverse information recorded on a customers credit fie at the 
time of application. It said that before the credit cards and loan were provided it carried out 
affordability and credit checks and based on these the lending was affordable. The credit 
limits on Miss Ms credit cards were increased on two occasions and NewDay said that 
Miss M was given the option to opt out of the increases, but this didnt happen. It said that 
checks were undertaken before the increases were provided and these suggested the 
increases were affordable. Based on this it didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M didnt agree with NewDays final response and referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think that NewDay should have provided all the credit to Miss M that it 
did. She thought the checks carried out before the Aqua card was provided were 
reasonable. A loan for £2,500 was then provided and our investigator thought that Miss Ms 
income and expenses should have been verified before this was provided. Miss M then 
opened an Opus card account and our investigator thought further checks should have taken 
place to ensure Miss M was borrowing in a sustainable way. Before the credit limit increases 
were applied to Miss Ms cards our investigator thought that a review of Miss Ms financial 
situation should have taken place.
Had the checks taken place that our investigator thought should have she said that the 
provision of the loan in January 2018, the Opus card with a £600 limit and subsequent 
increase to £1,150 would have appeared affordable. However, by December 2018, she 
thought there were signs that Miss M was struggling with her money and that providing 
further credit wouldnt be sustainable. Because of this she didnt think the credit limit 
increases in December 2018 or January 2019 should have been provided. 
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it believed its checks were sufficient 
and said there was no indication of Miss M being under financial strain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M was provided with credit by NewDay in the form of two credit card accounts and a 
loan. Before credit is provider we would expect the provider to carry out adequate 
affordability and credit worthiness checks. There isnt a specific set of checks that need to 
take place, but we would expect the checks to be proportionate given the size and duration 
of the lending and the consumers circumstances.
Miss M was initially provided with an Aqua credit card account in January 2016. The account 
had a limit of £450. Before this was provided, NewDay asked about Ms Ms employment and 
she said she was employed with an annual salary of £30,000. She said she was living with 
parents at the time. Information was also gathered about Miss Ms credit history. Miss M has 
noted that she had defaults on her credit file at the time. 
The information gathered through the application process showed that Miss M had £950 of 
payday loans at the time (active or defaulted) and a total of £2,900 in defaulted accounts. 
However, the most recent default was recorded over a year prior and there were no arrears 
recorded in her payday loans in the previous six months. Having considered Miss Ms 
income and the credit limit provided, I think the checks were reasonable and I do not think 
that these raised affordability concerns.
Miss M was then provided with a loan for £2,500 in January 2018. Miss M provided 
information saying that she had a monthly income of £4,500 and expenses of £700. This is a 
high monthly income, and I think it would have been reasonable to verify this to ensure it 
gave a reasonable indication of Miss Ms financial situation. I cannot see that this happened 
and having looked at Miss Ms bank statements from the months leading up to the loan, 
while she was paid around £4,500 in December 2017, the two previous months she was 
paid around £2,165 and I think this would have been a reasonable salary to include in the 
assessment. Additional to the monthly salary Miss M was also receiving regular significant 
payments from a third party which increased her monthly income. The repayments due on 
the loan were just under £90 a month and while I think further verification should have taken 
place before the loan was provided, I do not find that had this happened the loan would have 
appeared unaffordable.
In March 2018, Miss M applied for a second credit card account (Opus). She declared an 
annual income of £45,000 and had unsecured debts totalling £22,800. While the other 
information didnt raise concerns (no recent defaults and no outstanding payday loans) I 
think given the level of unsecured debt and that this was Miss Ms second application for 
credit within a few months, further checks should have happened to ensure she was 
managing her debts sustainably. I have looked at Miss Ms banks statements and these 
support the income figure she had provided. I have also looked at the other information 
provided, and I do not find I have enough to say that this account based on a £600 credit 
limit shouldnt have been provided.
Miss Ms Opus card credit limit was increased from £600 to £1,150 in August 2018, around 
six months after the card had been provided. I note NewDays comment that there is the 
option to opt out of credit limit increases, but this doesnt mean that adequate checks arent 
required before the additional credit is provided. NewDay has said that before the limit was 
increased it assessed how Miss M had been managing her accounts and carried out other 
credit checks. 
I have looked through the information gathered and can see that Miss M was managing her 
accounts within the credit limits and was making regular payments towards these. Having 
considered this and the other information that has been provided, I do not find I can say I 
have enough to say that this credit limit increase shouldnt have been provided.
Shortly after the limit increase on Miss Ms Opus credit card, an increase was applied to her 
Aqua credit card taking the limit from £450 to £1,250. Miss M had increased her spending on 
her Opus card shortly after the increase was applied and by the time a further increase was applied to her Opus credit card in December 2018, she had exceeded the limit on her cards 
on two occasions. By this time Miss Ms credit limits had increased significantly and given 
the information available, I think by December 2018, NewDay should have been concerned 
that Miss M was struggling to manage her money and that providing any further credit from 
this time wouldnt be responsible.
Based on the above, I uphold this complaint regarding the credit limit increases applied in 
December 2018 and January 2019. 
Putting things right
As I dont think the increases in the credit limit in December 2018 and January 2019 should 
have happened, NewDay Ltd should:
Remove any interest and charges resulting from these increases. So, from 
December 2018 NewDay can only add interest accrued on the balance up to £1,150 
on the Opus account and £1,250 on the Aqua account as these were the previous 
limits.
If there are balances remaining after the requested adjustments have been made, 
NewDay should work with Miss M to set up a suitable repayment plan. If the 
adjustments clear the balances any funds remaining should be refunded to Miss M 
along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date of overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any negative information recorded about the accounts from December 2018 
onwards from Miss Ms credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd should take the actions 
set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman