DRN-3169575
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed about 77,200 miles. Whilst I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear on a car of that age and mileage I dont think 
theyd expect to experience the sort of problems Mr R has. For instance, I dont think theyd 
expect to replace the brakes or the exhaust system in the first few weeks of driving.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless Moneybarn can demonstrate otherwise. Moneybarn and the dealership have 
taken responsibility for those faults and have completed repairs for Mr R. The independent 
report that was completed in May 2021 has confirmed that no faults remained at that point 
so I dont think theres any additional work that it would be fair to ask Moneybarn to 
complete.
However, Mr R was without his car for about a month in March/April 2021. He says he 
wasnt provided with a courtesy car and Moneybarn havent provided any evidence to 
suggest Mr Rs assertions are wrong. Moneybarn have suggested that as Mr R is not hiring 
the car but seeking in the long term to buy it, then it would not be fair to refund a monthly 
instalment. I disagree, its not fair for Mr R to have been paying for a car he had no use of.
Putting things right
Moneybarn should refund one monthly instalment in respect of the lack of use Mr R has had 
from the car. They should add 8% interest to that refund as Mr R has been deprived of that 
money.
Mr r has also been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to take the car back for 
repairs and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. In those circumstances I would agree with our investigator that Moneybarn 
should pay Mr R £100 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Refund one monthly finance instalment to Mr R in respect of the lack of use hes 
experienced. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr R £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman