DRN-4081320
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the value he received when he surrendered his Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) endowment policy. 
What happened
Mr D had an endowment savings plan with Aviva, which he surrendered on 15 September 
2022.
Mr D says that he called Aviva prior to surrender to confirm the process and that he was 
asked for the value of his policy as it was shown on his account. Mr D gave the value on that 
day (14 September 2022) of £54,260.42. 
On 19 September 2022, Mr D received confirmation of the surrender and that the value he 
would receive would be £53,344.20. This was significantly less than the amount Mr D was 
expecting, so he complained to Aviva. 
Aviva responded to say that they dont use live pricing and that when Mr D confirmed 
surrender of his plan, he was securing the price at the date the request was received on. 
Aviva said this was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. However, they did 
recognise that the valuation had been calculated incorrectly. They said he had received a 
price for the next valuation point (close on 15 September 2022 instead of close on 14 
September 2022). They calculated the loss to be £83.99 and paid this with additional interest 
for loss of use of these funds and £300 as compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr D remained unhappy. He said that his policy documentation wasnt clear, the associate 
he had spoken to had been misleading and that the annual statements had suggested hed 
get the price he had quoted to Aviva. 
Our investigator looked into it but thought Aviva had acted fairly to put things right. As no 
agreement was reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Aviva have done enough to put things right 
here. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to say that I do understand the frustration that Mr D would have felt, in 
receiving significantly less funds than he was expecting for a policy he had kept in place for 
some time. 
However, our role is to establish if Aviva have done anything wrong, and if they have, 
whether they have done enough to put Mr D back in the position he would have been in, but 
for their error. I am satisfied with the explanation given and that Aviva have now calculated 
the surrender value of Mr Ds plan correctly. 
Mr D completed the surrender request on 15 September 2022 and Aviva have now paid him 
the value on that day (which was calculated at close on 14 September 2022). Mr D was 
expecting the value as of the day of 14 September 2022. However, he is not entitled to that 
price as he didnt process the surrender until the following day, when the plan had been 
valued again. 
Mr D says this isnt made clear in the terms and conditions of his policy. However, section 9 
explains that the surrender value will be a sum equal to the value of the units cancelled 
based on their bid prices at the valuation of the Funds immediately following receipt of the 
instruction.. I think this makes clear that Mr D will receive the value at the point the 
surrender request is received, which is what has happened. 
However, I do agree that Aviva could have been clearer with Mr D about the price he was 
going to receive, during the call he had with them. This wasnt explained and meant Mr D 
received approximately £900 less than he was expecting. However, Aviva have paid Mr D a 
total of £300 for this loss of expectation and the distress this caused. As well as the service 
he received from them, including a failure to call him back. I think this amount is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and correctly considers the impact on Mr D. 
In summary, I think Aviva have now paid the correct surrender value to Mr D. I appreciate he 
was expecting the figure he saw and gave to Aviva on 14 September 2022. However, that 
isnt the value he is entitled to under the terms and conditions of the policy. I think Aviva 
have already fairly compensated him for his loss of expectation and the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. They have already done enough to put things right for   
Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman