DRN-1809630
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as TSB) mis-sold Ms W, and the late 
Mr W, payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. Before I issued a decision, I 
wanted to explain in more depth my view of the case, so that everyone could have the 
chance to give more comments and evidence. So I wrote a provisional decision in which I 
said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
My current view is that I shouldnt uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Ms W has said the PPI was added without her or the late Mr Ws knowledge. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was 
reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such a 
long time ago. It would be more usual for the PPI to have been mentioned in the 
documents at the time, and for some form of application form to be signed. Given how 
long ago this all happened, its not surprising if some documents are missing. But I 
think its more likely this is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice, 
even if Ms W doesnt now remember it. But, overall, without stronger evidence, I cant 
fairly say the PPI was added without Ms W and the late Mr Ws consent. 
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case. I will explain why:
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Ms W and Mr W, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the 
PPI was suitable for Ms W and Mr Ws particular circumstances. But it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time. Being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Ms W and Mr W 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when they would need to fall back on any savings (although Ms 
W has said in fact she didnt have savings at the time anyway). This all would 
have put Ms W and Mr W in a more secure position, if they eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI at the time.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether Ms W and Mr W took the PPI. Given their level of sick pay 
and savings, I dont think fuller information would have made the PPI seem 
less useful. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But 
its unlikely Ms W and Mr W would have been affected by any of these. Its 
likely they were eligible for the policy.
So I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ms W is unhappy that she had difficulty making her PPI complaint, and says she had 
to keep chasing Lloyds. 
Lloyds admits there were delays in dealing with Mrs Ws complaint. It says it has 
identified system errors which caused this. It has offered its apologies to Mrs W for 
the upset caused and the delay she has experience whilst we have been dealing with 
her complaint. It says that in recognition of the distress and upset caused it would 
like to offer Mrs W £75 in compensation. 
My view at this stage is that Lloyds has now dealt with this aspect of the complaint 
reasonably. I think this offer, combined with the apology, appears a reasonable one 
and similar to what I would have awarded if I had adjudicated on the matter. 
In response, Lloyds didn't make further comments. Mrs W said:
I have provided all the evidence that I can in regards to being mis-sold the PPI. I can 
confirm I was not aware that I was paying the PPI and like other cases I believe that I 
am due those funds back. As previously discussed I am not happy with the rejection 
letter received by the bank and would like for these funds to be returned back to 
myself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I don't have new evidence or arguments, I've decided to confirm my provisional decision. 
This means I'm not upholding Mrs W's complaint. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman