DRN-2770353
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax, referred to as the business. 
In short, she says:
She was advised to invest too much money into a Personal Investment Plan (PIP). 
She was advised to put too much of her capital at risk. 
She was left without a suitable cash reserve. 
The funds were too high risk for a first-time investor. 
Mrs C was being represented by a CMC until recently. 
What happened
In March 2004, Mrs C received just under £100,000 from the sale of her property. At the time 
she was living in rented accommodation, looking for a suitable property to buy. 
In August 2007, she was advised to invest £100,000 in a PIP, to give her a quarterly income. 
Despite the recommendation, the next day Mrs C decided to invest £50,000 into a PIP. 
It was recorded that she was 53 years of age, a widower and employed (with the business), 
earning around £18,000 a year. She had a net monthly disposable income of £1,200 and 
she preferred to retire at 65 years of age, which was 12 years away. 
It was also recorded that Mrs C had £134,604 available in a deposit account and £7,000 
invested in shares. I note her attitude to risk was recorded as medium, and her objective was 
income with the prospect of capital growth. Mrs C also put aside £3,600 for bills and 
immediate needs.  
On 24 June 2008, around 10 months later, Mrs C surrendered her PIP because she felt it 
was losing money. She received £44,158, in addition to an income of £2,174. 
Whilst the business consents to us considering the merits of this complaint, it doesnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. Im mindful that a separate complaint about an ISA was 
upheld and doesnt form a part of this decision. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The PIP offered a stable investment, it didnt involve more risk than Mrs C was 
planning/prepared to take. 
It would generate an income of £341, which was over and beyond her £70 monthly 
shortfall. Mrs C was keen to start the investment from October. 
The fund was made up of UK equities (48.1%), UK corporate bonds (32.4%), 
property (15.8%) and cash (3.7%). So, although there was investment into equities 
and property, there was also investments in corporate bonds to reduce/balance the 
risk. 
This wasnt an unsuitable risk for Mrs C to take with roughly 39% of her money. She 
still had around 61% available if she needed it. 
The investment risks were highlighted to Mrs C.  
Although Mrs C was renting at the time, she confirmed that she was flexible about 
purchasing a house.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
Shes unhappy that she lost out on her investment and wasnt told that she could 
potentially lose the funds as well.
Having previously worked in a bank she knows that advisers can pressurise and 
persuade consumers into signing up to products.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reason. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face if the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs C says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation to invest in the PIP was unsuitable. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I 
recognise Mrs Cs strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that that the recommendation 
was unsuitable. 
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mrs C to arrive at the conclusion that she 
was a medium risk investor. I note Mrs Cs answers indicate that she was willing to take a 
risk with her investment, however in this instance  due to the size of the investment  she 
wanted her investment safe, even if it meant she would receive lower returns. In other 
words, Mrs C wanted to take a more cautious approach. 
I note the business suggests that the Managed Income Fund  which was cautious/medium 
investment  broadly matched her attitude to risk. I note the business says that this fund
had a large focus on UK companies, investment grade UK and European bonds, property 
and cash met the customer objectives. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to disagree with this conclusion. In any case, Im not persuaded that Mrs C took more 
risk than was reasonable for her in the circumstances. Im mindful that the fund makeup 
although invested in equites and property, was also invested in corporate bonds and cash to 
balance the exposure to risk. 
That notwithstanding, I should make clear that Im not specifically looking at whether Mrs C 
was a medium risk investor, or whether the recommendations were. Im considering if the 
recommendations were generally suitable for her. Notwithstanding the points made by the 
Mrs C (and the CMC before that) about the funds, its not for us to risk rate the funds. In this 
instance the funds were classed as presenting a medium/cautious risk  suitable for a 
medium/cautious risk investor  Ive no reason, given the business explanation, to think this 
was incorrect. 
On balance, Im satisfied the recommendation met Mrs Cs key objective for capital growth 
and income, and that she was willing to take a risk  with a portion of her money  to 
achieve that objective. Im mindful that there was a shortfall in her income and that she also 
wanted to generate capital growth. In other words, Im unable to say that the 
recommendation didnt meet her needs, or that Mrs C wasnt in a position to take a 
medium/cautious risk with a portion of her money.  
I also dont think that Mrs C invested too much of her available capital. I note she invested 
only half of what she was initially recommended to invest  roughly 39% of her available 
assets  still leaving around £80,000 on deposit in case of emergencies or unforeseeable 
circumstances. Im aware that she cancelled her investment because she was worried about 
making a loss, not because it was unaffordable or because she didnt have a sufficient cash 
reserve. 
I note the business says that Mrs C confirmed she was an experienced investor, but whether 
or not Mrs C was a very experienced investor, Im mindful that she wasnt a first-time 
investor (as claimed by the CMC) and she wasnt without investment experience. Therefore, 
I think shes likely to have known how the investment worked and the risks involved. In my 
opinion she ought reasonably to have known that she wasnt likely to achieve her overall 
goals by cashing-in early, only ten months into a five-year term investment.  
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mrs C was given any guarantees about the level of 
return. And just because she didnt receive a better return  in the early years of the 
investment  doesnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable. 
I appreciate Mrs C will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman