DRN-4257481
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his home insurer QIC Europe Ltd because it declined his claim 
made for storm damage to his home.
What happened
There was a storm in the vicinity of Mr Bs home in January 2022. His property is 
semi-detached with a pitched tiled roof spanning his and his neighbours home. Following 
the storm, he and his neighbour noticed the top few courses of bricks, along one entire 
faade of the conjoined properties, were leaning outwards. They had a builder assess the 
damage, do some make safe work and present repair estimates. They each made a claim to 
their respective insurers.
QIC began considering Mr Bs claim. Work to reinstate the properties was completed. QIC, 
considering a two-line report completed by its assessor who visited the property before 
repairs were completed, declined the claim. It said the roof had spread due to age, there was 
no storm damage. When QIC wouldnt change its mind on the claim, Mr B complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr B provided evidence from two builders, as well as testimony from his neighbour. His 
neighbour also shared evidence from the loss adjuster appointed by his insurer. His insurer 
had accepted and paid the claim following the investigations undertaken and 
recommendations made by its loss adjuster. Mr B and his neighbour had each been charged 
£23,980 by the builder to fix the problem at the property which Mr B believed, and his 
neighbours insurer accepted, had resulted from storm winds lifting and shifting the roof. 
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded by the evidence Mr B presented. He didnt think a healthy 
roof would be moved as suggested by Mr B where the maximum windspeed was 68mph. 
Further, having reviewed photos, he said he didnt think storm was the main cause of the 
damage. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree with the findings. His complaint came to me for review. I wasnt persuaded, 
given the available evidence, that QIC had shown it had fairly and reasonably declined the 
claim. My initial thoughts were that QICs evidence was lacking and there was evidence to 
suggest the claim should have reasonably been accepted under the storm cover. 
Some key points from my review, which I put to QIC, were:
The report presented on the damage is unusually brief.
No detail is given of the reports author which satisfies that they are capable and suitably 
qualified to make such a determination on the damage.
The author doesnt seem to have inspected the roof internally, certainly there are no 
supporting photos.
No evidence has been presented which shows the house was damaged prior to the 
storm.
The winds in play, 68  83 mph, are capable of doing this type of damage.
The property appears to be in an exposed position.
A certified loss adjuster has accepted the damage claimed for was caused by storm  
and has also verified the costs claimed for fixing it. Albeit in relation to the half of the 
roof/damaged area which QIC is not liable for.
I told QIC that I felt it hadnt supported its decline of the claim. I said it should reimburse 
Mr Bs outlay, plus interest* and pay £300 compensation for upset. 
QIC wasnt minded to agree with my recommendations. It said it didnt agree its initial 
evidence was lacking, that photos taken showed fairly conclusively that the roof was in a 
poor state. But it accepted the report content was brief  so it said it had obtained a report 
from a surveyor. The report from the surveyor took into account a maximum windspeed of 
68mph, and photos, including some Mr B had shared with QIC, including some of the loft. 
The surveyor said the roof was in good condition and hed have expected to see damage to 
it if it had been lifted and moved by the storm. Internally he noted some slipped wall plates. 
He felt there was limited tying in of the roof structure  completely in line with regulations 
from the time the house was built  and that this is known to be a cause of roof spread. So 
he concluded the damage was consistent with roof spread occurring over a long time and 
not the storm.
QICs report was shared with Mr B. Mr B felt it was unpersuasive and flawed, not least as the 
surveyor had not physically seen the property, either before or after repairs. He noted this 
was not the case for the three experts whose reports he had presented (two from builders 
and one from his neighbours insurers loss adjuster). 
I reviewed the complaint in light of the new evidence. I issued a provisional decision to 
explain to both parties that I still intended to uphold it as initially set out to QIC, and why that 
was. My provisional findings were:  
Theres no doubt there was a storm. And as I noted initially, the prevailing windspeeds were 
up to a maximum of 83mph. Wind of that speed could typically damage a property in the way 
subject of this claim and complaint. The issue remains whether storm was the main cause of 
the damage. QIC has sought to argue it was not. 
I still think QICs initial assessment was flawed  the comment from the assessor was brief, 
and although photos were provided there was no explanation to accompany them. And 
I dont agree with QIC as to what it thinks the photos show. In any event, QIC has now, a 
year and a half after the damage occurred and the claim was made to it by its policyholder, 
obtained a more detailed expert report.
I bear in mind though that, as Mr B has pointed out, the surveyor has not seen the property 
at all. Of course, visiting it now would likely hold little worth as the repairs have all been done 
(and paid for). But the surveyor, unlike the other experts which have commented, did not see 
the property in its damaged state. And his assessment of what may have happened 
internally in the loft space, to cause the damage, is based on a few photos taken by Mr B. 
Two builders repairing the property have shared their views that this damage was caused by 
storm. They saw and worked on the property. Mr B paid for the work shortly after it was 
completed. And their views were given later when Mr B asked for them. I think its fair to say 
they can be classed as independent  their views werent given with a view to appeasing 
Mr B to either encourage payment or agree work, for example. One said there had been no 
sign of age-related wear and that the house would not have suffered in normal weather 
conditions. The second said the roof was in overall good condition with no missing slates 
and internally it was structurally sound with no sign of water ingress. They both commented 
that the storm had caused the damage subject of the necessary repairs and that in the 
course of those repairs, many of the original materials were re-used. Ive also taken into account comment from the loss adjuster acting for Mr Bs neighbours 
insurer. I have to say, at this point, that in many situations, evidence of storm damage to a 
neighbouring property, would not be that relevant to my consideration of whether or not 
storm damage to the insured property had occurred. But I have to review each complaint on 
its own merits. And in considering this complaint Ive been mindful that whilst two homes are 
involved, in reality the issue in question is regarding one building, with one roof and with one 
instance of damage to be considered. So I think the findings of the loss adjuster, along with 
the instructing insurers settlement of the neighbours claim, are highly relevant to my 
consideration of Mr Bs complaint. And I think findings reached following a physical 
assessment are more persuasive than those reached based on considering photographs.
From detail provided the loss adjuster spent quite some time in the loft of the neighbours 
property. QICs original assessor did not enter Mr Bs loft, and, as mentioned, the surveyor 
did not visit the property. The loss adjuster also reviewed the estimate presented by the 
builder, detailing necessary repairs and the cost of the same. An extract of his report which 
the insurer has been prepared to share, says the claim relates to Storm damage sustained 
as a result of the high winds experienced which have lifted the roof structure and the roof 
trusses have shifted causing them to move forward and impact with the external brickwork to 
the front elevation. And: the estimate was found to be reasonable in terms of both scope 
and cost. The insurer subsequently settled the claim at the full cost of the estimate £23,980 
less its policyholders excess. 
I appreciate the surveyors view, taking into account the photos he saw. But Im mindful of 
the lower windspeed he took into account. And whilst he says the loft photos show limited 
tying in and slipped wall plates  the builders did not suggest that was the case. And Im 
satisfied that the loss adjuster, had clear evidence of such been present, would have flagged 
that, which would likely have impacted the outcome of that claim. I cant say that would 
definitely have happened. But I think it is most likely as a loss adjuster, in a claim like this, 
would routinely look for evidence of these types of issues and it would be unusual for an 
insurer to settle a claim like this where there was clear evidence of on-going structural 
movement caused by the way the property was built. 
Let me be clear, I am not discounting the surveyors findings, presented late in the claim as 
they have been. I accept that QIC feels they evidence its decline was fair and reasonable. 
However, having reviewed everything, I find I am most persuaded by the evidence Mr B has 
presented. I am satisfied that evidence shows the damage to his property was most likely 
caused by a storm, which he is entitled to cover for under the policy. QIC has not presented 
any reason, other than those discussed, for not settling matters as I initially said I thought 
was fair and reasonable. My suggested award will reimburse Mr Bs financial outlay. Ive also 
said QIC should pay £300 compensation for upset. Mr B has clearly spent time challenging 
its decision  but he got the work done regardless and I am awarding interest to account for 
the fact he has been without those funds. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that £300 
compensation for upset is fairly and reasonably due.
Mr B said he was happy with my provisional decision. QIC said it disagreed with it.
QIC said:
The decision by the neighbours insurer should not influence the outcome of Mr Bs claim 
 not enough is known about the policy and if the claims been covered as one of storm, 
the insurer has made a mistake.
The loss adjuster may be qualified to assess loss but is not qualified to give an expert 
opinion on the cause of damage to the building.
Its initial report was not as detailed as it could have been  but the photos taken by the 
assessor support the report findings.The surveyor it appointed in May 2023 provided detailed findings.
The surveyor is very experienced often providing special witness evidence in court.
An internet image from 2011 shows the roof to be in a poor state of repair.
Windspeed aside, qualified surveyors have determined the storm was not the cause of 
damage.
The property is not at the top of a hill or surrounded by fields and it has another property 
next to it  so, in its view, it is not exposed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered QICs objections to my provisional findings. But, by and large, the 
points it has made are ones considered by me in reaching my provisional decision. QIC 
raising them again doesnt give me cause to change my views. I note QICs view about the 
neighbours claim and the loss adjusters expertise. But I explained provisionally why I felt it 
was reasonable, in this specific circumstance, to place weight on that detail and evidence. 
Im not persuaded the internet image from 2011 does show the roof was in a poor state. 
I accept that the property does not sit by itself so, in that sense, I can see why QIC might not 
consider it to be exposed. However, photos presented by Mr B from the top of the scaffold 
do show it sits in an elevated position.
I remain satisfied by the findings I set out provisionally. They, along with my comments here, 
now form the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require QIC to pay Mr B:
£300, as reimbursement of make safe works, plus interest*.
£23,730, as reimbursement of the repair cost of £23,980 less the policy excess of £250, 
plus interest*.
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified, from the date 
Mr B paid these sums until settlement is made by QIC. HM Revenue & Customs may require 
QIC to take off tax from this interest. If asked, it must give Mr B a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman