DRN-3228103
The complaint
Ms R has complained that the delays incurred by ReAssure Limited in making a payment 
from her pension plan  in the 2021/22 tax year instead of the 2020/21 tax year - has 
resulted in her paying more tax (£1,390) than she otherwise would have. 
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint issued her assessment of it on 27 October 
2021, in which she set out the background, including a timeline, as to what had happened 
here. As neither party appears to have disagreed with that background, Im broadly setting 
out the same overview of events below. 
Ms R decided to fully encash her personal pension policy in March 2021 as she wasnt 
working at the time. She therefore wanted to utilise her tax free allowance by taking a 
payment in the 2020/21 tax year.
Ms R first contacted ReAssure about this, via her financial adviser, on 8 March 2021 and the 
following occurred after this date:
8 March 2021  ReAssure emailed Ms Rs adviser with the forms that needed to be 
completed to make the withdrawal.
9 March 2021  Ms R had a phone call with ReAssure, in which she mentioned shed 
like the payment by the end of the tax year.
11 March 2021  ReAssure received all completed forms from Ms R.
18 March 2021  Ms Rs adviser called ReAssure to chase the withdrawal.
19 March 2021  ReAssure told Ms Rs adviser that it would take 15 working days to 
process the payment.
25 March 2021  Ms Rs adviser called to chase ReAssure again. It confirmed it 
would make the payment on 26 March 2021 and this would then take three to five
working days to clear.
30 March 2021  Ms R called ReAssure to confirm whether the policy would be paid 
out before the end of the tax year. ReAssure recorded a call note following this 
saying can we please ensure payment made within this tax year. Ms Rs adviser 
also called on the same day and was told it would be chased up. ReAssure said that 
it should have quoted 20 working days previously, instead of 15.
7 April 2021  Ms R called ReAssure to confirm whether the payment had been
processed within the previous tax year. ReAssure confirmed it hadnt.
9 April 2021  ReAssure made the payment into Ms Rs bank account.
14 April 2021  ReAssure wrote to Ms R to confirm that the payment of £9,271 had 
now been processed.
So, in total, it took just over four weeks for Ms R to receive her payment once ReAssure had 
received all the required information.
Ms R complained to ReAssure, and in response it apologised for the delays and offered her 
£200 in respect of this, which included £25 for late payment interest. Dissatisfied with the 
response, however, Ms R referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld, saying the following in 
summary:
In accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers (ABI), she 
would expect that next steps would be taken by ReAssure within ten working days 
of it receiving the required information.
But she also took into account its internal service standard and whether this had 
been adhered to.
ReAssure had said that its internal service level agreement for processing payments 
was 15 working days. After this, it could take three to five working days for the 
payment to clear. 
But she considered an overall timescale of 20 working days to process the payment 
to be unreasonable  rather, the timescale of 15 working days quoted by ReAssure 
would be a reasonable timescale.
ReAssure had accepted that the payment was delayed, and the timeline indicated 
that it had taken 20 working days to make payment to Ms R. This meant that the 
payment fell into the next tax year. Had it been made within 15 working days, this 
would have been by 31 March 2021, and so would have fallen within the previous tax 
year, as shed requested.
Both Ms R and her adviser had contacted ReAssure on several occasions to 
emphasise the importance of the payment being made in the correct tax year, and so 
the requirement for Ms R to pay additional tax as a result of the late payment was a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence.
The investigator recommended that, in addition to the £200 payment, ReAssure should 
contact HMRC to determine whether the payment could instead be reported within the 
2020/21 tax year, but if this wasnt possible, it should compensate her for the additional tax 
liability shed incurred as a result of the delay in payment.
In response, ReAssure said that, although it considered that, if it was important to Ms R that 
the payment be made in the 2020/21 tax year, she could have requested it sooner than she 
did, it would be willing to consider the matter of the additional tax liability if Ms R was able to 
provide evidence of this.
The investigator enquired of ReAssure as to whether the letter it had itself sent to Ms R in 
April 2021 confirming that the amount of £1,390 had been deducted for tax was sufficient. 
The investigator said that, if it wasnt, ReAssure should confirm what else it would need.
Ms R also confirmed that she had no income for the 2020/21 tax year, but that she began to receive an annual pension from a previous employment in June 2021, amounting to just 
under £6,000 pa. When this was added to the ReAssure pension payment, it took her over 
the personal allowance threshold.
ReAssure said that it needed to be careful that it wouldnt be making a payment to Ms R 
which might in any case be made by HMRC as a tax rebate, and so it requested evidence of 
Ms Rs total income for the two tax years in question. It said that a P60 for the 2020/21 tax 
year would be suitable, but that, as Ms R had said that she received no income in that year, 
it would require evidence of this, for example confirmation from HMRC.
It also requested confirmation of the pension income Ms R had been receiving since June 
2021.
The investigator put the request to Ms R, but Ms R said that shed like the matter referred to 
an ombudsman for review, as she considered ReAssures requests for evidence to be 
delaying tactics in the hope that she would drop her claim.
Ms R further said that she hadnt had use of the £1,390 taken as tax for nine months and if 
ReAssure needed to wait until the end of the 2021/22 tax year to verify her income, this 
would be a further four to six months before she received the amount. But she also provided 
her self-assessment tax calculation for 2020/21, which indicated that she had no income and 
paid no tax. She also provided a receipt for artwork shed sold in the 2021/22 tax year, which 
was dated 1 September 2021.
ReAssure then said that, although the payment was applied to the policy in the 2021/22 tax 
year, the form of discharge date used to calculate it was 1 April 2021, and therefore within 
the 2020/21 tax year. It said that, if it had been recorded in the correct tax year, then Ms R 
would need to apply to HMRC for a refund. But if it had been recorded as being paid in the 
wrong tax year  2021/22  then ReAssure said that it would reimburse Ms R the excess tax 
which had been deducted.
In response to a further enquiry from the investigator as to the evidence it would need to 
reimburse Ms R, ReAssure said that the self-assessment calculation provided by Ms R 
wasnt sufficient as it was her version of the tax return she submitted to HMRC and was only 
95% complete. The receipt for the artwork also didnt evidence her employment status for 
the 2021/22 tax year, ReAssure added.
ReAssure said that it would need evidence such as Ms Rs P60 for the 2020/21 tax year 
showing her income and tax liability for the year, or confirmation from HMRC of her earned 
income for that year.
The matter was referred for review by an ombudsman, as requested by Ms R, but more 
recently (December 2022) she said that shed spoken to HMRC about both tax years and 
that it had decided to check her self-assessment for 2020/21 due to her having virtually no 
income.
Ms R said that she would find a way to provide the information from HMRC, but I cant see 
that this has been submitted yet.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. I dont think I need to reiterate the rationale for upholding the complaint, 
as ReAssure has said that, should it be determined that Ms R has been disadvantaged by 
paying tax on the pension withdrawal in the 2021/22 tax year rather than paying no tax on it 
had it been made in the 2020/21 tax year, it will reimburse this to her. But suffice to say, I do 
agree with the investigator that the delays encountered here would warrant this course of 
action.
And so the outstanding matter here is one of ReAssure being satisfied that, had the payment 
been made in 2020/21, Ms R wouldnt have paid tax on it. And I dont think its requests for 
confirmation of this are unreasonable. I appreciate Ms Rs frustrations and her own firm 
conviction that, had the payment been made in the correct tax year she would have paid no 
tax on it. And I have no reason to doubt this. But I do think ReAssure isnt acting 
unreasonably in requesting confirmation of this.
And similarly, I think it has a point when it says that the evidence submitted to date doesnt 
quite tick the necessary boxes. As with Re-Assure, I also note that the self-assessment 
submission says that it was only 95% complete, and I agree that, whilst the receipt for sold 
artwork in 2021/22 evidences some income, it doesnt provide the confirmation required by 
ReAssure that the income for that year took Ms R over the personal allowance threshold and 
that she therefore paid tax on the pension withdrawal which she otherwise wouldnt, had it 
been made in 2020/21.
Putting things right
I agree that ReAssure should reimburse Ms R the amount of tax she wouldnt have paid, had 
the pension withdrawal been made and recorded in the 2020/21 tax year. But I think its fair 
and reasonable that this is dependent upon Ms R providing the evidence that ReAssure has 
requested.
I also agree with Ms R that shes been deprived of the use of that money since the tax was 
deducted, and so I might ordinarily conclude that simple interest at the rate of 8% pa should 
be added from the point at which it was taken (my understanding is that this was the date of 
the pension payment), to the date of settlement. 
But I also think that, had Ms R responded to ReAssures request for a P60 or other 
confirmation from HMRC as to her employment/income status in 2020/21 after it was 
requested in September 2022, the matter might have already been resolved. This isnt a 
criticism of Ms R, as I appreciate that shes been frustrated by the need for evidence of what 
she clearly believes to be self evident from the information shes already provided. But I do 
need to be fair to both parties, and as Ive said above, I dont think Re-Assures requests for 
the additional evidence are unreasonable. I also think that the £200 payment made in April 
2021 would satisfactorily address the matter of Ms R having been without the use of the 
money from then until September 2022.
But if ReAssure takes longer than 28 days from the date of Ms R providing the requested 
evidence to make payment to her, then 8% pa simple interest should be added to the 
amount from the date of Ms R providing the evidence up to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and, subject to it receiving the requested 
evidence, direct ReAssure Limited to make payment to Ms R of any excess tax shes paid as 
a result of the pension payment being made in the 2021/22 tax year, as opposed to the one 
before.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman