DRN-2673606
The complaint
Mrs L through a professional representative complains that Gale and Phillipson Investment 
Services Ltd (G&P) gave her unsuitable advice to take out a level annuity. The 
representative says she wasnt warned of the impact of inflation. And had she been given all 
the information she required, she wouldve chosen to take a low cost, low risk income 
drawdown product.
What happened
In August 2011 Mrs L approached G&P to get advice on what to do with her pension. An 
annuity was recommended, which started in October 2011. This annuity was to pay a fixed 
level amount each year  without escalation.
More recently through a representative, Mrs L has complained that the advice was 
unsuitable for her. The representative contends that Mrs L was not made sufficiently aware 
of the impact of inflation on her income in the future. And she was not properly informed of 
the alternatives, such as a low risk, low cost drawdown. And had she been informed, she 
would have chosen the drawdown route.
G&P say it provided suitable, and complete, advice. Theyve pointed out that Mrs Ls stated 
goal was for a guaranteed income for life  and that she was risk averse  and therefore a 
level annuity was suitable for her needs. And its also pointed out that the drawdown 
products around at the time, wouldnt likely have been accessible to Mrs L.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think the advice was unsuitable for Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator (that a level annuity 
wasnt unsuitable for Mrs L) and broadly for the same reasons.
I say this because:
It was recorded at the time Mrs L required an immediate fixed income stream with no 
risk.
The suitability report also recorded that lengthy discussion occurred about risk and 
reward but Mrs L indicated her overall attitude to risk to be risk averse as she was 
unwilling to take any stock market risk.
It was also recorded you are prepared to take the inflationary risk this implies.
According to the suitability report, the other options such as drawdown were explored 
but discounted.
Drawdown wouldve exposed Mrs Ls funds in retirement to risk which doesnt fit with 
her stated goals or attitude to risk
It was made clear to her at the time the pension wouldnt increase, and Mrs L was 
aware of the impact of both escalation and inflation.
Drawdown products at the time generally required a minimum value in excess of 
what Mrs L had in this policy. I think its unlikely she wouldve been able to find a 
provider to accept her as a client. And even if she couldve done so, I dont think it 
wouldve been demonstrably more suitable than a level annuity considering her 
circumstances.
I dont think a low cost, low risk drawdown product, as suggested by the 
representative, existed then.
Mrs L had health conditions and was able to secure an impaired health annuity due 
to this. Drawdown wouldnt have secured any enhancements due to impaired health.
The representatives position appears to be that a level annuity is inherently unsuitable  but 
I dont agree. Mrs Ls circumstances recorded at the time show that she was risk averse, 
was made aware of the impact of inflation, and realistically she didnt have access to the 
drawdown products available at the time. So I dont think the recommendation of a level 
annuity was unsuitable, it seems to me to match Mrs Ls stated requirements at the time. 
And I think she was given the relevant information to make an informed choice.
Ultimately it is for me to decide whether the advice was unsuitable, not whether it was the 
most suitable advice, and I dont think the advice was unsuitable for Mrs Ls circumstances 
at the time.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman