DRN-3837357
The complaint
Mrs H complains about advice she says she was given by Portland Financial Services 
Limited, an appointed representative (AR) of Sesame Limited, to withdraw funds from a 
Scottish Widows Investment Bond and invest the money in a Stirling Mortimer No. 7 Cape 
Verde (SM7) investment. This was a high-risk, unregulated investment and it now appears 
that Mrs H has lost a significant amount of money. Mrs H thinks that Sesame is responsible 
for her loss.
Mrs Hs representative made this complaint on her behalf, but for ease of reading, Ill simply 
refer to Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs H says that in 2008, Mr S, of Portland, advised her to withdraw £20,000 from a Scottish 
Widows Investment Bond and invest in SM7, an unregulated investment. In October 2008, 
€25,816 was invested in SM7. Unfortunately, this investment appears to have performed 
badly and Mrs H is worried that shes lost a significant amount of money.
Mrs H considers that Portland gave her unsuitable advice to encash funds from the Scottish 
Widows Bond and invest in SM7. In brief, Mrs H felt the SM7 investment had been 
unsuitable for her, given the high-risk nature of it. She said she didnt want to take risks with 
her funds, which she intended to use during her retirement. As Portlands principal, Mrs H 
believes that Sesame should be held responsible for her losses and should put her in the 
financial position shed have been in had her funds remained invested in the Scottish 
Widows bond. And so she complained to Sesame about the investment advice shed been 
given by Portland.
Sesame didnt think it was responsible for Mrs Hs losses. Briefly, it said that given SM7 had 
been an unregulated, high-risk investment, it wouldnt have given Portland permission to sell 
it because it didnt allow the sales of these types of contract. It said the advice had been 
given outside of Portlands permissions and Sesames knowledge. And it said it had no 
record of any documentation for the advice Mrs H had been given.
Moreover, Sesame considered that Mrs H had made her complaint out of time. It said that 
following the global crash of 2008, the Spanish property market had fallen into recession. 
And in 2010, fraud had been discovered in the SM7 fund. It also said that investors in the 
fund had been issued with newsletters and in 2017, a newsletter was issued which stated 
that legal action had been taken to recover the funds. So it considered that by 2017 at the 
latest, Mrs H ought to have been aware of a cause for complaint. Therefore, it said she 
ought to have complained by 2020. But she hadnt complained until January 2021. 
Mrs H was unhappy with Sesames position, and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
Sesame maintained that the complaint had been made out of time and didnt consent to us 
looking into it.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint had been made in time. She acknowledged 
that the newsletters Sesame had referred to stated that the Serious Fraud Office had been 
looking into the misappropriation of funds in SM7. But Mrs H said shed never received these 
letters and there was no evidence to show that theyd been sent. Mrs H did have copies of 
her investment portfolio valuations from 2017 and 2020. In 2017, the SM7 investment had 
been valued at £33,224  which appeared to show growth. The 2020 valuation showed a 
value of TBC  and it was at this point that the investigator thought Mrs H ought to have 
been reasonably aware of a cause for complaint. As Mrs H had complained in 2021, the 
investigator felt Mrs H had complained within three years of becoming aware of a potential 
issue with the advice shed been given.
Next, the investigator considered whether Sesame was responsible for the acts Mrs H had 
complained about. She felt that Mrs H had likely been advised to invest in SM7. And she 
concluded that by giving advice to buy or sell investments, Mr S of Portland had been 
carrying out a regulated activity. She accepted that Sesame hadnt authorised Portland to 
advise on unregulated investments. But she noted that Sesame had authorised Portland to 
give advice on investment bonds. And in this case, Mr S had advised Mrs H to disinvest 
funds from the Scottish Windows bond to invest in SM7. So she concluded that these two 
transactions were intrinsically linked. The investigator found no evidence that Mr S had been 
working for any other firm at the time of the advice and so she concluded it was most likely 
that Mr S had been representing Portland at this time. Overall, she felt Sesame was 
responsible for the acts Mrs H had complained about. This meant she considered that the 
complaint was within our jurisdiction.
The investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. At the time of the advice, 
Mrs H had already been over state pension age. And there was no evidence to show why 
disinvestment from a relatively low-risk bond into the high-risk SM7 investment had been 
recommended. So the investigator concluded that the advice had been unsuitable for Mrs H, 
and she recommended that Sesame should pay Mrs H fair compensation.
Sesame disagreed  although it maintained that the complaint had been made out of time 
and so said it wasnt commenting on the merits. It stated that while Mrs H couldnt remember 
receiving any updates, it didnt mean that none had been sent. It said the scale of the 
problem with the SM7 investment had been made clear in 2010 and 12 months later a 
follow-up made it clear that the only prospect of an investment return was through legal 
action. It argued the annual reports were a statutory document which were sent to all 
investors and these shouldve set alarm bells ringing that all might not be well with the 
investment. It therefore asked for the matter of jurisdiction to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
Our investigator let Sesame know that I intended to decide the issues of jurisdiction and 
merits together. She asked Sesame to provide any evidence it wanted me to consider 
regarding the merits of Mrs Hs complaint. However, Sesame didnt provide anything more.
My findings on jurisdiction
I have looked at all the evidence and submissions to decide whether this is a complaint we 
have jurisdiction to consider.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
The rules which govern the operation of our service are part of the regulators handbook. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) section sets out that we cant consider a complaint that has 
been made to the respondent business (or referred to us) more than:Six years after the matter complained about; or (if later)
Three years after Mrs H became aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, that she had cause for complaint.
The act Mrs H has complained about is the encashment of funds from a Scottish Widows 
investment bond to make the SM7 investment. Mrs H says she didnt know the SM7 
investment was unregulated and it wasnt suitable for her.
There is no documentary evidence about the advice or when exactly the advice was given. 
But it appears that £20,000 was encashed from the Scottish Widows bond in September 
2008 and the SM7 investment was made a short time later. So I think its likely that the 
advice was given in or around September 2008.
Mrs H referred her complaint to Sesame in January 2021. This is clearly more than six years 
after the advice was given. So, the crucial issue for me to decide is whether the complaint 
was also made outside the second part of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than 
three years after Mrs H knew, or ought reasonably to have known, she had cause to 
complain. Because the complaint was made in January 2021, the question becomes 
whether she knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that she had cause to complain 
before January 2018.
Sesame considers that Mrs H should have become aware of a cause for complaint about 
Portlands advice by 2017 at the latest. Its provided copies of newsletters which it says were 
sent to all SM7 investors in 2016 and 2017. Broadly, these newsletters show that the 
Serious Fraud Office was investigating the SM7 fund and there was likely to be litigation.
However, Mrs H has consistently told us that she didnt receive copies of these newsletters. 
While  as Ive set out above  Sesame has sent us copies of the 2016 and 2017 letters, 
these arent specifically addressed to Mrs H. Theres no evidence on file that copies of these 
newsletters were sent to Mrs H, or if they were, when. And in this case, Mrs H made a direct 
investment into SM7. She didnt invest her funds into SM7 through a SIPP or other similar 
wrapper. If she had, its more likely that shed have received annual reports from a SIPP 
provider etc. But in this case, she says she was reliant on the updates she was given by Mr 
S, who she states didnt tell her that SM7 was in difficulty and Im satisfied this is most likely 
in the circumstances here.
And Ive seen copies of the November 2017 and 2020 valuations of Mrs Hs investment 
portfolio. In 2017, Mrs Hs SM7 investment was valued at £33,224 Whilst this represented 
only modest growth on her initial investment, there had been some growth, and by Mrs Hs 
account, she was an unsophisticated investor. And I dont think there was anything in this 
valuation to lead Mrs H to conclude that her investment could be or was at risk. Mrs H hasnt 
provided us with a copy of the valuation statements for the 2018 and 2019 years, so it isnt 
clear whether they were sent or not. 
The 2020 valuation, however, differs markedly from the 2017 valuation, in that the value of 
the SM7 investment was given as TBC. In my view, based on the available evidence, it 
seems it was at this point, in November 2020, that Mrs H ought to have been prompted to 
realise that there might be an issue with the investment and that the advice to invest in SM7 
may not have been suitable for her. Id add that even if valuations were sent in November 
2018 and 2019 which showed a TBC value, these would likely have been sent after January 
2018. So I think the complaint would still have been brought within three years of any 2018-
dated valuation.Based on the above, I think theres insufficient evidence to show that Mrs H ought to have 
been aware that she had cause for complaint before January 2018. So, I find that shes 
made her complaint within our time limits.
Is Sesame responsible for Portlands actions?
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at 2.3.3G says that: 
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas accepted responsibility). 
And Section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) says: 
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Recent case law makes it clear a principal firm can limit its responsibility to only part of the 
business conducted by an appointed representative. It was dealt with in the case of 
Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834. The courts approach was endorsed by the 
Court of Appeal. In the Anderson case, the judge, Mr Justice Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the principal which are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
To decide whether Sesame is responsible for Portlands actions here, there are three issues 
I need to consider: 
 What are the specific acts Mrs H has complained about?
  Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities? 
 Did Sesame accept responsibility for those acts? 
What are the specific acts Mrs H has complained about? 
Mrs H complains that Sesame gave her unsuitable advice to encash funds from her Scottish 
Widows investment bond and invest in SM7, an unregulated investment.
Does the complaint involve a regulated activity?
DISP 2.3.1 states that the Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory 
Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more specified 
activities, including regulated activities and ancillary activities.
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order 2001 (RAO) and 
include advising on investments and arranging investments.As Ive explained above, Mrs Hs complaint is about the advice she says she was given to 
encash funds from her Scottish Widows bond to make the investment in SM7. There is no 
fact-find or reasons why letter which sets out that Mrs H was given this advice or who it was 
given by.
But I think its most likely that Mrs H did receive such advice and I think its most likely it was 
given by Mr S. I dont think shed have undertaken these actions unless theyd been 
recommended to her and Mrs H has been consistent and plausible in her recollections. 
While Ive noted that Sesame states theres no evidence that Mr S gave Mrs H such advice, I 
have seen evidence from Scottish Widows which shows that Mr S submitted the paperwork 
requesting the encashment of £20,000 from the bond.  I find its most likely too, given his 
involvement in the encashment transaction, that he advised and arranged the investment 
into SM7. 
The bond is a relevant investment under the RAO and as set out above, giving advice on or 
making arrangements in relation to relevant investments are regulated activities. And Im 
also satisfied that the advice to enter into SM7 was ancillary to the advice Mr S gave to Mrs 
H about her bond. So, Im satisfied the acts being complained about were regulated activities 
or ancillary to regulated activities.
Is Sesame responsible (under our rules) for the acts being complained about?
The DISP rules allow us to consider complaints against businesses such as Sesame 
involving their appointed representatives and agents. As Ive set out above, DISP 2.3.1R 
says we can: 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Having considered all of the available evidence, I am satisfied that Mr S was acting for 
Portland when he advised Mrs H to withdraw funds from the bond. I have seen the 
encashment forms which were sent to Scottish Widows and I can see that these were 
completed by Mr S acting on behalf of Portland. In my view then, this makes it more likely 
than not that Mr S was also acting on behalf of Portland when he advised Mrs H to invest her 
withdrawn funds in SM7. 
In relation to whether Sesame is responsible for Mr S acts on behalf of Portland, I have 
carefully considered the relevant case law. In my view, the key issue is whether Mr S was 
acting within the terms of the contract between Portland and Sesame when conducting the 
acts which are the subject of this complaint.
Sesame has provided us with copies of its contract with Portland, its compliance manual and 
its Scope of Permissions document. I can see that Sesame did limit the business that 
Portland was allowed to carry out to a list of specific activities and specific products. And 
indeed, the Scope of Permissions document expressly excluded unregulated investments 
from the products Portland could advise on.
However, the list of activities and products that Portland could advise on included investment 
bonds. So, my view is that Portland was authorised to give advice about the merits of selling 
or encashing funds from Mrs Hs Scottish Widows Investment bond. That is what happened 
here.Its clear that this complaint involves advice about SM7 too. But, while I accept Sesame 
didnt give its authority for Portland to give advice about SM7, this was essentially one act  
a single stream of advice to sell the Scottish Widows bond to invest in SM7.
In such situations, theres well established case law that we can hold the principal 
responsible for the act even if part of what was done was not authorised. I accept that the 
Anderson v Sense Network case established that a principal can restrict the permission it 
gives to an appointed representative. But I note that in the case of TenetConnect v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin), Mr Justice Ouseley said:
Of course, the FSMA draws a clear distinction between regulated and unregulated 
activities. But that does not answer the question of what activities amount to 
regulated activities where a single braided stream of advice is given to a client about 
regulated and unregulated investments. Paragraph 53 of the 2001 Order deals with 
advising as a specified kind of activity, it is a regulated activity when advising in 
relation to a specified investment on the merits of an investor or potential investor 
selling a relevant investment. Rule 2.3.1 of DISP2 provides that a complaint can be 
considered if it relates to an act or omission by a firm carrying on one or more of the 
following activities. Carrying on an activity includes offering or providing or failing to 
provide a service in relation to an activity. That language does not permit a bright line 
to be drawn between advice on selling the regulated investment and buying the 
unregulated investment, where the purpose of the sale is to enable a purchase. The 
advice on such a sale is inextricably linked to the advice on the purchase. A bright 
line, one side of which is regulated and on the other side of which is unregulated, 
would only reflect the facts of the situation where the regulated and unregulated 
activities were themselves brightly divided. But their edges may be blurred; or they 
may be inextricably linked. The law governing the Ombudsmans jurisdiction could 
not force facts into unrealistic compartmentalisation without undermining its purpose 
and effectiveness
[Counsel for the principal] was concerned at the description of buying and selling as 
intrinsically linked. On these facts, that is a fair characterisation of the relationship, 
but it cannot be a sound general description of every relationship between selling and 
buying investments. I do not think that the Ombudsmans description of the advice to 
buy or the purchase transactions themselves as ancillary to the advice to sell is 
accurate. Neither aspect of the advice was in reality ancillary here; both were the 
significant components of the single stream of advice; the regulated advice was 
motivated by the proposals for unregulated investment. The FSMA intended that 
regulated activity, and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction should be part of a financial 
service consumers protection. The legislative provisions should be construed so 
that, if part of what is done as a single activity is regulated, the whole is regulated 
rather than the other way round. Otherwise, the regulated part loses the protection 
which the FSMA requires that it should have. If, to accord that protection, aspects 
which by themselves would not be regulated are brought into the protective scope of 
regulation and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction, those giving advice will have to make 
sure that their regulated and unregulated activities are separated, rather than using 
the unregulated to escape the consequences of intermingling them with the 
regulated.
So, if one component activity of advice is regulated and another is unregulated, the effect of 
FSMA is that the whole advice is regulated. 
Here, arrangements were made for Mrs H to withdraw funds from her Scottish Widows bond 
to be invested in SM7. I havent been provided with anything that suggests Mr S wasnt 
allowed to carry out regulated activities in relation to the bond  indeed, the evidence explicitly indicates that he was. So, Im satisfied the activities he carried out in relation to that 
product fell within the actual authority of Portland. So even if one component activity in the 
advice (the advice to enter into SM7) was unauthorised  as Sesame says it was and as 
Anderson v Sense Network made clear was allowed  I havent seen anything that suggests 
the remainder was. And therefore, the SM7 recommendation was made in the course of 
business for which Sesame accepted responsibility.
So I think Sesame did, under section 39 FSMA, accept responsibility for the acts conducted 
by Mr S of Portland in recommending the encashment of the Scottish Widows investment 
bond for the investment in SM7. So, I find that we do have jurisdiction to consider the merits 
of Mrs Hs complaint against Sesame  which Ill now explore below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's my view that I have jurisdiction and that I have all the information I need to look into Mrs 
Hs complaint. Given the nature of our role to resolve complaints which are within our 
jurisdiction speedily and with minimal formality, I now set out my conclusions on the merits of 
Mrs Hs complaint also. And I note that the investigator made it clear to Sesame that this 
might be the next step.
In giving advice to Mrs H, Mr S ought to have made a recommendation that was consistent 
with her investment objectives and her personal and financial circumstances. He should 
have given her a written recommendation with reasons. Mrs H says that Mr S didnt provide 
her with any such documentation before recommending the encashment of the Scottish 
Widows bond to make the investment in SM7.
Based on the evidence I do have; Mrs H was aged 69 years at the time the advice was given 
and was in state-retirement age. She says she was a cautious investor  which appears to 
be borne out by the valuation statements Ive referred to above. These show that Mrs H held 
other cash and investment bonds with Scottish Widows  and the investment bonds are 
noted to be cautious.
Looking at the above, I dont think Mrs H was a particularly experienced or sophisticated 
investor. I think she was likely reliant on the advice she was given by Mr S. And given she 
told us she depended on her investments to fund her retirement, I dont think shed have 
wished to or indeed, had the capacity to take risks with any investment funds at her disposal.
It seems most likely that Mrs H was given advice by Mr S to invest a significant sum into 
SM7. This was an unregulated investment, which was high risk and speculative. There was 
a possibility it would fail and Mrs Hs entire investment would be lost. So, I think the advice 
Mr S on behalf of Portland gave to Mrs H to disinvest her Scottish Widows bond and invest 
in SM7 was clearly unsuitable.
As such, I think Sesame should now compensate Mrs H for her losses
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs H should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if everything had happened as it should have. I take the view that Mrs H 
wouldnt have moved her investment and indeed, Mrs H says that she would have left the funds in the Scottish Widows bond. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable.
In summary, Sesame should:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs H has suffered as a result of moving her investment and pay 
Mrs H compensation for that loss.
2. Take ownership of the SM7 investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs H.
4. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by the consumer.
Ill explain how Sesame should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs H has suffered as a result of moving her investment and 
pay Mrs H compensation for that loss.
To do this, Sesame should work out the likely value of Mrs Hs previous investment as at the 
date of this decision, had she left it where it was.
Sesame should ask Scottish Widows, Mrs Hs previous investment provider, to calculate 
what the current value of that investment would be had she remained in it. I note from 
Scottish Widows documentation that some funds do remain within the bond. But, if there are 
any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-
year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England should be used to calculate the 
value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved.
This value should be compared to the value of the SM7 investment at the date of this 
decision and this will show the loss Mrs H has suffered. Mrs H should be paid compensation 
for that loss.
2. Take ownership of the SM7 investment
If Sesame is able to purchase the investment, then the price paid should be allowed for in 
the current value of the investment.
If Sesame is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Sesame may ask Mrs H to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payments she might receive from the 
investment in future. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on 
the amount Mrs H may receive from the investment. Sesame will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
3. Trouble and upset
Sesame must pay Mrs H £300 for the material distress and inconvenience I think its ARs 
unsuitable advice caused her. I dont doubt that Mrs H was caused substantial worry and 
upset when she learned that shed been given unsuitable advice to encash part of her Scottish Widows bond and that it appeared shed lost the entire value of the SM7 
investment. So I think its fair and reasonable that Sesame should compensate Mrs H for the 
trouble and upset its ARs actions caused her.
4. Pay interest
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mrs H within 28 days of the date 
Sesame receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added 
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement if it takes the business longer than 28 days to pay Mrs H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sesame deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs H how much has been taken off. Sesame should give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if the consumer asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I have decided that this complaint is within our jurisdiction. 
And for the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I direct Sesame Ltd to pay Mrs H the fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman