DRN-4140707
The complaint
B, a company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly blocked its current account on 
several occasions without having a good reason to do so. 
What happened
B is a company which operates a private health clinic. During the Covid-19 pandemic its 
business was affected, because it had to cancel or postpone appointments. It also applied 
for and was granted a bounce-back loan through Barclays, which it had to repay because it 
had already obtained a loan through a different provider. 
In addition, Bs director says that two of its staff left the business, taking clients details with 
them. In addition, they damaged property and arranged for unfavourable reviews to be 
posted online, in an attempt to damage Bs reputation and take its business. The director 
says that the police and Information Commissioner were informed.      
Barclays blocked Bs current account on five occasions between August 2020 and July 
2021. The dates were:
23 to 25 August 2020;
8 to 10 September 2020;
26 to 28 April 2021;
20 to 25 June 2021; and 
28 June to 2 July 2021.
The final two blocks were very close together, so may have appeared to be a single, more 
lengthy, restriction on the account. 
B complained to Barclays about the bocks placed on the account. Its director said that they 
had had an impact on Bs ability to continue to run its business. It was unable to pay staff 
and suppliers while it did not have access to funds, and its reputation had been damaged. 
Barclays explained that it had placed the blocks on the account in order to meet its 
regulatory requirements. While each block was in place, it carried out a review of the 
account. It says it did so in a timely manner, so that any disruption to the business was kept 
to a minimum. 
B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator concluded that the bank had acted in line with its regulatory 
requirements and reviewed the account and lifted restrictions in a timely manner. 
B did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.  
Barclays says, and I accept, that the account reviews were not connected with the difficulties 
brought about by Covid-19, the bounce-back loan or the actions of the former employees of 
B. Nor were they all for the same reason. 
Banks are in certain circumstances required to review accounts, in line with their regulatory 
duties. It is usual for a block to be placed on an account while any review is completed. I am 
satisfied that Barclays acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations in this case. I 
believe too that it acted promptly in carrying out its reviews and that it lifted the blocks within 
a reasonable time. 
I do not doubt of course that the blocks on the account had the effect that Bs director has 
said they had. It is likely that, because this was a business account, B suffered a financial 
loss as a result. But I can only require the bank to make good that loss if I am satisfied that it 
acted in error. For the reasons I have explained, I dont believe that it did.   
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further steps to 
resolve Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman