DRN-2426009
The complaint
Mrs M is complaining about a whole of life policy she has held with Countrywide Assurance 
Plc since 1985.
What happened
Her complaint points are:
She was never provided with the original policy documents which meant she wasnt 
told about her cooling-off rights
She wasnt given the terms and conditions for the policy
She wasnt told about the policy charges
She wasnt told premiums would increase when she took out the policy and when 
she was given information about this in 2014 the percentage increase of her 
premiums has been higher than stated
She asked for a full breakdown of premiums paid since the start of the policy but has 
only been given the last seven years
She wants an explanation as to why the amount taken in charges and fees over the 
last five years is significantly higher than the policys increased value and how this is 
justified when shes experiencing financial difficulties
Why was she told to contact the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
when they can only help on policies sold after 1988?
Why do the terms and conditions say the policy fee is £1 per month when the 
charges are £6.20 per month?
An investigator at this service did not feel her complaint should be upheld, saying:
Given the passage of time there wasnt sufficient evidence to conclude that 
Countrywide had failed to provide the original paperwork, something businesses do 
automatically when a policy is taken out
Countrywide said they did issue this paperwork and resent it to Mrs M in 2014 when 
she made enquiries about the plan
Further, Mrs M took out this policy via an independent financial advisor (IFA) and it 
was their responsibility to ensure she received the paperwork and fully understood 
the nature of the policy
This documentation would have explained how the policy worked including the 
potential for premium rises, something which was a standard feature of renewable 
whole of life policies; again it would have been her IFAs responsibility to explain this 
feature
Countrywide is only required to retain documentation  such as its annual review 
letters - for seven years so it was not unreasonable for it not to be able to access the 
earlier letters now; there was no reason to conclude it had not been sending letters 
from the outset
When Mrs M complained to Countrywide, in 2014, about the suitability of the policy it 
correctly pointed out that it was not responsible for the advice, and that the IFA 
concerned was no longer a registered advisor. It therefore correctly referred her to 
the FSCS. The fact that it could not consider her referral  due to the date the advice 
had taken place  did not mean Countrywide was wrong to refer her to this body
She had considered all on Mrs Ms other points but was satisfied that Countrywide 
had not done anything wrong
Finally, she noted that Mrs M had also complained about the suitability of the advice she 
received , and other issues, but that these had been considered previously by an 
ombudsman, so it wasnt appropriate or necessary to consider them again.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed, and said:
She disagreed with all the investigators findings
She has first-hand knowledge of everything which has occurred since 1985 and her 
testimony appears to have been ignored
The investigator has simply sided with the business
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
her detailed arguments (which I briefly summarised above).
Its important to explain that my role is to decide if there is sufficient evidence to fairly and 
safely conclude that a business did something wrong. In this instance I dont believe there is 
such evidence. I recognise that Mrs M feels very strongly about these issues but that alone 
is not sufficient for me to uphold the complaint. I must assess whether the evidence overall is 
enough to conclude that Countrywide has done something wrong.
Businesses automatically send out all the necessary documentation when a policy is issued, 
and this includes key terms such as how the premiums will be reviewed. I recognise that on 
occasions mistakes do occur and paperwork can get lost. But in this case I think it is more 
likely than not that Mrs M and/or her IFA would have told Countrywide if no documentation 
had arrived. Her IFA would have been well aware of the importance of the cooling-off letter 
and would, I believe, have picked up on this if one had not arrived. 
Equally, Countrywides files show they re-sent this documentation in 2014 - although Mrs M 
says she never received anything).
I also do not believe there is any reason why Countrywide would not have sent annual 
review letters from the outset. The fact that it no longer retains paperwork from more than 
seven years ago does not, in my view, suggest these letters were never produced or sent.I understand that Mrs M has been unhappy with this policy and the reviewability of the 
premiums but it was the responsibility of her IFA to explain this. Countrywide merely sold the 
policy. Overall, having considered all of Mrs Ms points, I have seen no persuasive evidence 
to indicate it has done anything wrong. The cost of premiums and charges can and do often 
increase over the lifetime of a policy such as this and businesses are not required to take 
account of a customers financial circumstances when deciding on such changes.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman