DRN-3193431
The complaint
Mr K complains that his claim for damage to his mobile phone under his Mobile and Gadget 
insurance was unfairly declined by Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust). He has also asked for 
a refund of the premiums he paid as he feels the policy wasnt fit for purpose. 
What happened
Mr K took out gadget insurance with Amtrust on 26 September 2018. At the time of his 
complaint I understand that three phones were listed under the policy  an iPhone 8 plus, an 
iPhone 7 and a Samsung Galaxy S10 Plus.
Mr K made a claim on 21 September 2020 for damage to his Samsung phone. But his claim 
was rejected a couple of days later. Amtrust said they couldnt insure devices purchased 
from the store Mr K had bought the phone from. They said devices purchased from that 
store were second-hand. And said that as that store cant provide the original purchase 
receipt, Mr Ks claim didnt meet their policy criteria.
Mr K was extremely disappointed with Amtrusts decision to decline his claim. So on 30 
September 2020 he complained. He said hed never claimed on the policy. And that hed 
understood the terms and conditions to mean that the policy covered used items, as long as 
the proof of purchase was provided. He said he took that to mean the receipt for his 
purchase of the phone, not the first purchase. He said the terms and conditions werent clear 
on this point. He said that as all three of the phones covered by his policy were similar 
purchases to the one for which the claim had been declined, the policy wasnt fit for purpose 
for him. He asked to cancel his policy. And said he expected a full refund of the premiums 
hed paid. Amtrust said the policy was cancelled on 17 February 2021.
Amtrust asked Mr K to clarify which devices he felt hadnt been suitable for cover under the 
policy. Mr K confirmed that all three of the phones listed for cover had been purchased 
second hand, without him having access to the original proof of purchase. He felt that his 
policy wasnt fit for purpose under the circumstances. 
Amtrust asked Mr K to provide proof of purchase from the places hed bought the three 
devices. And asked for the purchase date for the phone the claim was about.
On 5 November 2020, Amtrust e-mailed Mr K. They repeated their request for proof of 
purchase for the three devices so that they could backdate the refund theyd discussed with 
him.
On 11 November 2020, Mr K complained to Amtrust. He said that for a claim to be valid for a 
second-hand phone, the terms and conditions of the policy required EITHER proof of 
purchase OR a signed letter from the original owner, not both. He said that based on what 
Amtrust had told him, three of the phones listed under the policy hadnt been covered as 
theyd been purchased second-hand. He said that Amtrust staff had told him he would be 
refunded the full premium paid for the policy, as in their words it was not fit for purpose. He 
said hed been told that the refund process had started and that he would be refunded 
shortly. He also noted that hed been told the other two phones listed under the policy were 
covered, despite the fact that they too had been purchased second-hand, without letters 
from their original owners. He felt this confirmed that the policy wasnt fit for purpose. And 
that he should be refunded in full. 
In their final response letter, sent three months after the original claim, Amtrust said they 
declined the claim correctly as Mr K hadnt provided the details required under the terms of 
his policy. But they said that as theyd been able to confirm the phone the claim was for 
hadnt been subject to any previous claims or losses, theyd approve the claim.
Mr K replied the next day. He said that hed had the phone repaired himself when the claim 
was rejected, noting it was three months since hed made the claim. He said hed been 
offered a refund more than once, but that offer had been retracted. He said the policy has 
failed to fulfil its purpose. So he expected a full refund of all premiums paid. 
Amtrust replied the following day, noting that the offer to proceed with his claim had been 
made on an Ex Gratia basis. They said theyd consider reimbursement for the completed 
repair if he provided the receipt.  But that if the repair hadnt been completed by an approved 
engineer they said they might not be able to offer reimbursement.  They restated that 
gadgets purchased from the store hed used werent covered under the terms of the 
insurance. They said that the reason these gadgets arent covered is because that store only 
sells second-hand items. They said that because items bought from that store are second 
hand, Mr K was required to meet the terms of the policy, which they detailed. 
Amtrust acknowledged that Mr K wanted a refund. But didnt agree that the policy wasnt fit 
for purpose. They said that his claim had been correctly declined in the first instance.  
Mr K didnt agree with Amtrust. He said that the information hed provided clearly fulfilled the 
policys terms and conditions. So asked why the claim was rejected in the first place. He said 
that hed had the phone repaired for £150. But that he no longer had the receipt as he didn't 
expect to need it. He said the process had been needlessly traumatic. And that hed been 
left out of pocket for the repair of the phone, while still paying the premium each month.
Amtrust replied to Mr K. They said that the original purchase receipt would show when the 
device was bought new, whereas the receipt from the store Mr K had bought his phone from 
didnt meet that requirement. And that this is why the original purchase receipt is needed. 
They said that as Mr K couldnt confirm the repairer was approved, or provide a receipt for 
the repair, there was nothing more they could do.
Mr K didnt agree. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think his complaint should be upheld. Although he agreed that the 
claim had been incorrectly declined, he felt that Amtrusts offer to repair the phone was fair. 
He didnt think it was unreasonable for Amtrust to require evidence of the cost of the repair. 
He also considered Mr Ks request for full reimbursement for the policy costs. He didnt 
agree that these should be reimbursed, as he considered that his devices had been covered 
over the period of the policy. 
Mr K didnt agree. So the complaint came to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2021. It said:
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I disagree with our investigator that the claim was unfairly declined in the first place. But I consider that compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Amtrust have caused Mr K should be paid. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
The key question Ive had to consider here is whether Mr Ks policy was fit for purpose for 
any of the three phones he thought were covered. 
Should a refund be given?
From what Ive seen, Mr K was initially offered a full refund of his policy premium. But this 
offer was retracted when Amtrust determined that his iPhone 8 Plus had been purchased 
new. Mr K said it had been purchased refurbished. Either way, the policys criteria allow a 
phone thats been purchased new or refurbished to be covered:
Criteria: We can only insure gadget(s) that are: 
1. purchased new or refurbished from a UK VAT registered (or the equivalent tax if 
purchased overseas) company and supplied with a proof of purchase.  
Before Amtrust had been able to verify whether any of Mr Ks phones had been covered by 
the policy, its agents had told Mr K that they needed proof of purchase for the devices. Once 
hed provided that, Amtrust realised that one of his phones was eligible for cover. Therefore 
on 6 November 2020, they retracted their offer to refund his premiums. 
Mr K had been paying to cover three phones on a three-gadget family bundle. Amtrust told 
this service that: the policy is not rated on a single gadget so as we have confirmed an item 
is insurable we cannot offer a partial refund. I do acknowledge that Mr K doesnt think it fair. 
He was told that he would get a refund. But this was at a time when Amtrust felt that all three 
of his phones had been ineligible for cover. As one of Mr Ks phones was eligible for cover, 
he did receive cover for that device. So Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for the 
premium paid not to be refunded.
I also need to consider whether Mr Ks claim was fairly declined in the first instance. 
Was the initial claim fairly declined?
Amtrust declined Mr Ks claim for damage to his Samsung Galaxy S10 Plus due to lack of 
proof of ownership. They said that they needed the original purchase receipt AND a letter of 
transfer from the original owner for a phone to be insurable. And they noted that these are 
not obtainable from the store Mr K bought his phone from. I dont agree that the terms of the 
policy require both of these. I consider that they only require one of them. 
But I disagree with our investigator that Amtrust unfairly declined the initial claim. The 
relevant policy terms state:
Criteria: We can only insure gadget(s) that are: 
1. purchased new or refurbished from a UK VAT registered (or the equivalent tax if 
purchased overseas) company and supplied with a proof of purchase. 
2. purchased second-hand or gifted to you, provided that you have the proof of purchase 
(which corresponds to notes 1 above) or a signed letter from the original owner confirming 
that you own the gadget(s).
So Im satisfied that the terms of the policy do state that the phones purchased second-hand require the original proof of purchase from new OR a signed letter from the original owner. 
Im satisfied neither of these are available from the store Mr K bought his phone from.
I can see why Mr K felt hed provided sufficient proof of purchase based on his reading of the 
terms. I dont consider that its completely clear on first reading that the proof of purchase 
required is the original proof of purchase from when the phone was first bought. 
I acknowledge that its extremely disappointing for Mr K that three months after declining his 
claim, Amtrust said theyd approve it. At this point, hed already had his phone repaired. And 
hed had no reason to seek out an approved repairer or to keep the receipt for his repair. I 
also agree that its a reasonable request for an insurer to ask for a receipt to prove the 
customers loss before theyll cover a claim.
But I dont think its fair or reasonable for Amtrust to expect Mr K to have that receipt 
available three months later. Or to have sought out an approved repairer when his claim had 
already been declined. Ill consider how to put this right in the next section.
Distress and inconvenience
From what Ive seen, Mr K was told his premiums would be refunded due to all three of his 
phones not being eligible for cover. This offer was then retracted once it had been 
established that one of Mr Ks phones was in fact eligible for cover. It must have been 
frustrating for Mr K to be offered one thing and then have it retracted. Especially when more 
than one Amtrust representative told him the same thing.
Mr K was also told that two of his mobiles had been eligible for cover. But Amtrust now say 
that only one of his phones was eligible. This must also have been confusing and frustrating 
for Mr K. In their final response letter Amtrust also referred to Mr K having purchased a 5-
gadget bundle. But they subsequently confirmed to this service that hed purchased a 3-
gadget bundle.
I also note that Amtrust continue to state that Mr K needed to provide both the original 
purchase receipt and a letter of transfer from the original owner. But I dont agree this is the 
case. It is one or the other that is needed under the terms of the policy. I can see why this 
has caused further confusion and frustration for Mr K.  
I also consider that it was unfair of Amtrust to expect Mr K to be able to both retrospectively 
supply a receipt for repairs carried out three months ago and to have used an authorised 
repairer. 
In light of the various incorrect things Mr K was told, I consider that Amtrust should pay him 
compensation for the confusion, distress and inconvenience theyve caused him. I 
acknowledge that theyve told this service that they consider they answered all Mr Ks 
questions in a timely manner. So they dont consider compensation to be payable. But I dont 
agree. Based on what Ive seen, I intend to ask Amtrust to pay Mr K £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience theyve caused him.
Response to my provisional decision
Amtrust had nothing to add to my provisional decision. Mr K didnt respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr K £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited should pay Mr K £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman