DRN-3615559
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when she returned a car at the end of her finance agreement.
What happened
Mrs G entered into a hire agreement, the agreement ended in April 2021 and Mrs G returned 
the car. She says shes unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied when 
she returned the car. Mrs G told us:
She decided to return the car when she ended her finance agreement, having 
already had the car valued by a third party, and satisfied herself that the car was 
worth more than the balloon payment outstanding on the finance agreement;
the car was inspected when it was collected, and damage to all four wheels along 
with a scratch and a dent on a passenger door were highlighted;
MBFS sent her an invoice for £1,942.76 to cover the damage she was aware of, but 
it also added charges for four new tyres and some damage to both the front and rear 
bumpers;
she complained about the invoice and MBFS acknowledged the charges for damage 
to the bumpers were added in error and it agreed to reduce the amount owed by 
£420;
she accepts the charges for the wheel damage and scratches, and has offered to pay 
this to MBFS, but she says she shouldnt have to pay for four new tyres;
she couldve sold the car privately and settled the outstanding balance owed to 
MBFS (and made a profit), but it wouldnt return the car to her;
MBFS failed to take account of the fact that the mileage on the car was less than it 
couldve been  her allowance was 8,000 miles each year, but shed only driven the 
equivalent of 5,000 each year;
shed already experienced problems with MBFS  it caused her hardship when it 
failed to activate the agreement until 32 months after shed signed it, and she then 
had to repay the finance over the remaining 12 months.
MBFS rejected this complaint. It said the car was collected in June 2021 and inspected twice 
by an independent third party, the second time it was taken to a site for a detailed inspection, 
which took place on 11 June. MBFS said that following Mrs Gs complaint, it had reviewed 
the charges and agreed to remove three of them and it reduced the invoice to £1,487.76. 
MBFS said its Vehicle Returns Standards (VRS) document detailed the expected return 
condition of Mrs Gs car, and a copy of this wouldve been provided to Mrs G when she first 
took out her finance agreement, and again six months before it finished. MBFS said Mrs G 
had had ample opportunity to familiarise herself with its fair wear and tear expectations and 
this provided her with the opportunity to have any repairs carried out before the car was 
returned and inspected.
MBFS said the only area of disagreement with Mrs G is the charge for the four new tyres. It 
explained that the tyres needed to be run flats and therefore needed replacing as Mrs G 
was required to return the vehicle in accordance with its original specification.
Mrs G disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said that this Service couldnt look at her 
complaint about MBFS failure to activate her finance agreement and the hardship it had 
caused. This was because shed brought it to us out of time; more than six months had 
elapsed since MBFS had issued its final response on the matter.
He also explained that although with hindsight Mrs G mightve been better off selling the car 
privately, it had been her decision to end the finance agreement early and return the car to 
MBFS. And it wasnt wrong for MBFS to retain the car and sell it  it didnt need to consider 
returning it to Mrs G. He also confirmed that as the credit agreement made no reference to a 
refund if Mrs G were to drive less than her mileage allowance each year, he couldnt ask 
MBFS to compensate her for this.
But he did say he didnt think it was right for MBFS to charge Mrs G in full for the four new 
run flat tyres. He said hed taken into account that Mrs G had replaced some of the tyres at 
her own cost, and he said MBFS should take this into account and offset this cost against 
the charge for the four new tyres.
MBFS disagreed. It said the car was built and supplied with run flat tyres and the finance 
agreement stipulated that the car was to be returned with run flat tyres.
My initial conclusions are set out in my provisional decision from July 2022. In it I said I didnt 
think this complaint should be upheld and I explained my reasons for this as follows:
Mrs G acknowledges there was damage to the wheels and that there were also a couple of 
scratches on one of the panels and shes told us that shes already offered to pay MBFS for 
this. Because theres no disagreement between the parties on these matters, I dont need to 
make a finding about these particular charges.
It seems to me that the only outstanding area where the parties disagree relates to the 
charges for the four new tyres fitted to the car by MBFS. Miss G says she shouldnt have to 
pay for these because shed already had some new tyres fitted and the car had recently 
passed its MOT  so the tyres were clearly road legal. MBFS says the tyres fitted by Mrs G 
werent to the standard they shouldve been, so it had no choice but to remove them, destroy 
them and fit the car with tyres of the correct specification. It then passed on the cost of the 
new tyres to Mrs G.
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Mrs G, set out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the car. It clearly sets out that an assessment will be made in 
line with the VRS and it sets out what the acceptable conditions are, with examples, and 
what conditions are unacceptable. And it says that the vehicle must be returned to the 
specification as originally supplied. Theres also a sub heading for wheels and tyres, and 
this also confirms that Your vehicle must conform to the original specification of the vehicle.
Ive noted Mrs Gs comments about the car passing its MOT just a week before she returned 
it, and her conclusion that the tyres shed fitted were satisfactory because they were road 
legal. But the agreement she signed didnt set the requirement as being road legal tyres, it 
said the tyres had to be of the same specification as when the vehicle was first supplied to 
her and MBFS has confirmed that the vehicle was supplied with run flat tyres
Ive also consulted the fair wear and tear guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVLRA) because these are accepted as an industry standard in 
determining whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. Ive looked 
carefully at what it says in regard to tyres. It says, All tyresmust meet minimum UK legal 
requirements and comply with the vehicle manufacturers recommendations of tyre type, 
class.
Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied that the vehicle needed returning with run flat 
tyres. And in the event that this didnt happen, I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to 
charge Mrs G the cost of having run flat tyres fitted to the car. Im therefore satisfied that the 
charges MBFS asked Mrs G to pay were applied fairly and in line with relevant industry 
guidance and Mrs Gs finance agreement and that MBFS has acted fairly in respect of the 
charges it applied.
And I asked each party to let me have any further information that theyd like me to consider. 
MBFS provided no further comments.
Mrs G said shed not been told about the second inspection, and she wasnt told at the first 
inspection that there was a problem with the tyres. She said the new tyres that shed had 
fitted to the car were road legal and MBFS shouldve done more to highlight the costs 
before she made the decision to return the car. Mrs G also said she required evidence that 
MBFS had in fact changed the tyres on the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Mrs G made a number of submissions, some of which 
shed made previously. As I had already considered these points in my provisional decision, 
in the absence of any new evidence, I dont intend to revisit them again here.
Im satisfied that 
Mrs G made the decision to return the car to MBFS.
Mrs G was, by her own admission, aware of damage to all four wheels during the first 
inspection.
Mrs G wouldve been provided with MBFS VRS document when she first took out 
the finance agreement, and again six months before the end of the agreement. And 
this document set out the standards and conditions that the car needed to meet when 
it was returned.
the charges MBFS asked Mrs G to pay were applied fairly and in line with relevant 
industry guidance and Mrs Gs finance agreement.
MBFS has acted fairly in respect of the charges it applied.
Mrs G says MBFS should provide evidence that it changed the tyres and it should provide 
details of where the car was sold. Ive considered this carefully, but I simply dont agree. 
MBFS is under no obligation to provide this information, and it isnt relevant to Mrs Gs 
complaint.
I say this because Mrs G wouldve incurred the same charges even if MBFS had been 
unable to sell the car, or indeed chosen not to sell the car. This is because the charges are 
applied in respect of damage to the car that goes beyond fair wear and tear, or the notional loss in value because the car isnt returned in the condition that was agreed when Mrs G 
signed her credit agreement.
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman