DRN-2499385
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc made a charge of £25 for making a 
CHAPS payment from his current account. He says that he didnt request this payment 
method and the bank didnt tell him that there would be a charge.
What happened
Mr B telephoned the bank to ask how he could arrange a transfer from his account with 
them. The bank asked to him to write to them with full details of his account and the 
beneficiary details to which the payment was to be sent. They also told him where to send 
his written authority.
The bank made the payment by CHAPS but the amount taken from Mr Bs account was for 
£25 more than the he had authorised. So, Mr B complained to the bank by email. He told 
them that he wasnt happy with the £25 charge that had been made as he had previously 
been led to understand that transfers were free of charge.
The bank replied to Mr B in writing. They didnt agree that theyd made a mistake here and 
said that a £25 charge is applied to same day CHAPS transfers. They told Mr B that details 
of the charges were provided when he opened the account and could be found on their 
website.
Mr B responded to the bank telling them that he didnt specifically ask for a same day or 
CHAPS payment and that in any event, the payment was delivered outside the stated 
service standards for CHAPS.
The bank replied to Mr B and again didnt agree that they had made a mistake here. Mr B 
was still unhappy, so he decided to refer his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. She thought 
that the bank hadnt treated Mr B fairly in this matter and said that they should pay Mr B £50 
to cover the fee charged and to recognise the upset caused.
 
The bank didnt agree with our adjudicators view, so they asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to a recording of Mr Bs call to the bank. He told them that hed like to 
transfer £15,000. How do I best do this? They asked Mr B to put his request in writing 
including his account details and those of the beneficiary. He was asked to sign the letter 
and was given an address to send his letter.
The call was short in length and Mr B appeared happy with the solution provided to him. But 
there was no discussion around timescales for the payment or the method of payment to be 
used. It wasnt clear whether the transfer was between Mr Bs own accounts or to a third 
party. It also wasnt established whether the transfer was to be within the UK or to be 
transferred internationally. The bank didnt ask for any more details from Mr B.
For an enquiry of this nature, I would expect the bank to seek more information about what 
Mr B was trying to achieve. This would then help them to understand Mr Bs needs and 
recommend the most appropriate solution to meet them. I cant see that this happened here.
Mr B later rang back in response to a message left for him by the bank. Ive been provided 
with a transcript of this call. He was asked if he had sent a letter to make a payment to. 
Mr B replied, Yes £15,000, yes. The bank said, thats perfect, well do that transfer today 
for you.
This was a very short call. Again, the bank made no mention to Mr B of how the transfer 
would be made, the timescale in which the money would be received or any associated 
costs.
In their reply to Mr Bs complaint, the bank referred to the terms and conditions for his 
current account and pointed out that a £25 charge is applied for a same day CHAPS 
transfer. They also told Mr B that information on there fees and charges were provided to 
him when he opened the account and can also be found on their website. The bank provided 
us with a copy of their latest charges. I can see that the charge they mention is clearly 
detailed.
 
Although I accept the banks insistence that their charges are published, there is no 
evidence that they told Mr B, at any point, which payment method would be used. So, even if 
Mr B had details of their charges to hand, there would be no suggestion that a fee for a 
CHAPS payment would be payable here. Mr B only learned this after the payment had been 
processed.
The bank told us that Mr B didnt use internet banking although it was available to him. I 
have seen no evidence to suggest that this was discussed or offered to him as an option. 
Theyve also said that Mr B didnt have a branch in his locality that he could visit. So, making 
the transfer as a CHAPS payment was the only option available to them. But I dont think its 
fair to assume that Mr B would know this. I also cant see how the bank could assume that 
Mr B didnt have a branch near him as the question wasnt asked. They had no way of 
knowing where he was at the time that he called. At the very least, I would expect the bank 
to check with him first if this was an option.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think that the bank has acted reasonably with Mr B 
here. Mr B was asking for advice about how to make a payment from his current account. 
Options werent discussed, timescales for the payment werent established and charges 
werent explained. So, I shall be upholding Mr Bs complaint to the bank.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay to Mr B £50 
representing a refund of the charge made and to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman