DRN-4371815
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim under a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms W contacted Aviva to make a claim for storm damage when a wall partially collapsed 
between her and her neighbours property. Aviva sent a surveyor to assess the wall and then 
declined the claim. It said the damage was the result of a gradually operating cause, which 
wasnt covered by the policy.
When Ms W complained, Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Ms W 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was 
reasonable for Aviva to rely on its surveyors findings that the damage was the result of a 
gradually operating cause and to decline the claim.
As Ms W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I should note that Im aware Ms W didnt think the complaint should be about Aviva, as this 
wasnt one of the companies she had been dealing with. Ive checked the policy documents 
and Im satisfied that Aviva was the underwriter for the policy and that the complaint is 
against the right company.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
It isnt in dispute that there was a storm, but Ive also checked the weather around the time 
of the claim and saw there were wind speeds that would be considered storm strength. I also 
think a storm could damage a garden wall in some circumstances. So, I think the answer to 
the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. Ive looked at 
Avivas surveyor report. This said the wall showed signs of mortar deterioration and signs 
the wall had previously been repaired with cement. It also said there had been underlying 
issues with the affected areas of the wall and that sometimes it was likely the collapse was 
caused by a gradual build up of pressure and vegetation growth causing the wall to break 
down. The report said the wall showed signs of age and deterioration over years and the 
poor weather had highlighted this. Ive also looked at the photos, which show issues with the 
mortar and vegetation within the wall. So, I think the report explained why the damage 
wasnt due to the storm, which instead seemed to highlight the pre-existing issues. Ive also 
looked at the policy documents, which said that gradually operating causes, such as wear 
and tear or damage that happened over time, werent covered by the policy.
Im aware Ms W disagrees there was vegetation growing on the wall before it collapsed, but 
Im satisfied the report showed there were pre-existing issues with the wall, including 
showing photos of the vegetation. Aviva also reviewed the claim on a few occasions to see if 
there was cover under the policy and decided there wasnt. So, I think Aviva took steps to 
ensure it properly assessed the claim and Ms Ws concerns.
Ms W also said her neighbours insurer had accepted the neighbours claim for the wall and 
was willing to pay towards its repair. Ms W provided this service with a copy of the other 
insurers surveyor report. The first time the surveyor visited, despite being there to assess 
the neighbours claim, he was only able to view the wall from Ms Ws garden as the 
neighbour wasnt available. This said Ms Ws side of the wall did not appear to be in a well-
maintained state.
The other insurers surveyor later returned to inspect the neighbours wall from the 
neighbours garden and updated the report. This said the surveyor was surprised by the 
difference in maintenance conditions of the stone walls and noted that a cyclical 
maintenance regime had been in place on the neighbours side of the wall. The report said 
the surveyor believed the external boundary walls have been regularly maintained and that 
[the neighbours] side of the wall had been damage[d] by a lack of historic maintenance on 
[Ms Ws] side.
I dont have a view on the other insurers decision to deal with the neighbours claim. 
However, I think the surveyor report, like Avivas report, highlighted pre-existing issues with 
Ms Ws side of the wall and didnt think it was a well-maintained wall. The report highlighted 
how different Ms Ws side of the wall was to the condition of the wall on the neighbours side. 
So, I dont think a different insurer accepting the neighbours claim showed that it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to decline Ms Ws claim.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decline Ms Ws claim for 
damage to the wall because of gradually operating causes, which werent covered by the 
policy. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do anything further in 
relation to it.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman