DRN-1676138
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland t/a Halifax wont cover the cost of repairing her faulty 
TV. Mrs D paid for the TV using her Halifax credit card and she made a claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mrs D is represented in this complaint by Mr D. But for ease, Ill refer to Mrs D throughout 
this decision.
What happened
In January 2017, Mrs D bought a TV from a merchant Ill refer to as E for around £1,900. A 
couple of years later, Mrs D noticed there was black spots in the LCD screen. An inspection 
was carried out on the TV and the report explained the black spots in the screen were, in 
fact, down to little insects that had entered into the screen. It also confirmed that this wasnt 
a manufacturing defect and wasnt damage which was covered under the warranty. 
Therefore, Mrs D needed to pay to have the repair done. Mrs D thinks this is unfair and feels 
the warranty should cover the repair.
Mrs D also complains that E were supposed to provide her with appliance insurance at the 
point of sale. However, it later transpired that Mrs D wasnt sold the insurance cover. E 
honoured the insurance policy Mrs D was supposed to have by providing her with their own 
policy which they said would provide Mrs D with the same cover as the insurer.
Halifax didnt uphold Mrs Ds section 75 claim. They didnt think there had been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation as the merchant had confirmed that the issue Mrs D was 
experiencing wasnt covered for repairs under the warranty. Mrs D didnt agree, so she 
brought her complaint to our service to consider.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds concerns. In summary, she said there hadnt been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. She explained that Mrs D hadnt experienced issues 
with the TV until a couple of years after shed bought it. And at the time of buying it, the TV 
was in working order and there were no issues or faults noted at the time. Our investigator 
also said based on the independent report, it was clear the issue Mrs D reported wasnt a 
manufacturing issue. So, she didnt uphold the complaint and thought Halifax had dealt with 
Mrs Ds section 75 claim fairly.
Mrs D disagreed. She said she didnt feel the explanation of the insects being in the LCD 
screen was a plausible one and that this cant be proven. Mrs D also said the manufacturer 
have confirmed the fault cannot be repaired as theyve stopped making a particular part 
which is needed for the repair. Mrs D says this has caused her a lot of stress and has 
impacted her health. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide what, if anything, Halifax should do to resolve Mrs Ds complaint. To do
that, I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other
things) any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75 and section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and also the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
Mrs Ds complaint about the TV not being of satisfactory quality
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the credit card account holder has
an equal right to claim against the credit card provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. So, in Mrs Ds case, section 75 of the
CCA makes Halifax responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
under certain conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct relationship 
between the debtor (Mrs D) the creditor (Halifax) and the supplier (E). Im satisfied that the 
necessary relationship exists, and that Mrs Ds claim is within the financial limits set out in 
the CCA.
The CRA says that goods should be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. The quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory - taking into account things like the description, age and price of the goods.
Mrs D bought the TV in 2017 and didnt experience the issue she complains of until a couple 
of years later. While I can understand how frustrated Mrs D is with the TVs quality, Im not 
persuaded Halifax have acted unfairly in not upholding her claim and complaint. 
I say this because an independent inspection has been carried out on the TV. Its confirmed 
that the black marks which are caused by insects isnt considered a defect. The report also 
notes that this isnt covered under warranty repair. The report refers to the manufacturers 
repair guide, which Ive looked at. This guide explains due to the small gaps on the TV which 
allow for cooling and thermal expansion, the insects can get inside the LCD screen. It also 
notes that the insects werent present during manufacturing and that this isnt a 
manufacturing defect. It seems that this issue is as a result of an external factor, rather than 
the TV not being durable or fit for purpose. 
As it appears, on balance, I dont have enough evidence to suggest the insects in the TV 
were as a result of the TV being of unsatisfactory quality. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs D, but Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the TV. For this reason, I dont think Halifax acted 
unfairly in declining Mrs Ds claim. 
I appreciate Mrs D doesnt think its plausible for insects to get inside the LCD screen. 
However, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the issue Mrs D complains about 
is as a result of anything other than the insects  especially given the independent report 
makes reference to the insects being the issue.
Mrs Ds complaint about not being given appliance insurance at the point of sale
Ive also had regard to section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This is because it says 
that any negotiations between Mrs D and E, as the supplier, are deemed to have been 
conducted by E as an agent for Halifax.
Mrs D says the retailer didnt provide her with the appliance insurance cover that was agreed 
at the point of sale. Mrs D says had she been provided with this, the insurer would have 
replaced or repaired the TV. The retailer acknowledged that the appliance insurance wasnt 
provided to Mrs D and this was down to human error. The retailer said once they realised 
this, they provided Mrs D with their own insurance cover which they said would have 
provided Mrs D with the same cover as the appliance insurance. Having considered what both parties have said, I think there has been a breach of contract here. I say this because 
Mrs D wasnt sold the insurance policy that was agreed at the point of sale.
I asked for a copy of the insurers policy terms and conditions to determine if the event Mrs D 
complains about would have been covered, had the contract been properly performed. And 
to also determine if there has been any financial loss caused to Mrs D as a result of the 
breach. Having looked at the insurers terms and conditions, I couldnt see anything to 
suggest that an event like this would have been covered by their appliance insurance.
I appreciate Mrs D says had she been sold the appliance insurance from the outset, she 
wouldve been able to successfully claim on the insurance and the insurer wouldve replaced 
her TV. I understand Mrs D feels strongly about the matter, but I havent seen any evidence 
to persuade me that Mrs Ds TV wouldve been replaced as she says. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman