DRN-3068474
Complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) unfairly reinstated the overdraft on 
his current account without permission, in March 2019, once hed completed a repayment 
plan.
Background
Mr D repaid his overdraft after completing an arrangement to repay throughout 2018. The 
completion of the arrangement was to result in the facility being closed. However, in     
March 2019, BOS restored Mr Ds overdraft without him making any sort of application for it. 
And after spending the funds, Mr D complained that the overdraft should never have been 
restored to his account. 
When it investigated Mr Ds complaint, BOS agreed it shouldnt have restored Mr Ds 
overdraft. It credited Mr Ds account with £800 to clear the overdraft and also paid him a 
further £100 to cover any distress and inconvenience caused. Mr D remained dissatisfied 
and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and eventually reached the conclusion that 
what BOS had already done to put things right for Mr D was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of his complaint. Mr D disagreed and the case was passed to an ombudsman 
for review.  
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this, isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
provided, increased or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges as a result of the unfair 
decision. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges in 
question and if the consumer paid those interest and charges also add 8% simple interest 
per year.
In this case, BOS has agreed that it shouldnt have reinstated Mr Ds overdraft in March 
2019. And it cleared the balance in full. The £900, in total, it has paid to Mr D significantly 
exceeds the roughly £535 Mr D paid in interest, fees and charges. However, Mr D believes 
that BOS should do more. Although its not entirely clear what more Mr D wants BOS to do, 
given he accepted the adjudicators initial view I can only assume he wants to be paid the 
interest added to his overdraft from April 2019. 
Ive thought about what the parties have said. And even though BOS final response might 
not have explained this as clearly as it should have done, its clear that all the interest, fees 
and charges BOS shouldnt have added have already been recredited to Mr Ds account. 
Furthermore, even though Mr D would have been left with a balance - made up of funds 
which he used and benefitted from  to repay, BOS also cleared this. So not only has Mr D 
already been refunded the interest, fees and charges hes asking for, BOS did more than 
what Id normally ask a bank to do to put things right for a consumer in such cases. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Mr D has said about absolutely 
disagreeing with the adjudicators eventual outcome and him having repaid £96 a month for 
ten months. But Mr Ds repayment arrangement was agreed and completed before his 
overdraft was reinstated and it doesnt alter the fact that hes already been refunded what he 
appears to be asking for here, whether or not this was mentioned at the time. 
Mr D says that he thought he would be in a position where hed be free from his overdraft 
after making the payments to his repayment plan. And thats precisely the position hes been 
placed in after BOS put things right for him. So making a further award, in these 
circumstances and especially where Mr D has been already paid more than his loss, would 
place Mr D in a far more advantageous position than he would have been had BOS not 
reinstated his overdraft. And I dont think that would be fair and reasonable here. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what BOS has already done to put things right 
for Mr D  crediting his account with £900 (which is far in excess of the interest, fees and 
charges Mr D paid on the overdraft he should never have been provided with)  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done 
to put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman