DRN-4211581
Complaint
Mr M has complained about loans Lendable Ltd (trading as Lendable) provided to him. He 
says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Lendable provided Mr M with a first loan for £2,000.00 in April 2020. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 23 monthly instalments of £110.75 and a final instalment of £133.07. In         
December 2020, Mr M was provided with a second loan for £3,000.00. This loan also had a 
24-month term with 23 monthly repayments of around £145.95 followed by a final repayment 
of £153.61. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Lendable had told us and didnt 
recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Mr M with loans for £3,000.00 and £3,000.00 in April 2020 and  
December 2020. These loans were due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments. Lendable 
says it agreed to Mr Ms applications after he provided details of his monthly income and 
some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a 
credit search it carried out. And all of this information showed Mr M could comfortably afford 
to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has said the loans 
were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Lendable have said. The first thing for me to say 
is that Lendable has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. Lendable 
searches appear to show that Mr M did have some existing debts but that his commitments 
at the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr 
Ms debt total at the time of the applications was low in comparison to his income. 
Ive also kept in mind that Lendable provided a second loan to Mr M and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But loan 2 wasnt for much more 
than the amount of loan 1. The combined monthly payments werent excessive either. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr M might have taken loan 
2 because of the effect loan 1 might have left on his finances. And there isnt anything else 
obvious in these applications which clearly demonstrates Mr M couldnt have afforded the 
loans either. Indeed, the credit search carried out showed that Mr Ms indebtedness had 
reduced in the period between the applications for loan 1 and loan 2.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Lendable obtained. But the key here is that its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, 
Im satisfied that Lendable was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr M. I say this while especially 
mindful that we havent been provided with anything which demonstrates the loans were 
obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ms indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Lendable treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman