DRN-2698546
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society miscalculated their interest on their 
respective cash ISAs. In relation to that issue, Mrs B also complains that she was 
discriminated against.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B each have a sole cash ISA with Nationwide. The accounts were opened on 
the same date with almost identical balances (a difference of around £15, between two five-
figure sums), and closed on the same date. Mr and Mrs B complained that neither of them 
had been paid as much interest as they should have. Nationwide agreed (on the basis that it 
ought to have notified them of a better interest rate and had failed to do so), and paid them 
their respective shortfalls (plus £150 each for their inconvenience), but it paid Mrs B less 
interest than Mr B. Mrs B complained that she was being discriminated against. Nationwide 
denied discrimination, and said that it had only paid her less because the problem had 
affected Mr Bs account for a longer period than Mrs Bs.
Being dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs B brought this complaint to our 
Service. (Although this complaint is about two separate accounts, Nationwide has agreed 
that this matter may be treated as one complaint, and so the accounts and complaints have 
been dealt with together.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She accepted that Nationwide had paid Mr 
and Mrs B different amounts only because their compensation related to different periods of 
time. Mrs Bs related to a period ending in September 2018, but her husbands complaint 
related to a longer period which had ended in November of that year. She therefore did not 
agree that there had been any discrimination, or that Nationwide needed to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B did not accept that opinion. They asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr B 
made very detailed further submissions, and although he sometimes raised new issues, 
I have confined this decision to the subject matter of the original complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The essence of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs B both missed out on the opportunity to 
invest at a higher interest rate in 2018. Nationwide has already accepted responsibility for 
that, so I do not need to reconsider that issue here. The only issues I need to consider are 
whether Mr and Mrs B have been fairly compensated for that, and whether Nationwide 
discriminated against Mrs B by awarding her less compensation than her husband.
The compensation Nationwide agreed to pay was the difference between the interest Mr and 
Mrs B actually received, and how much interest they could have earned but for Nationwides 
failure to tell them about the better opportunity which they both missed out on. The reason 
for the different amounts of compensation is that although Nationwide failed to tell them 
about that opportunity in May 2018 (which when it should have done), it wrote to Mrs B 
about it in September 2018, but it wrote separately to Mr B about it in November. So first 
Mrs B and then, some two months later, Mr B were informed of the matters Nationwide had 
neglected to tell them in May.
From, respectively, September and November, Mrs and Mr B then had the information  and 
the opportunity to act on that information  which had been denied to them since May. For 
that reason, I agree with Nationwide and with our investigator that no further compensation 
is due to them for any period after they had each been so informed. Mr and Mrs B have 
asked to be compensated for a longer period of time (up to the date that their accounts were 
closed), but I do not think that is necessary, because Nationwides error did not deprive them 
of any money during that time. During that later period, they were in the position they would 
have been in if nothing had gone wrong in the first place.
Im satisfied that Mrs B has not been given a lower remedial interest rate than her husband, 
and that the different amounts of compensation were arrived at by applying the same rate, 
pro rata, over different periods. I dont think that writing to them about the matter at different 
times is itself discriminatory; although Nationwide has been unable to explain this, I dont 
think it follows that I can infer that it was done in bad faith, or because of a protected 
characteristic under the Equality Act. (But if I had taken a different view about that, then it 
would have been Mr B, not his wife, who would have been the one being treated less 
favourably, since he was without his money for longer.)
I therefore do not uphold this complaint  not because Nationwide did nothing wrong, but 
because it has already done enough to put things right, and because it did not discriminate 
against Mrs B in doing so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman