DRN-2314017
The complaint
Ms H applied for a mortgage with Skipton Building Society and is unhappy that two years 
later she had issues with the roof which werent mentioned in the valuation report when she 
bought the property.
What happened
Ms H applied for a mortgage with Skipton for a property she was looking to buy. The 
application was made through a mortgage broker and the application form noted that Ms H 
wanted the basic mortgage valuation (rather than a homebuyers report or building survey).
The valuation was carried out and the property was deemed as suitable security for a 
mortgage. The property purchase completed in September 2016.
In December 2018 Ms H had the roof inspected as shed had issues with water ingress 
following some bad weather. Ms H says that, when she was buying the property, the vendor 
had told her the roof was new, but the roofer that inspected it in 2018 said it wasnt new.
Following an insurance claim Ms H complained to her insurance company, Skipton and the 
solicitor shed used for the purchase. An ombudsman colleague has already issued a 
decision in respect of Ms Hs complaint about the insurance claim, and we cant consider a 
complaint about Ms Hs solicitor. So all that leaves us to decide here is whether Skipton did 
anything wrong when Ms H bought the property.
Our investigator said we couldnt deal with a complaint about the surveyor, only about 
Skiptons acts or omissions. And having considered the complaint he thought Skipton hadnt 
done anything wrong. Ms H didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome. 
Skipton doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Skiptons not accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any acts or 
omissions by the surveyor or the firm they work for. 
Skipton is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Skipton is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and 
having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Ms H has sent us a valuation report from April 2016 that was carried out by a firm Ill call J, 
whereas the report that was attached to the mortgage offer was carried out in July 2016 and 
was undertaken by a firm Ill call C. Its not clear why two separate valuations were 
undertaken but Ive not looked into that as it doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. 
Thats because they were both basic mortgage valuations, and the notes on both say:
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO APPLICANT
1. This Report and Valuation has been obtained by the Society from a Valuer or firm of 
Valuers. IT IS A VALUATION FOR MORTGAGE PURPOSES, NOT A BUILDING 
SURVEY AND SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS SUCH.
2. Intending purchasers should note the Society does not warrant that the purchase 
price is reasonable. They should carefully consider whether a more detailed 
inspection and report should be obtained on their own behalf.
3. This copy of a Report by the Society's Valuer is made for Society purposes and is not 
intended by the Society to give any warranty representation or assurance that the 
statements and opinions expressed or implied in it are valid or accurate.
4. The Valuer(s) has/have made this Report to Skipton Building Society (and its 
successors and assignees) on the basis that he/they accept no responsibility to 
anyone other than Skipton Building Society (and its successors and assignees) even 
if the Valuer(s) is/are negligent in relation to the Report.
5. THIS REPORT AND VALUATION HAS BEEN CARRIED OUT BY AN EXTERNAL 
VALUER OR FIRM OF VALUERS.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Ms H found herself in, with the roof (and 
then subsequently the interior of the property) needing repairs. But I can only consider a 
complaint against Skipton and none of that was Skiptons fault or responsibility.
I cant consider a complaint about the valuation or the surveyor. Even if there were flaws with 
the valuation (and to be clear Im not saying there were or there werent, as it isnt something 
thats within my remit to decide) thats not something I can consider in a complaint against 
Skipton as the surveyor worked for a different company.
I understand Ms H feels Skipton owed her a higher duty of care, and that as Skipton failed to 
inform her or her legal representatives that the roof had not been looked at means their 
service was poor. But thats not the case. Ms H had chosen the property she wanted to buy, 
and Skipton had no responsibility for ensuring that was a good purchase over and above 
being satisfied it was a suitable property to secure a mortgage on (which it was, irrespective 
of any potential issues with the roof). Skipton also had no responsibility to ensure that the 
vendor hadnt misrepresented anything about the property; thats a matter between Ms H, 
the vendor and their respective legal representatives. 
The valuation undertaken for Skipton was simply to check that the property would be 
considered suitable security for a mortgage, which it was. If Ms H wanted to check the 
property was a good purchase then she needed to instruct either a homebuyers report or a 
building survey at her own expense. If Ms H feels she either asked for one of those, or didnt 
understand the difference, then thats a matter between her and her mortgage broker. 
Skipton simply instructed the type of valuation that was requested on the application form, 
which was a basic mortgage valuation.Having considered everything Im satisfied Skipton did nothing wrong here as it instructed 
the valuation report that was requested by Ms H and appointed a suitably-qualified valuer to 
conduct it. In those circumstances, it isnt responsible for the contents of that report.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman