DRN-2278126
The complaint
Mr E complains that Black Horse Limited allowed a third party to take out a hire purchase 
agreement in his name without his consent or authority.
What happened
Mr E says a hire purchase agreement was taken out in October 2018 without his consent or 
authority. Mr E says this was taken out to finance a car hes owned since 2016. 
A few months before the hire purchase agreement was taken out, Mr E says he approached 
an independent broker who Ill refer to as J, for a personal loan. Mr E says he was 
recommended to J by a friend and he spoke with J on multiple occasions. Mr E says he gave 
J some of his personal information so J could find him the best deal for a personal loan.
After some time, J got back in touch with Mr E to let him know he found him a loan. Mr E 
says he accepted this loan as he found the monthly repayments to be affordable. In July 
2019, Mr E says a collection agent turned up to his house to repossess his car. It was at this 
point Mr E says he became aware that there was an agreement secured against his car. 
Black Horse say they spoke to the dealership where the hire purchase agreement was taken 
out. They said they were approached by Mr E and a broker who said Mr E wanted to sell his 
car as he wanted to raise some money. The following day, Mr E changed his mind and that 
he wanted his car back. They say Mr E wanted to keep the funds, so he agreed to take out a 
hire purchase agreement for his car. The dealership arranged the finance with Black Horse. 
The hire purchase agreement shows a £5,000 deposit was paid and the total amount of 
credit was for £15,000. Black Horse say several security checks were completed, by Mr E, 
with them on 15 October 2018. The hire purchase agreement was then taken out on 16 
October 2018. From the information provided, Mr E was then transferred £12,500 on 17 
October 2018 by another business who Ill refer to as M. 
Black Horse said they didnt think the hire purchase agreement was taken out fraudulently. 
And theyve agreed to settle the finance interest free. As a result, Black Horse say theyre 
happy to accept a payment of £10,575.87 from Mr E to settle the agreement. 
Unhappy with Black Horses response, Mr E brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Es concerns. In summary, she didnt think there was enough 
evidence to suggest the agreement was set up fraudulently. And that she didnt think it was 
in dispute that Mr E owed someone money for what he thought was a personal loan. So, she 
thought Black Horses offer to accept £10,575.87 from Mr E was fair.
Mr E disagreed. In summary, he reiterated that he thought the money he was transferred 
was a personal loan. Mr E says he didnt agree to sell his car and that if he did, the V5 
document wouldve been provided at the time which it wasnt. Mr E has also provided 
evidence to show hes always been the owner of his car since 2016 and hasnt sold it to 
anyone. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a number of representations in his complaint. I want to assure Mr E I have 
considered everything he has told us very carefully. I may not address every single point 
directly, but I have looked at everything he has raised in coming to my decision. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual representation made to be able to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I cant be completely sure about what exactly has happened  there are inconsistencies in 
what Mr E has told us, such as how he met J. And theres also a lack of evidence in some 
parts. However, the underlying question here is whether Mr E consented or gave authority 
for the hire purchase agreement to be taken out in his name. And I think he did consent to 
the agreement. Ill explain why.
Mr E hasnt been able to provide us with any evidence of the communications he had with J 
 he says he no longer has the messages and they often spoke using different internet 
platforms. So, I havent been able to see exactly what was agreed between Mr E and J at 
the time.
The dealership have given us some details about the sale and what was agreed in terms of 
the hire purchase agreement. However, due to a fire incident, they havent been able to 
provide us with all the necessary documentary evidence. From their recollection, they say Mr 
E wanted to raise some money so he sold his car to them. The dealership have said they 
paid £15,000 to the broker, J  as Mr E had chosen the broker to act on his behalf. However, 
Mr E returned the following day and this was when the hire purchase agreement was 
arranged. Black Horse say they verified certain details for data protection with Mr E during 
the sale of the hire purchase agreement. Ive looked at the information that was verified and I 
can see that this was information such as Mr Es mothers date of birth and Mr Es driving 
licence number. Mr E says he provided J with some of his personal and financial information 
in order for J to find him the most affordable loan. Whilst I find it reasonable that Mr E may 
have provided J with some of his personal and financial information, Im not persuaded Mr E 
wouldve given J information such as his mothers date of birth. I say this because I cant see 
why this information would be necessary for a personal loan.
The following day, further details were supplied in order for the agreement to be executed. I 
can see from the information provided by Black Horse that a text message was sent to 
Mr Es mobile number with a verification code. One minute later, the code was entered onto 
the system for the finance and the agreement was then executed. Mr E acknowledges he 
received this code but that he passed it on to J. However, Im not entirely persuaded by what 
Mr E has told us. I say this because the code was entered within a minute of the message 
being sent to Mr E. 
Ive looked at the default notices from January 2019 to July 2019 which were sent to Mr E 
from Black Horse. And each of these refer to a hire purchase agreement. Ive also listened to 
a conversation between Black Horse and Mr E in June 2019. During this call, the advisor 
mentions repossession of the car if the payments arent made. And Mr E discusses the 
possibility of making a payment with the advisor. If Mr E didnt consent to the agreement, I 
think its likely he wouldve raised this to Black Horse when he received the default letters 
and I also think its more likely than not he wouldve raised a question when the advisor 
mentioned repossession during the call.
Its not clear exactly how M became involved in this transaction. And Mr E has told he didnt 
notice the £12,500 that was paid to him had come from M. I understand Mr E has raised some questions about the hire purchase agreement itself  in particular, who paid the £5,000 
deposit and where the £2,500 difference went to (as the total credit amount provided on the 
agreement was £15,000). The dealership have made the assumption that the £2,500 went to 
J as a broker fee. I cant say for certain what happened here as there is a lack of information 
around these points. And I dont find the dealerships assumption to be unreasonable  
especially if J was acting as a broker for Mr E. In any case, I dont think the lack of 
information persuades me that the agreement was taken out fraudulently.
Having carefully considered everything, on balance, I think its likely Mr E changed his mind 
about selling his car. And I think its likely he consented to taking out the hire purchase 
agreement.
 
I note Mr E says the V5 document wasnt ever handed over at any point. Therefore, this is 
proof he didnt sell his car. However, the V5 document isnt proof of ownership of the car and 
it says this on the document. Its proof of the registered keeper of the car. And in some 
cases, some dealerships may be willing to purchase a car without the V5 document present. 
So, I dont think the change of the V5 document in and of itself definitely proves whats 
happened here.
In addition to this, I note Mr Es point that the DVLA website shows one owner of the car 
since 2016  and Mr E says thats always been him. Mr E says if he did sell his car, as Black 
Horse have said, then surely it wouldve shown another owner. However, I dont necessarily 
agree with this. I say this because as Ive already explained, Im persuaded that Mr E 
changed his mind about selling his car. And its possible there wasnt enough time to change 
this information with the DVLA about any new owners  especially if the dealership hadnt 
yet sold Mr Es car. Therefore, I dont think the V5 document being in Mr Es name and the 
DVLA website showing one owner, means the agreement was taken out fraudulently. 
Black Horse have said theyre willing to allow Mr E to settle the finance interest free so that 
he is only returning the funds that were provided to him in the first instance. Therefore, they 
say they will accept £10,575.85 in settlement of Mr Es agreement. Having thought about 
this, I think this offer seems fair in the circumstances. Black Horse have told us that Mr E can 
make this payment in full. Or alternatively, Mr E can make the monthly payments of £374.71 
until the £10,575.85 is paid in full. Black Horse have also said Mr Es car is currently at risk 
due to non-payment of the account since June 2019. Mr E will need to contact Black Horse 
directly to discuss the payment options.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman