DRN-3356632
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) hasnt reimbursed him after he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Around August 2020 Mr C was researching investment opportunities. After providing his 
contact details online he was contacted by someone who said they worked for company C. 
It told Mr C it would carry out trades with his money and provide him with a mentoring 
service.
Between 14 and 19 August 2020 Mr C made three debit card payments totalling around 
£4,700 through a third party money transfer service. The highest of these payments was 
£2,377.61. When Mr C contacted C to try and make a withdrawal of his money he was told 
he couldnt do this unless he paid a fee. He tried to cancel the service but this didnt result in 
a return of the funds and at this point he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr C contacted Lloyds which looked into things but said it wouldnt raise a chargeback for 
the payments through the relevant scheme. This was because the third party money transfer 
service hed paid is a legitimate business and had provided the service hed paid for.
Mr C made a complaint as he was unhappy with Lloyds response. It acknowledged it hadnt 
provided him with sufficient service when hed tried to report the scam but maintained it 
wasnt responsible for his loss.
Mr C brought the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
They didnt feel Lloyds had acted unfairly in not reimbursing him for his loss. As Mr C didnt 
accept this the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Lloyds have done more to stop the payments being made?
Theres no dispute the payments Mr C made were authorised even though he was the 
victim of a scam. The payments were made by Mr C and under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, he is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
But, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably have measures in place to look for and identify 
transactions that are significantly unusual, out of character or otherwise might indicate 
someone had been the victim of a scam. And, where it reasonably ought to have identified 
such a transaction, it might be appropriate for it to carry out further checks to satisfy itself its 
customer isnt at risk.
So although Mr C did authorise the payments he transferred to the scammer, Ive thought 
about whether I think Lloyds ought reasonably to have recognised them as unusual or a 
potential risk.
I can see the payments Mr C made to scammers were for greater amounts than he generally 
made on his account in the months leading up to the scam. But I wouldnt expect Lloyds to 
stop every payment thats slightly larger than usual. It has to strike a balance in monitoring 
accounts and preventing fraud with not unduly hindering a customers general use of their 
account. And its reasonable to expect that, occasionally, individuals will want to make 
purchases that are larger than their usual day to day spending. For example, paying for 
something like a holiday, home improvements or a car. 
Overall, having considered Mr Cs account statements I dont think this payment reasonably 
ought to have prompted any intervention from Lloyds or any of the targeted warnings I 
wouldve expected it to have provided had it considered the payment to be unusual. So I 
dont think the bank missed an opportunity to prevent the payment being made. As such, 
although Im sorry Mr C has suffered a loss, I dont think Lloyds is liable for reimbursing him 
for this.
Should Lloyds have done more after the scam was reported to it?
Mr C feels the bank ought to have raised a chargeback with the money transfer service he 
used in order to get back his money. Hes said that in stating it provided a legitimate service 
Lloyds, and our service, is saying the scam was legitimate. But this isnt the case.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme  in this case run by Visa - whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not 
to second-guess an arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the 
regulated card issuer (Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when choosing not to present a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr C).
We would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted by the card issuer 
where the rights exist and there is some prospect of success. But it doesnt have to do this. 
And in this case I think Lloyds has acted reasonably in not raising a chargeback request. I 
say this because a chargeback dispute can only be raised against the merchant the card 
payment was actually made to. In this case, that isnt the scammer, but the money transfer 
service Mr C used to pay the scammer. 
The issue with this is that there isnt any dispute I can see directly with this money transfer 
service. Mr C paid it to transfer money and exchange currency for him and it appears to 
have completed this service for him in line with his instructions. The issue has occurred after 
the use of this service, when the scammer hasnt used Mr Cs money to trade for him as he 
thought they would. Because Mr Cs dispute isnt with the money transfer service he used, 
the chargeback had no prospect of success. So in the circumstances Im satisfied Lloyds 
acted reasonably in not raising a dispute.
Mr C has said he didnt know he was using the money transfer service. Its not clear how he 
wasnt aware of this, but even so, it wouldnt change my findings regarding this point or the 
rules of the scheme and how it could be used. Whether or not he realised the third party 
transfer service was separate to the trader he believed he was dealing with, it was. After Mr C reported the scam to Lloyds it does appear there were delays in it responding to 
his claim. It also seems it provided conflicting information about whether or not it would be 
raising a chargeback claim and it failed to keep him updated for several months. I can see 
this wouldve been really difficult for Mr C at an already stressful time. I agree it should pay 
him compensation for this service and I think the total payment of £287 its offered (£275 in 
compensation plus £12 to cover the cost of calls) is sufficient.
My final decision
If it hasnt already, Lloyds Bank plc should pay the £287 offered to Mr C. I make no further 
award in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman