DRN-3755962
The complaint
Mr R complains Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post 
Office) are not accepting payments into his savings account.
 
What happened
Mr R has been funding his Post Office account from an account at another financial business 
for several years. Hes been doing this via a standing order. 
With effect from April 2022, Post Office changed their terms and conditions which means 
payments in and out of the Post Office account can only be made to and from a nominated 
linked account. Following this change, Mr Rs standing order payments were not credited to 
his Post Office account.
 
Mr R complained as he believed Post Office had made an error by returning his payments. 
Post Office said they have returned Mr Rs payments since then because the payments are 
being received with a different sort code from the one recorded as Mr Rs linked account.
Our Investigator considered Mr Rs concerns. He said, in summary, that Post Office have the 
linked account details recorded correctly but have provided evidence that the returned 
payments were from a different sort code. So he didnt think theyd made a mistake by 
returning Mr Rs payments. 
Mr R said he didnt agree and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has provided evidence that the payments were being sent from the correct linked 
account. However, Post Office have provided evidence that the payments are being received 
from the same account number but with a different sort code. All the Post Offices other 
records show the correct account number and sort code. So Im satisfied Post Office have 
recorded Mr Rs linked account details correctly. 
Standing orders are payments set up at the sending financial business to leave an account 
for a set amount on a regular basis. Post Office dont have any control about how the 
payment is being sent  or what information is included when that payment is sent. So I dont 
think the payments being received with a different sort code is likely caused by Post Office. 
Post Office suggested Mr R contact the sending financial business about the differing sort 
codes. Its not clear whether Mr R has done that. Having reviewed the evidence provided, I 
think its more likely than not Post Office havent made a mistake in relation to the sort code. 
Under the terms and conditions of the savings account, Post Office will only accept deposits 
made from a linked account. Mr R is unhappy that Post Office did not accept standing order 
payments made from his linked account after the change to the terms took effect. I accept 
the payments were in fact made from the correct linked account, but the payments are being 
received at Post Office with a different sort code. So I can see why Post Office is treating 
them as not having been made from the linked account. 
Overall, I dont think Post Office has treated Mr R unfairly by returning his payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman