DRN-2664434
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE have handled his Legal Expenses 
Insurance (LEI) claim.  
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a broad overview of some of the key events here. In the summer of 2018 Mr W 
entered into a contract to rent a holiday villa. He says he had to cut his holiday short as there 
had been a breach of contract and a misrepresentation (due to noise and disruptions at the 
villa). After failing to reach what he deemed to be a suitable resolution with the owner of the 
villa Mr W wanted to take legal action to recover his losses. 
Mr W has the benefit of LEI which is provided as part of a group policy and relates to a 
professional organisation of which he is a member. Throughout the handling of the claim 
there have been numerous complaints made. 
The most recent (prior to this one) was dealt with by our service in October 2019. Part of our 
investigators recommendation for that complaint said: I therefore agree that Great Lakes 
can limit the cost paid up to the value of the claim to ensure that the costs are proportionate 
to the claim This outcome was accepted by both Great Lakes and Mr W. 
But following on from this Great Lakes asked Mr W to sign a Limit of Proportionality 
Undertaking which in essence meant him agreeing to fund the claim (beyond its value) until 
conclusion. Mr W was unhappy with this and made a further complaint. Ultimately Great 
Lakes changed their position but they still wanted Mr W to put in writing that he understood 
that if he withdrew his claim after exhausting the indemnity that would be provided by the 
policy, they would be entitled to recover that amount from him. 
There was also an issue in relation to a payment for around £340 that Great Lakes had 
previously agreed to pay for Mr Ws solicitors work in assessing the prospects of his claim. 
Great Lakes apologised that they hadnt previously addressed this and said that as soon as 
they had evidence from the solicitor, the payment would be made. 
The matter was referred back to our service and one of our investigators didnt think Great 
Lakes needed to do more. Mr W disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made considerable submissions when bringing his complaint and Ive read and 
considered everything hes sent in. I dont, however, intend to respond in similar detail. So if I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Much of Mr Ws argument deals with whether it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to limit 
the amount of costs they will pay to the value of his claim. This was addressed by our 
investigator in 2019 (particularly the sentence quoted above). And in November 2019 Mr W 
accepted that as resolution to his complaint. So, I wont be revisiting that point in detail here. 
Mr W had an opportunity at the time to ask that an ombudsman make a decision if he felt 
limiting the indemnity to the value of the claim on the grounds of proportionality was unfair. 
But in the interests of completeness, in general terms, I agree that its reasonable for an 
insurer to limit what they will pay to an amount that is proportionate to the claim. A privately 
paying client wouldnt generally spend more on legal work than they stood to gain if 
successful, so I dont think an insurer should have to either. 
Mr Ws policy says there is no cover for: 7. any professional fees incurred in the pursuit or 
defence of legal proceedings where the beneficiary withdraws from a claim without our prior 
consent 8. the pursuit, continued pursuit or defence of any claim where we consider it is 
unlikely that a sensible settlement will be obtained or where the likely settlement amount is 
disproportionate compared with the time and expense incurred.
With these policy terms in mind I dont think it is unreasonable for Great Lakes to protect 
their position by ensuring that Mr W is fully aware that if he were to withdraw his claim, they 
would seek to recover their outlay from him. The value of Mr Ws claim was recorded by his 
solicitor as being in the region of £2,500. So I can quite understand why Great Lakes have 
concerns as to the proportionality of proceeding. Mr Ws solicitor advised that it would 
require between 20-25 hours of work plus the court fees. I think its reasonable for Great 
Lakes to conclude that the outlay required is highly likely to meet or exceed the value of the 
claim. 
But Great Lakes agreed to provide funding up to the value of the claim as long as Mr W 
agreed to accept that if he discontinued the case, they would seek to recover this from him. I 
dont think this is unfair. If Mr W is intent on seeing through his legal case, this allows at least 
part of it to be funded by Great Lakes (up to its value). Great Lakes have also said that if
Mr W isnt happy with this they can instruct a panel solicitor to pursue the legal action for Mr 
W subject to the other requirements of the policy being met. Again, this gives Mr W a 
further option should he wish to continue his dispute, and I think this is likewise fair. 
Mr W has highlighted part of the policy which allows Great Lakes to decide to pay an insured 
person the value of their claim instead of costs and expenses of legal action. He would like 
Great Lakes to make such a payment to him as he feels their handling of his claim has 
prejudiced his position. 
The term in question makes clear that such payments are at Great Lakes discretion. And I 
dont think them deciding not to make a payment is unreasonable. They have offered Mr W 
two potential routes to progress his legal action, funding the claim as far as its value (subject 
to his agreement as mentioned above about recovery) or having a panel solicitor consider 
the claim further. The provision in the policy for Great Lakes to make a payment instead of 
funding legal action doesnt oblige them to do so. 
With regard to the outstanding payment for £340, Great Lakes previously requested an 
invoice and a timesheet to show that those costs were in relation to assessing the prospects of Mr Ws claim. I think this is fair as its reasonable for Great Lakes to ensure the costs 
being claimed were incurred in line with the policy terms. I agree with our investigator that 
Great Lakes could have requested this information sooner, but I dont think this has made a 
difference as Mr W was, at the time of complaining, yet to provide that information. If Mr W 
provides the evidence requested, Id expect Great Lakes to consider it and make any 
appropriate payment promptly. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman