DRN-3315091
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc rejected his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1975.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr H purchased a car and paid a deposit of £250 using his credit card 
supplied by Barclays. The balance of the purchase price of £17,500 was paid by bank 
transfer.
Mr H experienced issues with the car soon after purchase. These included issues with the 
air conditioning, the timing belt and steering wheel vibration. These issues were resolved. 
However, in February 2021 Mr H noticed that the alloy wheels were bubbling, and that the 
tyres were of mixed specification. Mr H raised this with the dealership and asked it to replace 
the alloy wheels and two tyres, but the dealership refused.
Mr H raised a section 75 claim with Barclays. He said the dealer had offered to pay 20% of 
the cost of repair but he didnt think this was fair.
Barclays rejected the claim. It said there was no evidence of a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think there had been a 
misrepresentation about the tyres because the dealership had told Mr H that the tyres were 
all of the same brand, which was true.
The investigator said that then tyres on Mr Hs car were recommended for the car, and that 
there was no reason why both specifications of tyre couldnt be used. The investigator said 
that she didnt think there had been a breach of contract because there was no mention of 
the tyres being unsatisfactory at the point of MOT. In relation to the alloy wheels, the 
investigator said that there was no evidence that this was due to anything other than wear 
and tear, and that if the issue had been present at the point of supply, it was likely that Mr H 
would have noticed it.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed raised the issue of the bubbling of the wheels in September 
2020 and said that alloys shouldnt bubble because the outer layer is intact. He also said that 
the other issues hed experienced with the car  the timing belt and the steering rack  was 
evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr H said hed raised a query about the 
tyres with the manufacturer and the main dealer and was told that the tyres should be a 
different size to those fitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, and that Barclays response to the claim wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred 
and Id expect the provider of credit to put things right.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a 
contract. 
Ive looked at the available evidence. When Mr H raised his claim under section 75, he said 
he was unhappy about the non-matching tyres and the bubbling on the alloy wheels. Hes 
also said (in response to the investigators view) that the other issues he experienced with 
the car meant that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
In relation to the issues which Mr H experienced within the first few weeks of getting the car, 
its my understanding that these issues were resolved by repairs. I understand that Mr H is 
frustrated about the inconvenience he was caused as a result of these issues, but hes 
accepted the repairs and theres no evidence to suggest that these repairs werent 
successful. So, Im unable to consider these issues now. Ive therefore focussed on the tyres 
and the alloy wheels.
In February 2021 Mr H discovered that the cars front and rear tyres were of a different 
specification. Hes unhappy about this because he says he was told by the dealer that the 
tyres all matched. Ive reviewed an email from the dealer dated 17 February 2020 in which it 
is stated that the rear tyres are 5mm and the front tyres are 6mm and all are Pirelli branding.
Ive thought about whether this amounts to a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
Theres no evidence to suggest that the tyres arent suitable for the car, or that different 
specifications of tyre can be fitted to the front and rear. Theres no evidence that any 
damage has been caused to the car by the different specification of tyres, and theres no 
advisories in the most recent MOT to suggest that the tyres were dangerous or 
unroadworthy. On balance, Im unbale to say that the tyres are of unsatisfactory quality or 
not fit for purpose. With regards to misrepresentation, I cant say that the dealer made an 
untrue statement of fact. The information given to Mr H about the tyres  that they were all of 
the same branding  was true.
Taking everything into account, there isnt any evidence to show that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation in relation to the tyres.
Ive also thought about whether the bubbling on the alloy wheels amounts to a breach of 
contract. Mr H has said that he first discovered the bubbling in September 2020. Ive 
reviewed an email from the manufacturer dated around this time, which is some 7 months 
after the point of supply. Ive no reason to think that the wheels werent bubbling as Mr H has 
described. However, because of the length of time which elapsed since the point of supply, 
its up to Mr H to show that the bubbling was present at the point of supply. If it had been, I 
think its likely that Mr H wouldve noticed this and wouldve raised it with the dealer at the 
time of sale. It seems more likely that the bubbling occurred after the point of supply.
Ive thought about whether the alloy wheels were durable, because durability is an aspect of 
satisfactory quality. However, given the age of the car, I think a reasonable person would 
expect that parts of the car would suffer wear and tear.  It seems likely that the bubbling has arisen as a result of wear and tear. Im unable to say that the wheels werent of satisfactory 
quality, or that theres been a breach of contract. 
Taking everything into account, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that theres been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation. I think Barclays handled the section 75 claim 
fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman