DRN-3368963
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
(Hargreaves Lansdown) to transfer the benefits from two defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension schemes to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes it has caused a financial loss. He 
says he would have been better off if he had remained in the DB schemes. 
What happened
Mr J had deferred benefits in two DB schemes. I understand that before he met with 
Hargreaves Lansdown Mr J had transferred the value of one of them into a personal 
pension. Hargreaves Lansdown was not involved in this transfer. 
In 2012 Mr J transferred the personal pension that held the value of the first DB scheme to 
Hargreaves Lansdown and invested it in a Hargreaves Lansdown SIPP. 
And in 2013 Mr J transferred proceeds from another DB scheme into the same SIPP. 
Mr J complained in 2021 to Hargreaves Lansdown about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
He says that he shouldnt have been advised to transfer his DB scheme benefits and it was 
clear that he hadnt benefitted in any way from the transfers.  
Hargreaves Lansdown didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said that it didnt advise Mr J to 
transfer any of his pensions into the Hargreaves Lansdown SIPP. It said that it acted on an 
execution only basis for Mr J and, that it was only acting on his instructions. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that he didnt have sufficient evidence to show that Mr J was advised to transfer his 
pensions by Hargreaves Lansdown. So, he couldnt go on to consider if the transfers were 
suitable. 
Mr J disagreed, saying his pension benefits were transferred to Hargreaves Lansdown 
following a telephone call. But he said the promised benefits have never materialised. He 
said the people responsible for scuppering his retirement should pay compensation. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
As Ive said above, Hargreaves Lansdown wasnt involved when Mr J transferred his first DB 
scheme benefits to a personal pension. So, I cant look at this aspect of Mr Js DB transfer 
complaint here, as Hargreaves Lansdown isnt responsible for this DB transfer in any way. 
In respect of the transfer of his personal pension, and the second DB scheme transfer, to 
Hargreaves Lansdown, Mr J is complaining about the suitability of the advice he says he 
was given to transfer these pensions to a Hargreaves Lansdown SIPP. So, it follows that, in 
order for Hargreaves Lansdown to be responsible for the suitability of this advice, it needs to 
be established that Hargreaves Lansdown gave Mr J advice in 2012 and 2013. If it didnt 
give Mr J advice then it wouldnt be responsible for the advice to transfer. And I wouldnt be 
able to say that Hargreaves Lansdown gave unsuitable advice.
Its clear that Mr J had some contact with Hargreaves Lansdown as his personal pension, 
and DB scheme transfer values, were transferred to one of its pension products. But this 
doesnt mean that Hargreaves Lansdown advised Mr J to do this. 
In the transfer paperwork, Mr J signed to confirm at the time of transfer that Hargreaves 
Lansdown has not given me advice, I am responsible for my decision to transfer, and I will 
seek independent financial advice if I am unsure if transferring is right for me. 
As far as I am aware this was the only paperwork Mr J received, or completed, from 
Hargreaves Lansdown when he was arranging this transfer. By that I mean I dont think that 
he was provided with any written advice letters or similar. So, he wasnt given written advice. 
Mr J said that he spoke to Hargreaves Lansdown about the transfer. But, there arent any 
records about this call that show advice was given to him. Or anything to conclusively show 
what Mr J and Hargreaves Lansdown may have discussed. So, I cant conclusively say that 
Mr J was given advice in the call. 
Given this, I think its reasonable to say, that there isnt enough evidence to show that Mr J 
was given advice by Hargreaves Lansdown to transfer his DB scheme benefits. And so, I 
cant go on to think about whether the advice was suitable for Mr J. 
Because of this Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman