DRN-2087404
The complaint
Mr T, a sole trader, complains that Bank of Scotland plc changed the terms of his business 
bank accounts. Mr T asks that Bank of Scotland re-instates the terms previously agreed and 
pays compensation of about £4,000 for his costs and his time.
What happened
Mr T says Bank of Scotland agreed special terms for his business accounts, including 
interest rates and fee free banking, when he opened his business accounts in 2004. He says 
it told him these terms couldnt change.
Mr T says between 2010 and 2018 he received letters from Bank of Scotland suggesting 
changes to the account terms, interest and charges. When he contacted Bank of Scotland it 
confirmed the agreed special terms wouldnt change, and refunded or waived charges. But 
in 2019 Bank of Scotland said it was removing his fee free banking and the interest on his 
accounts. 
Mr T asks that we consider whether Bank of Scotland is able to change the terms previously 
agreed. And whether it should pay for his professional time in dealing with this matter. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Bank of 
Scotland was able to make changes to the terms of Mr Ts accounts, if it gave notice before 
doing so. Our investigator said that Mr T hadnt received the expected level of service, and 
the previous relationship manager had given the impression the fees and interest 
arrangement would last indefinitely. He said the compensation of £850 paid by Bank of 
Scotland, and the interest it paid on Mr Ts accounts to mid-August 2019, was reasonable.
Mr T didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T provided detailed information about the history of his accounts and banking relationship 
with Bank of Scotland. Consistent with our informal approach, I havent included all of that 
here.
I should also say that our approach is different to that of a court. Mr T asks whether Bank of 
Scotland is able to make changes to the terms of his account. He refers to assurances its 
given him that it wont  and even that it cant  do so. Whether Bank of Scotland is able to 
make changes as a matter of law is something only a court can decide. What I can consider 
is whether Bank of Scotland has been fair in its dealings with Mr T, taking into account 
relevant law, regulation and good industry practice.
Overall, I think it has. Bank of Scotland agreed special terms with Mr T in 2003. I dont think 
its reasonable to say that Bank of Scotland has to provide business bank accounts to Mr T 
on these terms indefinitely. And the account terms  which Mr T agreed to when he took out 
the accounts  say Bank of Scotland can make changes, by giving notice.
Bank of Scotland gave notice to Mr T about the changes to his accounts. It agreed to 
continue to pay interest on his accounts for a period, to allow Mr T time to contact other 
providers and see if they could offer better terms. I think thats fair.
I can require banks to pay compensation to customers for financial loss which results from 
the banks error, if I consider it fair and reasonable to do so. Mr T hasnt provided evidence of 
financial loss, but says hes spent considerable time dealing with Bank of Scotland. For 
instance, he spent time contacting Bank of Scotland when charges or interest were applied 
to his accounts in a way that was inconsistent with the special terms agreed, and in bringing 
this and previous complaints. I can understand Mr Ts frustration. And I also understand his 
frustration that he was told his special banking terms would continue and was then told 
theyd change.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Bank of Scotland to pay Mr T for his time at his 
hourly rate. Hed only have lost out financially if his dealings with Bank of Scotland prevented 
him doing work for his clients. But I do think Bank of Scotland should pay compensation for 
the inconvenience Mr T was caused by its poor service. Bank of Scotland paid 
compensation of about £850, and in the circumstances I think this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the steps taken and 
compensation paid by Bank of Scotland plc was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman