DRN-2944060
The complaint
Mr G complains Allianz Insurance Plc turned down a claim he made for subsidence under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had an outbuilding built in his garden which was completed in January 2018. Later that 
year, Mr G noticed some cracks in the ceiling and walls. They got steadily worse, so he 
made a claim to Allianz.
Allianz sent a loss adjuster to Mr Gs home to look at the damage and provide a report on its 
cause. The report identified the damage had been caused as a result of clay shrinkage due 
to the effects of trees. Allianz said the policy didnt cover damage arising from defective 
design - it didnt think the foundations had been designed to the correct depth, so it declined 
Mr Gs claim. Mr G didnt think that was fair and complained.
Allianz maintained its decision to decline the claim was correct, so Mr G referred his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said she didnt think it was fair for Allianz to 
decline the claim. She said Allianz hadnt provided any evidence to suggest the depth it 
thought the foundations should be in line with the Building Regulations.
Allianz disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In doing so, it provided additional evidence to show why it thought the foundations should 
have been deeper. The investigator reviewed this evidence but wasnt minded to change her 
opinion.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 9 July 2021. I said I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
The policy covers subsidence and Allianz has accepted the outbuilding has been impacted 
by subsidence, as a result of nearby trees.
However, Allianz has declined the claim relying on a term specifically relating to subsidence 
which says no cover will be provided if the subsidence is a result of defective design or 
workmanship or the use of defective materials. Allianz say the foundations of the outbuilding 
were defective in design as they werent deep enough to take into account the impact of 
established trees which were nearby.
Allianz has referred to the Building Regulations which say in areas of high shrinkage clay soil 
(which the outbuilding is built upon), the depth of the underside of the foundation should not 
be less than 1.0m. It then goes on to say this depth may need to be increased if there are 
trees nearby. I understand the foundations of the outbuilding were built to a depth of 1.0m.
Allianz also referred to standards applied by a certain builder of new homes, N, it says these 
standards required a foundation depth of at least 1.6m to take into account the nearby 
vegetation. And, should be used as guidance when considering an adequate depth of 
foundations.
Theres no evidence the builder was working on behalf of N and therefore I dont think it 
would be reasonable to apply those standards to the outbuilding.
The policy doesnt stipulate Building Regulations should be used to judge the adequacy of 
the foundations, but I think they are relevant here. In my mind there was a duty on the 
builder to design and build a structure that would likely stand for a reasonable period of time, 
bearing in mind the specific conditions of the site and the relevant guidance and good 
practice which existed at the time.
Mr G has said the foundations werent defective as they received sign off from the local 
authority when the structure was completed. I can understand why the completion certificate 
may have given Mr G reassurance the foundations were of a suitable depth and 
construction. But given the guidance doesnt appear to have been fully considered i.e. not 
going beyond the minimum, Im not persuaded the builders consideration went so far as to 
take into account the impact of the mature trees that were already in existence and relatively 
close to the structure that was to be built..
Given the damage started to become apparent within a year of the structure being built, I 
dont think it would be fair to conclude that it has withstood the test of time. I realise Mr G 
trusted the builder to use their expertise when designing and building the outbuilding, 
however the policy is clear that it doesnt cover damage caused by defective design or 
workmanship. I think it is more likely than not there were already tree roots located near to or 
below the structure when it was built
On the strength of the evidence available to me, Im satisfied Allianz acted fairly in declining 
the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and I dont intend to interfere in 
its decision here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Allianz responded saying it had no further comments to make.
Mr G responded and reiterated the outbuilding had received a completion certificate from the 
local authority. He said that from his point of view, the trees are quite some distance away, 
there were no roots visible when the foundations were dug, and he questions they could 
have grown that far within a year.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to depart from my provisional decision. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I am aware the outbuilding received a completion 
certificate from the local authority, and I can understand why this gave Mr G some reassurance. However, I cant ignore the fact the issues with the outbuilding happened so 
soon after it was completed and, it hasnt therefore stood the test of time.
I appreciate what Mr G has said about the trees and their distance from the outbuilding. It 
however remains that evidence of tree roots were found in the trial holes and as such there 
were tree roots found under the structure within a year of it being built. This suggest the 
impact of the trees wasnt fully taken into account when the outbuilding was designed and 
constructed. I think Allianz has fairly applied the exclusion relating to defective design or 
workmanship.
Overall, on the strength of the evidence available to me, Im satisfied Allianz acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and I 
wont be interfering in that decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman