DRN-3301110
The complaint
Mrs G complains that AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Investcentre (AJB) 
took too long to transfer her defined benefit pension with a former employers scheme to her 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She says this led to the expiry date on the 
guaranteed transfer value being missed, causing her a financial loss of £25,182.
Mrs G is represented in her complaint, but Ill only refer to her in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs G opened a SIPP with AJB on 12 February 2021. She intended to transfer a defined 
benefit pension into it. Shed received a transfer value illustration which was guaranteed until 
28 February 2021.
The total transfer value was £984,015. It had a guarantee date of 30 November 2020, which 
meant it was guaranteed until 28 February 2021. In order for the transfer value to be paid, 
the following requirements needed to be received by the ceding scheme by 28 February 
2021:
1. Application for transfer form signed by Mrs G;
2. Discharge form completed by new pension provider;
3. Confirmation of appropriate financial advice from Independent Financial Adviser.
It should be noted that 26 February 2021 was effectively the last date of the guarantee as 
this was the last working day within the guarantee period.
Mrs G's financial adviser submitted the required documentation for the transfer to AJB on 15 
February 2021. These were date stamped as received on Wednesday, 17 February 2021. 
I understand that during a call with Mrs Gs financial adviser on 23 February 2021, he 
specifically asked AJB to confirm that the paperwork had been sent on for the defined 
benefit transfer. He said that AJB told him that the paperwork had been received on 19 
February 2021 and would be processed within three to five working days. This wouldve 
meant that the transfer completed by 26 February 2021, the last effective date of the 
guarantee period. So the adviser felt he had no need for concern. 
AJB said that when Mrs Gs adviser had called on 23 February 2021 to discuss the transfer, 
its agent had told him its typical timescales to process transfer instructions. It said that its 
agent had been unaware that the transfer was for a defined benefit pension. And had 
therefore given him incorrect information. It said it typically needed ten working days to 
process a defined benefit transfer instruction.
Mrs Gs adviser called AJB again on 24 February 2021 as the guarantee deadline for the 
defined benefit pension transfer was effectively only two working days away. AJB told him 
that his request would be escalated. It said it would email its transfer team to confirm the 
deadline in an attempt to expedite the transfer. Mrs Gs adviser asked to be informed of any 
problems by 25 February 2021, but said he wasnt contacted.
AJB said that it wasnt able to complete the transfer process before the guarantee expired. It 
sent the completed transfer paperwork by Special Delivery on Tuesday, 2 March 2021, nine 
working days after it received the request. 
The ceding scheme received the transfer request on 3 March 2021. They declined to extend 
the transfer value guarantee. And, although Mrs Gs adviser offered to pay for a new 
statement of entitlement, said that a new one wouldn't be provided until six months after the 
previous statement had been issued in November 2020.
Unhappy, Mrs G complained to AJB. As they didnt provide a final response within eight 
weeks, she brought her complaint to this service. During the complaints process, the ceding 
scheme provided a revised transfer value that was £25,182 lower than the previous transfer 
value.
AJB issued its final response on 27 May 2021. They said that theyd completed the 
requested transfer within their expected turnaround times for a transfer including defined 
benefits. But as theyd provided incorrect information, they offered Mrs G £250 as a gesture 
of goodwill for any distress caused.
Mrs G didnt agree with AJB. Her adviser made the following points to this service:
the online application to open the SIPP included confirmation that the application was 
partially a defined benefit transfer
AJB had confirmed that itd received the transfer paperwork on 17 February 2021. 
But had told him that theyd received it on 19 February 2021.
AJB didnt tell Mrs G or her adviser that there would be a problem meeting the 
guarantee deadline. Hed followed this procedure several times with AJB and itd 
never been a problem. He said if hed been told that there would be any issues, he 
couldve looked at an alternative solution.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider that 
AJB had caused delays to the transfer. Our investigator felt that AJB had made a clear 
statement on the transfer form that it couldn't guarantee that any transfer would be 
completed if there were less than ten working days before the guarantee expired. And that 
Mrs G and her adviser should've been aware of this before submitting the transfer. He 
acknowledged that AJB had given Mrs Gs financial adviser incorrect information about the 
timescales for completing the transfer during a call. But felt that even if it hadnt made that 
mistake, it was unlikely that there wouldve been enough time for Mrs Gs adviser to have 
arranged a transfer to a different SIPP before the transfer value deadline. 
Mrs G disagreed. Her adviser made the following points:
-Although he acknowledged that the transfer form had explained that Mrs Gs transfer 
couldnt be guaranteed given how close it was to the guarantee deadline, he said her 
transfer application had been highlighted as urgent from the start. And that hed then 
followed up her application on several occasions. And had been told that it would be 
completed within the deadline. He felt hed done everything possible to ensure the 
deadline would be met. But he felt that AJB hadnt escalated the transfer as 
promised. And felt that it was responsible for the deadline being missed. 
-He also didnt agree that there wouldnt have been enough time for him to arrange a transfer to a different SIPP before the deadline. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I dont consider that AJB caused delays to the 
transfer. And Im not persuaded that the transfer deadline couldve been met if AJB hadnt 
given the incorrect information and Mrs G had instead decided to arrange a transfer to a 
different SIPP. I understand this will be disappointing to Mrs G. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
I first considered whether AJB shouldve been able to complete the transfer before the expiry 
of the guarantee. I did this by looking at the amount of time it had to process the transfer 
request. And the commitments it had made under its terms and conditions. I also considered 
anything AJB told Mrs G about her transfer. 
What was AJBs commitment?
The application form was submitted on 15 February 2021, nine working days before the 
deadline. And received on 17 February 2021, seven working days before the deadline. 
The terms and conditions dont commit AJB to arranging a transfer in any set period of time. 
But the transfer application form stated:
Important - please note that if you are transferring from a final salary pension scheme and 
the expiry date of any transfer value guarantee is less than 10 working days away, then 
whilst we will do our very best, we cannot be held responsible if the deadline is missed, You 
are advised to keep in regular contact with the transferring scheme to check on progress.
As the application form included the above statement, which I consider is clearly worded, Im 
satisfied that AJB made it clear to Mrs G that it couldnt guarantee that it would be able to 
process her transfer request before the transfer value guarantee expired. 
AJB said that it couldnt provide an exact timeframe of when any transfer was expected to 
complete, given how many factors involved in the process are outside its control. But it 
estimated that cash transfers can take up to four weeks to fully process once it had all the 
relevant information.
AJB also said that it was unable to meet the guarantee deadline because it wasnt left with 
enough time to complete its process. It said that although Mrs Gs adviser had asked it to 
expedite the transfer, and it had tried as a gesture of goodwill, the time constraints placed on 
it prevented completion before the deadline. It said that the transfer value had been 
guaranteed for three months. But that it had only received the transfer form seven working 
days before the guarantee deadline. It said the guarantee had been in place for 79 days 
before the request to transfer had been made. 
From what Ive seen, Mrs G didnt allow AJB enough time to reasonably ensure her transfer 
would be completed in time. AJB actually completed the transfer in nine working days. I don't 
consider this to be an unreasonably long period of time.
I dont consider that AJB caused a delay which led to the guarantee deadline being missed. I say this because theres nothing in the terms and conditions which commits AJB to 
completing transfers in a shorter time frame. And because the transfer instruction explained 
that the transfer couldnt be guaranteed to complete in less than ten working days. Overall, 
Im satisfied that AJB couldnt fairly and reasonably be held responsible for the guarantee 
deadline being missed.
Incorrect information given during 23 February 2021 call
In addition to the written information I referenced above, AJB incorrectly told Mrs Gs adviser 
during a call on 23 February 2021 that the transfer would complete by 26 February 2021. 
From what I understand, it corrected its mistake during a call on the following day. So I also 
need to consider whether the mistake led to the guarantee being missed.
Clearly Mrs G and her adviser were given a false expectation that the transfer would be 
completed before the guarantee deadline. So I went on to consider whether this mistake led 
to the guarantee deadline being missed. 
Mrs Gs financial adviser told this service that he has regularly experienced transfers that 
were completed in the three to five working day timeframe AJB told him it would take on 23 
February 2021. Hes also said that he doesnt feel its acceptable that AJB confirmed that the 
transfer was going to complete on time, but then failed to do so. He said he did everything 
he possibly could to ensure that the transfer was completed on time. And that AJB never told 
him that it wouldnt be. 
Ive carefully considered these points. And, although I can see that AJB provided incorrect 
information during the 23 February 2021 call with Mrs Gs adviser, Im not persuaded that 
the mistake led to the transfer not being completed in time. 
I say this because I dont consider that it was more likely than not that such a timeframe 
could have been achieved if Mrs G had decided to stop the transfer to AJB and instead 
transfer to a SIPP held with another provider. Therefore Im not persuaded that - even if AJB 
hadnt made the mistake it has acknowledged during the call on 23 February 2021  the 
transfer couldve been completed before the guarantee expired. This wouldve required a 
new SIPP provider to be found, for them to accept Mrs G as a new customer, and for them 
to be able to complete all of the required transfer paperwork. All of this wouldve had to take 
place within three working days. I also note that if Mrs G had felt this was a viable option, 
she couldve decided to attempt to arrange a transfer through a different provider at the point 
that she originally submitted her transfer application form on 15 February 2021, as that form 
warned her that there probably wasnt enough time for the transfer to complete with AJB. 
I acknowledge that Mrs Gs adviser has experienced transfers being completed very quickly. 
But I dont agree that this means he shouldve expected Mrs Gs transfer to complete in 
three working days. 
Mrs Gs adviser feels that because AJB said that the transfer would complete on time, it 
became committed to that timeframe. Ive considered this point. 
Where a business makes a mistake, this service looks at the impact of that mistake. In this 
case, Mrs G and her adviser were given a false expectation that the transfer would complete 
before the guarantee expired. But, from what Ive seen, this didnt in itself lead to any delays. 
Or prevent Mrs G from taking another course of action that would likely have seen her 
transfer complete before the guarantee expired. So Im satisfied that the mistake didnt have 
any financial impact on Mrs G.  
However, the mistake did lead to distress for Mrs G. AJB have acknowledged this. And offered £250 compensation. I consider that this is reasonable under the circumstances. 
I sympathise with Mrs Gs adviser as I understand that his past experience of transfers of 
this type gave him the view that AJB would complete the transfer before the guarantee 
expiry, despite its statement on the transfer application form. I can see that he expected 
them to do more to expedite the transfer given how close to the deadline it was. But Ive 
seen no evidence that AJB had made any commitment to complete a transfer of this type 
within a set period of time.
I dont uphold the complaint. Im not persuaded that AJB caused delays to the transfer of Mrs 
G's pension that resulted in the loss of her guaranteed transfer value and caused her a 
financial loss. However, Im satisfied that the incorrect information AJB gave to Mrs Gs 
adviser on 23 February 2021 did cause distress. AJB have acknowledged its mistake and 
offered £250 compensation. I consider that this is reasonable under the circumstances. And 
I dont require AJB to take any further steps to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman