DRN-2773561
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked and closed his accounts.
What happened
Mr J had several accounts with NatWest. 
In February 2020, NatWest reviewed Mr Js accounts. Whilst it completed its review it 
blocked Mr Js accounts  meaning he wasnt able to use them. Following its review 
NatWest decided to close Mr Js accounts and wrote to him giving him 14 days notice.
Mr J complained to the bank about his accounts being blocked and then closed. Mr J felt 
hed been unfairly treated by the bank. It hadnt told him why it had closed his accounts and 
because of the block hed missed making a loan payment in early March 2020 so was 
worried about his credit file.
NatWest said it had hadnt done anything wrong and had closed the accounts in line with the 
terms and conditions. And it had arranged for Mr J to make his loan payment later in the 
month it had been due. Unhappy with this response, Mr J brought his complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into things for him.
The investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Js 
accounts. And explained that the bank wasnt obliged to provide its reasons for no longer 
wanting Mr J as a customer. Mr J disagreed and said the bank hadnt treated him fairly. He 
wants the bank to provide a proper explanation why it closed his accounts.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that NatWest has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
NatWest may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. And conduct 
various security and credit checks as part of its customer due diligence measures. Our role 
is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for NatWest to block Mr Js accounts. The bank has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr J inconvenience, I 
cant say NatWest treated him unfairly when it blocked his accounts. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Js accounts. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless, theres a very good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about 
that in a legitimate manner, this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the 
banks decision to stop providing Mr J with banking facilities was reached legitimately.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. In this case, Mr Js 
accounts were blocked from the end of February 2020; he was unable to gain access to the 
funds in them or use the accounts. Whilst the accounts were formally closed in the middle of 
March 2020 (with 14 days notice) I believe they were effectively closed in February 2020  
since after that time Mr J couldnt use them. Having looked at the information the bank relied 
on to close Mr Js accounts, in my view that was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the 
accounts as it has already done. Of course, I can appreciate it wouldve been quite upsetting 
to Mr J discovering he couldnt access his bank accounts, but Im aware Mr J had access to 
other bank accounts, so I think the impact of the immediate closure would have been 
reduced. 
Mr J wants the bank to explain reasons why it decided it no longer wanted him as a 
customer. I can appreciate Mr J is upset and that he was caused inconvenience when the 
bank closed his accounts. But as the investigator has already explained, NatWest isnt 
obliged to provide Mr J with an explanation  as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say 
NatWest has done anything wrong by not providing Mr J with this information. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to require it do so.   
Mr J has said that due to the block on his accounts he missed making a repayment to his 
NatWest loan account which was due at the beginning of March 2020. However, I can see 
that his was quickly rectified by the bank and the payment was processed a few weeks later. 
I can also see that the investigator has clarified that no adverse information has been 
recorded by the bank against Mr J for any late payments. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr J when NatWest blocked and closed 
his accounts. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, I dont believe 
NatWest acted unreasonably or treated Mr J unfairly in taking the actions it did. It may be 
that the bank will need to discuss the repayment of any outstanding debts he owes, but I 
make no comment on that here  save to remind NatWest of its obligations if he is having 
difficulty paying. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman