DRN-1770367
 
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse Limited. He says the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and he should be 
refunded the payments he has made towards the car.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr D acquired a used car through a HPA with Black horse. Under the regulations, 
Black Horse can be held liable if the car was misrepresented or wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. 
Mr D raised concerns about the car having been in a previous accident. It is not 
unreasonable that a used car may have undergone repairs before acquisition. 
Black Horse has said that a check carried out before supply didnt show any 
evidence of previous accidents and Mr D said he was told by the dealer the car 
hadnt been involved in any accidents. However, the car was repainted which could 
suggest previous damage. While I can understand that this was upsetting for Mr D, 
as I do not have anything further to confirm what was said at the time of supply I do 
not find, on balance, that I have enough to say the car was misrepresented to Mr D.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Black Horse could be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect 
taking into account all the circumstances. Mr Ds car was two and a half years old at 
the point of acquisition and had been driven 15,000 miles. He raised his complaint 
about the paintwork and uneven wear of the tyres in August 2019, around five 
months after acquisition. When a complaint is raised within the first six months the 
onus tends to be on the business to show that the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. 
Black Horse had an independent inspection carried out in September 2019 which I 
find a reasonable response to Mr Ds complaint. The report concluded the attention 
to detail on the paintwork repair which has been completed is somewhat lacking but 
the general overall condition of the paintwork was considered to be acceptable. It 
then noted the paint finish on certain areas couldnt be considered to be a good 
engineering standard. This raises concerns about the quality of the paintwork.
Further discussion took place with the inspecting company and it said that a lay 
person wouldnt identify all the issues it was able to. This suggests that the issues 
wouldnt have necessarily been apparent to Mr D when he acquired the car and so it 
isnt reasonable to disregard them on the basis they had been accepted at that time. 
The inspecting company also said that it didnt consider the repaired areas to be of a 
commercially acceptable standard. The report further supports the work being 
undertaken before supply to Mr D. Given this I find the car wasnt of a satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. 
When a car is found to not have been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, 
repair can be a reasonable remedy. Our investigator recommended that the areas 
that had been identified as not being repaired to a commercially accepted standard 
were repainted at no cost to Mr D. Black Horse agreed with this and I find this a 
reasonable remedy for this issue.
Mr D also raised concern about the tyres and steering. The independent inspection 
report noted the mileage that Mr D had travelled since acquisition and wasnt able to 
conclude these issues were present from the point of supply. Without further 
evidence, I do not find I have enough to say that the issues with the steering and 
tyres were due to faults that were present at the point of supply and so I do not 
require Black Horse to do anything regarding these issues. 
I understand that Mr D wants to reject the car. However, in the circumstances, I find 
that Black Horse should have the opportunity to remedy the issue with the paintwork, 
as it has agreed. 
For the reasons above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Black Horse Limited should ensure the areas of paintwork 
identified as being substandard are repainted to a commercially acceptable standard.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be partially upheld. Black Horse Limited should 
take the actions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2020. 

Jane Archer
Ombudsman