DRN-2151285
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs D say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C took out an MPPI policy in his sole name alongside a mortgage in 1994. Mrs D was 
added to the policy in 2003 and they paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Mrs Ds case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
1994 sale
As the sale happened over 25 years ago, there is limited information available from the time. 
So, where I dont have any clear evidence, Ive considered what I know about the way HSBC 
sold these policies in general and thought about what I think is most likely to have happened 
on everything Ive been told. 
Mr C says he was unaware the policy had been added. In my experience of how HSBC sold 
polices like Mr C and Mrs Ds at the time, it usually made it clear that the MPPI was optional. 
In the absence of persuasive evidence that something very different happened in this case  
I think its most likely that HSBC made it clear to Mr C that the MPPI was optional and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. 
2003 amendment
The policy was amended in 2003 to add Mrs D as a joint policy holder at the same time Mr C 
and Mrs D refinanced the mortgage. 
Again, there is limited information available. But like the earlier sale, this isnt unusual given 
how long ago this happened. And from what I know about how HSBC sold policies at the 
time, again I think its most likely that HSBC made Mr C and Mrs D aware that they had a 
choice about buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. And nothing from what Mr C 
and Mrs D have said makes me think HSBC did anything different here.  But  like with the 
original sale - I can understand why they cant remember this now given that this happened 
around 17 years ago. 
Its not clear for either the 1994 sale or the amendment in 2003 whether HSBC 
recommended the policy to Mr C and Mrs D. But I dont think that matters, because given 
their circumstances at the time of each sale, I think the policy would have been suitable for 
them. 
For example, Mr C and Mrs D werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. Ive considered whether the 
policy was still suitable for Mr C in 2003, as hes told us he was self-employed. Ive carefully 
reviewed the terms of the policy, but I dont think being self-employed would have made it 
any more difficult for him to make a claim. 
Mr C and Mrs D say they wouldnt have needed the MPPI because at the time of each sale, 
they had adequate sick pay cover from their employers. But in both 1994 and 2003, the 
MPPI would have paid out on top of any sick pay they might have got, as well as covering 
them if they lost their jobs.
Ive noted Mr C and Mrs Ds comments about the other means they had in 2003 and the fact 
they had separated at the point Mrs D was added to the policy. But they were refinancing a 
large financial commitment secured against their jointly owned property. So, I think they 
would have wanted the security of knowing their mortgage repayments would have been 
covered if either of them was unable to work due to being made redundant or were too 
unwell to work. On this basis I think Mr C and Mrs D could have still found the policy useful. 
Looking at what Ive been given, its possible the information HSBC gave Mr C and Mrs D 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But there is nothing to indicate the 
MPPI wasnt affordable at the time of each sale. So, I dont think better information about the 
policies would have put them off from taking out the cover.  
I know Mr C and Mrs D feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. And Ive 
thought about all the points theyve raised. But overall, I dont think they have lost out as a 
result of anything HSBC might have done wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, the MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc 
does not have to pay back the costs of the MPPI to Mr C and Mrs D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman