DRN-3160738
The complaint
Mr L complained about repairs carried out to his car when he made claims under his car 
insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited. Mr L said a colour mismatch was 
identified by a lease company and it wouldnt accept the return of his car. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr L returned his car to a lease company who he had a financial arrangement 
with. 
The lease company said there was a colour mismatch following repairs and so wouldnt 
accept the car. Mr L said he hadnt noticed it as he is colour blind. Admiral had arranged 
repairs under a claim Mr L made against his car insurance policy in 2018. Mr L made a 
further claim in January 2019 for damage caused by another driver to the same area of his 
car. Admiral passed this claim to a credit hire company and they arranged further repairs. 
Mr L contacted Admiral in May 2020 and it arranged for an independent assessor (IA) to 
inspect Mr Ls car. The IA said that due to the time that had passed, it was more likely that 
Mr L had arranged further repairs which led to the colour mismatch. Mr L denied this. But 
Admiral didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr L asked us to look at his complaint in December 2020. In August 2021 our investigator 
didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She didnt take into account new information 
Mr L had provided since he brought his complaint to us. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said Admiral had since accepted it was responsible for the repairs.
Since June 2020 there was ongoing back and forth between Mr L and Admiral. Several 
inspections of Mr Ls car were carried out as he insisted he hadnt had any repairs carried 
out to his car outside of the claims hed made. He wanted Admiral to accept responsibility for 
the rectification repairs and for his losses as a result of the time that had passed since May 
2020 when he was unable to return the car. Mr L also complained about the service he 
received from Admiral. 
In January 2021 Mr Ls car was inspected by another IA. This IA reported that liability for the 
repairs rested with the repairers. So Admiral told Mr L it made a business decision to 
arrange rectification repairs and would look to recover the costs from the respective garages. 
Between January 2021 and May 2021 there was further back and forth as Mr L remained 
unsatisfied with the rectification repairs and raised new concerns.  
In May 2021 Mr L provided us with further responses from Admiral about his ongoing 
complaint related to the repairs. Admiral agreed to cover the repairs as a goodwill gesture 
and to meet the costs of Mr Ls lease payments from January 2021 to May 2021. It said it 
didnt accept liability for the repairs, but wanted to resolve the matter for Mr L.
Admiral upheld some of Mr Ls complaints in relation to some poor service and delay and 
paid compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, and stationary costs. This 
came to a total of £392.17. As the rectification repairs issues remained, it paid Mr L a cash in 
lieu payment of £915 with VAT of £183. 
Admiral paid Mr L the equivalent of five monthly lease payments from January 2021 to May 
2021 totalling £1,164.96. 
In October 2021 our investigator issued a second view to both parties  in light of the fact 
this was a change of outcome in relation to Mr Ls original complaint about the repairs. 
Having considered the findings of the IA in January 2021, she thought Admiral should do 
more to put things right for Mr L. She thought it unlikely that Mr L had arranged for repairs to 
the same area of the car  having made claims to Admiral for previous repairs. She thought 
it more likely that Admiral was responsible for the colour mismatch. And so she thought 
Admiral should meet the costs of the lease payments Mr L has had to make since May 2020 
when the lease company didnt accept the return of his car. 
She thought Admiral had caused Mr L considerable distress and inconvenience as hed had 
to raise his concerns a number of times with Admiral about the repairs and his car had been 
inspected multiple times by assessors. Meanwhile Mr L had to continue to make the lease 
payments. So she recommended Admiral pay Mr L £300 compensation. 
Mr L accepts the investigators second view. Admiral asked for more time to respond, which 
we granted. As the extended deadline has now passed, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered matters up to and including Admirals final response to Mr L dated 17 May 
2021. As Mr L accepted the investigators second view, I dont intend to go into detail as to 
the complaints Mr L made about the service he received and delays  suffice to say having 
reviewed everything I think Admiral has compensated Mr L fairly for the remaining 
complaints between May 2020 and 17 May 2021.
In relation to the colour mismatch repairs, Ive reviewed the IAs report from January 2021. 
Key comments from this report are:
I have previously spoken to the repairers regarding liability. They advised it is 
possible the owner had damaged the vehicle, and had it repaired elsewhere and the 
poor paint match was as a result of this. This is a difficult case to argue with as the 
owner repudiates this accusation. 
In my opinion, (two garages that carried out the repairs names inserted here) 
respectively are liable for the above rectification work.
I understand Admiral says it doesnt accept liability for the repairs  but has made a business 
decision in order to resolve matters for Mr L. 
Applying our fair and reasonable approach, I think the information shows that on balance, its 
less likely that Mr L had further paint repairs carried out to his car  and that this caused a 
colour mismatch  rather than the two sets of repairs carried out to the area in 2018 and 
2019. There were a number of assessors involved in the inspection of Mr Ls car since he 
raised his concerns with Admiral in May 2020. I appreciate Admiral has agreed to cover the lease repayments from January 2021 to May 2021. But I dont think this is enough to put 
things right for Mr L. The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that the repairs were poorly carried out 
and as a result he has incurred losses because the lease company rejected the car in May 
2020. I dont think its Mr Ls fault that matters took until January 2021 for his complaint to be 
accepted.
So it follows that  as an IA in their opinion found the garages to be responsible for the 
repairs  I think Admiral should meet Mr Ls lease payments from the date he raised his 
concerns and became aware of the problem. 
And in addition to the compensation Admiral has already paid, I think it should pay Mr L 
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to manage the 
lease payments since May 2020, being involved in multiple assessments of his car until 
January 2021 and the ongoing communication with Admiral in that time to support his 
complaint. 
I think Admiral should pay Mr L the equivalent of the lease payments from the date he raised 
his concerns with Admiral to and including December 2020  this is in addition to the 
payments it has made to Mr L already for January 2021 to May 2021 and the compensation 
its already paid for its poor service and delay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mr L for the lease payments he made for his car from the date he 
raised his concerns about the colour mismatch up to and including December 
2020. This is in addition to the lease payments Admiral has already agreed to 
cover from January 2021 to May 2021. 
Pay Mr L £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused between 
May 2020 and May 2021 in proving his complaint to Admiral about the repairs, 
being involved in multiple assessments of his car during this time and the worry 
of having to make the lease payments after the date he intended to return the 
car. This is in addition to compensation Admiral has already paid up to and 
including 17 May 2021.
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman