DRN-2930843
This complaint is about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out with two store
cards in March and June 2002. Weve split the matter in to two separate complaints, but Im
going to issue the same decision letter for both cases, because they are intrinsically linked in
my view, and my final decision in respect of both is the same.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about these two complaints, in June 2021. I said I was 
minded to uphold them both, however I gave all the parties a month to respond with any 
more information or arguments they wanted me to consider.
Ive not had any replies from either party which cause me to change my thoughts on the 
case.
What happened
As I explained in my PD, Miss M was sold two PPI policies with store cards. The first was in 
March 2002 with a Dorothy Perkins store card and the second was in June 2002 with a Top 
Shop store card. 
The company now responsible for dealing with Miss Ms complaint is called AXA France 
IARD so thats the business Ill refer to.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
the cases. 
Having done this, Im upholding Miss Ms PPI complaints for both store cards.
As I explained in my PD, for the first account  Dorothy Perkins  we no longer seem to have 
the original application form available to look at. But knowing what I do about these types of 
sales, I think Miss M would have needed to tick a box on the store card application form for 
the PPI to be set up. We also know she was charged a total of £816.44 for PPI for all the 
years she had the card account. She would therefore have been able to see these charges 
being applied to the account regularly. This makes it much more likely that she consented to 
the PPI in the first place - and she could therefore see the PPI existed on her account.
For the Top Shop card account however, we do have a copy of the application form. This 
included Miss Ms signature at the point where PPI was offered, and once again, she spent 
considerably on the account. Miss M was charged £318.84 for PPI on this second store 
card, so once again, I think she could see that PPI was present on this account.
However, the crux of this complaint is whether Miss M was ever eligible for either of the PPI
policies and whether she could ever have accessed the main benefits. 
The company representing Miss M says she was not eligible because she wasnt working 
the required number of hours. And as per the policy rules, applicants should have been in 
both permanent employment and working at least 16 hours per week to be eligible for the 
PPI benefits.
AXA France IARD didnt agree to uphold these complaints mainly because it says Miss Ms
recollections were somewhat unclear about when she thought the sales were. It implied her 
recollections about her work status couldnt be relied upon. So our adjudicator asked for 
Miss M to provide supporting evidence that she wasnt working up to 16 hours in a 
permanent job.
Ive thought about how fair and reasonable it is to hold Miss M responsible for obtaining this 
information now, almost two decades later. In my experience, the application forms for many 
of these store cards were very brief indeed and the description of the PPI charges were
sometimes poor or absent completely. The June 2002 form for this case (Top Shop) does
actually ask the applicant to confirm they met the eligibility criteria  but on Miss Ms form
this wasnt ticked. So she hadnt confirmed she met the eligibility criteria.
In my view, this is a significant omission and a failure by the business to diligently check 
through the completed application form. The form indicates she did not meet the eligibility 
criteria - but it seems the PPI was added nonetheless. 
As a regulated business selling large numbers of such policies, the failure on the selling side 
is both obvious and serious in my view. The omission also goes some considerable way to 
substantiate Miss Ms main point that she didnt meet the eligibility conditions.
Also for the Top Shop card, I also note there were two handwritten indications on the form, 
marked with an x, as to where Miss M ought to sign her name; one such indication (x) was 
directly beside the PPI yes option box. I think it exacerbates the notion that Miss M was 
simply told where to sign.
As Ive said, we dont have access to the first store card application form at all. But as this 
was only three months before the second sale, I make the reasonable assumption that Miss 
Ms employment situation was identical. That assumption is that she was indeed not eligible 
for the PPI, as per her testimony to us, and as confirmed three months later by her leaving 
the eligibility box unticked for the second PPI sale. As I say, the business should have 
checked  and then questioned  that omission.
Miss M wasnt recently able to find hard evidence of her employment situation of 2002. 
However, this was a long time ago. And Im not going to find against her for the absence of 
this information when AXA France IARD itself couldnt clarify her employed status either. 
The business failed to ask her any questions about her job on the point of sale application 
forms and it evidently failed to record her (employment) eligibility elsewhere on its systems. 
So in short, I dont think its fair for AXA France IARD to imply evidence of her employment is 
now critical to the outcome of these complaints, when it obviously placed no value 
whatsoever on the importance of this information when it was selling her the cover.
On the other hand, Miss M did demonstrate to us that she had a young child at that time. In 
my view this is further persuasive evidence that she probably wasnt eligible for either policy, 
as supported by her testimony and the application form Ive mentioned above.
Im therefore upholding in full, the complaints in respect of both store cards.
what AXA needs to do to put matters right
AXA should put Miss M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.A. AXA should find out how much Miss M would owe on her store cards if the policy 
hadnt been added to them. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss M owes and what she 
would have owed. If Miss M made a successful claim under either PPI policy, AXA can 
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If when AXA works out what Miss M would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Miss M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss 
M wouldve owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C. AXA should tell Miss M what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Miss M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and I require AXA France IARD 
to pay the compensation Ive mentioned above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman