DRN-4199517
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Blue Motor Finance Limited (BM) handled the rejection of a 
car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement, when he complained about its quality. 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BM. 
He experienced problems with the rear parking assist and an engine management light 
around two weeks after acquiring the car, and had a diagnostic completed at the beginning 
of October 2022 which identified faults with the car. Mr A received an estimate for repairs to 
replace the alternator, glow plug with pressure sensor and exhaust temperature sensor at a 
cost of £917. 
Mr A complained to BM about the quality of the car in October 2022 and told them he 
wanted to exercise his right to reject it within the first 30 days. Mr A subsequently returned 
the car to the dealership, and they informed him it had been repaired and asked him to 
collect it in mid-October 2022. Mr A said theyd repaired the car without his permission as 
hed wanted to reject it. 
The car broke down at the end of October 2022, and Mr A paid for it to be recovered for a 
garage. BM agreed to the rejection of the vehicle, and they sent Mr A their final response to 
his complaint in November 2022 confirming that they would arrange for the car to be 
collected and would calculate the refund due to Mr A once this had been done. 
There was some confusion over the location of the car, which meant it wasnt collected until 
mid-December 2022. BM told Mr A that theyd refund his £1,500 deposit, pay £100 
compensation for the delays, and refund £65.18 of the monthly payments hed made which 
was after a deduction of 25 pence per mile for the miles hed driven in the car. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said BM 
should refund all of the payments hed made under the agreement. He also asked for 
compensation for the higher interest rate hes paying on his new car, as it was previously 
10% and his new agreement was 18%. 
Our investigator gave her view that it was accepted that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
She thought that BM should add 8% interest to the deposit refund, refund Mr A £100 for the 
recovery of the vehicle plus interest, refund Mr As diagnostic costs if he could provide 
evidence of these, remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file, refund any of the 
payments Mr A made after 26 October 2022 plus interest, as this was when hed been 
unable to use the car from, and that they could keep the payments Mr A made before this 
date to reflect fair usage for the use Mr A had of the vehicle. She didnt think Mr As use of 
the vehicle had been excessive, and there was no allowance in the agreement for an excess 
mileage charge, so she didnt think it was fair for BM to charge for use at a pence per mile 
amount. 
Our investigator said she couldnt consider Mr As complaint about the new agreement as it 
was a separate agreement, and she couldnt see that Mr A had raised this complaint with 
BM. 
Mr A accepted our investigators recommendations. 
BM accepted the majority of our investigators recommendations, but they didnt agree with 
her view on the charge for fair usage. They said Mr A had driven the vehicle 2,365 miles 
between entering the agreement on 10 September 2022 and 26 October 2022 when the car 
was recovered. BM said this was more than average, and so it was fair for them to charge a 
pence per mile for fair usage rather than the monthly payments being fair. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision
. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. BM as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
Its not disputed that BM supplied Mr A with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality, and 
theyve agreed that Mr A is entitled to his right to reject the car. It has been collected, and Mr 
As deposit has been refunded. So, I havent considered this further. 
Ive considered whether BM have done enough to put things right. 
Mr A had the vehicle recovered after it broke down on 26 October 2022 and was unable to 
use it again afterwards prior to its collection in December 2022. As Mr A had no use of the 
vehicle past this date, I find its fair that BM refund any payments Mr A made toward the 
agreement from 26 October 2022 onwards, plus interest. 
BM have charged Mr A 25 pence per mile for the 2,365 miles that hed driven the car. They 
say his use of the car was above average, and so this charge is fair.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out that where the right to reject is exercised, the 
business is entitled to make a deduction for fair usage from any refund due to the consumer.
When Mr A and BM entered the agreement, they agreed that a fair charge for the use of the 
vehicle was £218.81 a month. The agreement doesnt contain a mileage allowance, and 
there is no provision for BM to charge for any excess miles covered. 
So, I think the monthly payment is a fair starting point when considering what is fair for BM to 
deduct for use of the car. 
Mr A covered 2,365 miles in around a month and a half. Whilst this is above average, I dont 
think its excessive usage. Theres a possibility that Mr As use of the car may have evened 
out to average if hed had it for the full duration of the agreement. So, I find that the monthly 
payments under the agreement reflect a fair amount for the use Mr A had of the car, and so 
BM can keep the payments that Mr A made up until 26 October 2022, rather than a charge 
per mile driven. Mr A was unable to use the vehicle for around a week whilst it was in the dealership, and he 
was unable to use it whilst diagnostics were taking place. BM have refunded £65.18 of Mr 
As monthly payments already, and I think this fairly compensates Mr A for these times he 
was without the vehicle. 
BM have refunded Mr As £1,500 deposit but have not paid interest on this amount. Mr A 
was deprived of the use of these funds and so I find that BM should pay Mr A 8% simple 
interest on this from the date of payment to the date of the refund. 
Mr A paid £100 to have the vehicle recovered when it broke down. He wouldnt have needed 
to pay this but for BM supplying him with a vehicle that was unsatisfactory quality, and so I 
find that BM should refund this amount, plus interest. 
Mr A has said that he paid to have diagnostics completed on the vehicle. I havent seen any 
evidence of the cost of these. But Mr A wouldnt have needed to pay for diagnostics but for 
BM supplying him with a vehicle that was unsatisfactory quality. So, if Mr A can provide 
evidence of the cost he paid for the diagnostics, BM should refund these costs, plus interest. 
Mr A has been put to distress and inconvenience in having to complete diagnostics on the 
car, visit a garage a number of times, and in the delay in collecting the vehicle once rejection 
was agreed. BM have paid Mr A £100 compensation for this. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that £100 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr A. 
Mr A has asked to be compensated for an increased interest rate on a new agreement. If Mr 
A remains unhappy with the new agreement, he may wish to raise a complaint about this 
with BM. If hes unhappy with their response he may be able to ask this service to consider 
it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and Blue Motor Finance Limited must: 
Refund Mr As monthly payments from 26 October 2022 onwards 
Refund Mr A £100 for the recovery of the vehicle
Refund Mr As diagnostic costs if Mr A is able to provide evidence of these. 
Pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts, including Mr As deposit, from the 
date of payment to the date of refund. 
Remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file
If BM considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest part of my award, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman