DRN-3020753
The complaint
Mr T complains about Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox). His complaint relates to 
how Hiscox dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy following an accident and 
their decision to consider him at fault for the accident.
References to Hiscox include their agents who assess claims.
What happened
In 2016 Mr T was involved in an accident when his vehicle was hit by a third party while he 
was changing lanes on a motorway. Mr T thought that the accident was the fault of the third 
party. Mr T told Hiscox about the accident and completed an incident report form but didnt 
make a claim for the damage to his vehicle pending determination of liability. Hiscox wrote to 
Mr T saying that on the basis of the incident report form they held him responsible for the 
accident. Hiscox subsequently settled the third partys costs of damage to their vehicle. 
Mr T told us he subsequently had no contact with Hiscox and his vehicle wasnt repaired as 
Mr T considered it to be evidence of the accident being the fault of the third party. Mr T said 
that he was contacted by Hiscox in 2020 and told that he was considered to be at fault for 
the accident.
Mr T complained to Hiscox, who didnt uphold his complaint. In their final response letter of 
July 2020, Hiscox confirmed their decision to hold Mr T at fault for the accident, based on the 
evidence available to them. Hiscox also noted that their claims assessor had previously 
reached the same decision in 2018.
Mr T complained to this service. He was unhappy at Hiscox holding him at fault for the 
accident, which he maintained was the fault of the third party. Mr T was also unhappy at a 
lack of communication from Hiscox and disregard of his efforts to engage with them. He 
asked that Hiscox find the third party at fault and that the third party insurer should pay for 
repairs to his vehicle.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Hiscox had told Mr T of their 
decision to hold him at fault shortly after the accident. The investigator also concluded that 
Hiscoxs decision was reasonable, based on the circumstances and evidence available and 
that there werent any significant failings in the service Hiscox provided to Mr T.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Hiscox has acted fairly towards Mr T.
The key issue in Mr Ts complaint is that he doesnt agree with Hiscoxs decision to hold him 
at fault for the accident, and that the third party was at fault (and should therefore pay for the 
repair of the damage to his vehicle). In considering this issue I would note that we arent 
claims assessors, so were not able to determine fault (or liability). Our role is to consider 
whether Hiscox acted fairly in coming to their decision that Mr T was at fault for the accident.
 
Ive looked carefully at the evidence on this point, including the statements from Mr T as well 
as Hiscoxs responses to Mr Ts concerns, both at the time of the accident, and then in 2018 
and 2020. Its clear that Hiscox did consider the circumstances of the accident, for example 
that Mr T was changing lanes. But also Mr Ts contention that the third party was speeding. 
So, while I recognise that Mr T believes strongly that the third party was at fault, I dont think 
Hiscox acted unfairly or unreasonably.
 
As Ive concluded that Hiscox didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in holding Mr T at fault for 
the accident, then theres no basis for them to hold the third party at fault or for the third 
party to pay for repairs to Mr Ts vehicle. From the evidence Ive seen, Mr Ts policy is fully 
comprehensive so even though Hiscox held him at fault for the accident, he would be able to 
make a claim for the damage to his vehicle. I understand that he does not wish to do so, 
believing the third party to be at fault and therefore should pay for the repairs. While I 
understand Mr Ts view, I dont think there are grounds (given my conclusion about Hiscoxs 
decision to hold Mr T at fault) to ask Hiscox to do anything more, unless Mr T makes a claim 
for the damage to his vehicle. Hiscox have said that they would consider a claim, should he 
wish to do so. I think thats fair and reasonable.
The second aspect of Mr Ts complaint is that Hiscox didnt communicate with him and 
disregarded his efforts to engage with them. The accident occurred in May 2016 and Mr T 
provided an incident report form dated five days after the accident. Hiscox wrote to Mr T nine 
days after the date of the form, informing him that, based on the form, they were holding him 
at fault for the accident. Ive also seen Mr Ts letter to Hiscoxs claims assessor and their 
subsequent response in 2018, the latter was in the same month as the former. Hiscox also 
responded within a reasonable time when Mr T complained to them in 2020. Ive seen no 
other evidence from Mr T about his communication with Hiscox, so Ive concluded that 
Hiscox have dealt with the matter in a fair and reasonable manner and have responded in a 
timely way when Mr T has engaged with them.
Overall, I think Hiscox acted fairly and reasonably in reaching the decision to hold Mr T at 
fault for the accident. Theyve also indicated that they are willing to consider a claim from Mr 
T for the damage to his vehicle, should he wish to do so. I also think theyve communicated 
with him clearly and in a timely way. So, I think Hiscox have acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman