DRN-4161765
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided poor service in that it sent an email late in 
the evening, wrote to her from the wrong bank and in her maiden name.
What happened
Mrs D had two accounts with Lloyds, one in her maiden name and another in her married 
name. She said she received emails from Lloyds stating it was closing her account. She then 
received a letter a bank that is part of the Lloyds group in her maiden name when she 
doesn't have such an account with this bank. 
Mrs D thinks that Lloyds has acted towards her in error and complained saying she would 
like to be financially compensated. Lloyds said it had opened her complaint under its other 
bank by mistake.
Lloyds apologised to Mrs D for an automated email sent late in the evening and said she still 
held an account with it in her maiden name and advised how this can be changed. Lloyds 
paid Mrs D £60 compensation for its poor service. 
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She said Lloyds paid £30 compensation for 
writing to Mrs D on another group businesses notepaper, which was fair. She didnt think 
Lloyds had to pay £30 compensation for an automated email late in the evening, but it had 
done. And as Mrs D still has an account in her maiden name and so its her responsibility to 
update her details. The investigator thought Lloyds response overall treated Mrs D fairly.
Mrs D wasnt happy with this outcome and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D isnt satisfied with Lloyds response to her complaint as she wasn't compensated for 
its letter being sent in her maiden name, when her complaint was made in her married 
name. She said this was a bank error.
Lloyds has apologised for its late evening email and error and so its my role to see if it has 
done enough to make things right for Mrs D. 
Mrs D has a bank account with Lloyds and in April 2023, she complained about emails shed 
received late at night. Lloyds apologised for the inconvenience caused and awarded £30 
compensation. A letter sent shortly after this complaint was closed, was in Mrs Ds maiden 
name and she complained again. Mrs D also received a letter from another of Lloyds group 
businesses and raised another complaint. Lloyds awarded £30 compensation for the error.
I think the compensation awarded for receiving an email late in the evening and on another 
Lloyds group business was fair and I dont require Lloyds to do anything further. I have gone 
on to consider Mrs Ds complaint about receiving a letter from Lloyds in her maiden name. 
Lloyds has explained the reason for this was that Mrs D still has an account with the bank in 
her maiden name. And Lloyds has told her how this can be changed.
Having considered all aspects of Mrs Ds complaint I agree with the investigator that Lloyds 
has properly addressed her concerns and treated her fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman