DRN-2565523
The complaint
Mr M complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Natwest Insurance, are responsible 
for damage to his car when attending it under his roadside assistance insurance policy.
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as UKI are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr M unfortunately locked his keys in his car  so he called UKI to help 
him get access. In the process of this Mr Ms window was broken, and he says UKIs 
technician never told him this was a possibility. So, he complained and asked them to pay 
for the window to be repaired.
UKI said to understand whatd happened, they spoke to the technician who attended Mr Ms 
car. UKI said they were told the technician had warned Mr M there was a high risk of the 
window breaking because of the type of car he had  and that Mr M had told the technician 
after this to continue trying to get access. During this, unfortunately the window smashed. 
UKI said they referred to their internal engineers, who confirmed there was a potential for 
the window to break  and its standard practice to have told Mr M about this possibility in 
this situation. Because of that, they didnt agree to pay for the cost of the window as Mr M 
had asked.
Unhappy with this Mr M asked us to look into things  explaining hed never been asked to 
sign a waiver to confirm he was happy to accept the possibility of the window breaking. We 
asked UKI to provide their file  which included the statement from the technician who 
attended Mr Ms car. In addition to saying theyd explained the risks to Mr M of the window 
smashing, they asked about spare keys Mr M may have had. They said Mr M told them 
there was a spare car key in his house, but his house keys were attached to his car keys  
which were inside the car.
Our investigator considered everything, but overall felt UKI werent required to pay for a 
replacement window for Mr M. She said she was persuaded the technician had explained 
the window could break, and that Mr M still wanted them to try and get access to the car. 
She added that as Mr M had no other way of getting into his car or home, she wasnt sure 
what else could have been done in that situation, and she thought the waiver not being 
signed was due to the social distancing requirements rather than anything else. In addition, 
the policy terms didnt cover damage if it was caused by UKI when attempting to access 
someones car.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He maintained he wasnt told what would happen, 
and they should have given him a waiver to sign so if anything happened it wouldnt be their 
responsibility. Because of this the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that if UKI havent applied the policy terms correctly, or if I think 
UKI havent acted fairly then, under my fair and reasonable remit, I can require them to meet 
Mr Ms claims. But, while I understand Mr M will be disappointed, for reasons Ill go on to 
explain I wont be requiring UKI to meet Mr Ms costs for a replacement window.
The policy terms say UKI wont pay out for damage caused to Mr Ms car if they try and get 
access to it. So, Im satisfied theyve acted correctly under the policy terms.
Mr M says he was never told it was possible the window could be smashed. The technician 
who attended Mr Ms car said they did tell him this was a possibility, and he asked them to 
carry on. 
As I wasnt present at the time, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened. To help me decide that, Ive looked at the evidence we have been provided with.
This includes a statement from the technician who attended Mr Ms car. Theyve given an 
account which explains what they were doing, why this kind of damage could occur, and that 
theyd asked Mr M about continuing to try and get access. UKI also asked their internal 
engineers department  who said this would have a possibility of damage to the window. 
And they said its standard procedure to have told Mr M about this potential issue.
Im persuaded by these pieces of information. It seems more likely than not that a technician 
attending a car where there is a real risk of damage would mention it to the car owner. Ive 
also not seen anything to suggest the technician took the wrong approach trying to get into 
Mr Ms car either which would have caused the damage incorrectly.
I note Mr M has pointed to no waiver being completed  which would absolve UKI of any 
responsibility. But I dont think the lack of a signed waiver means UKI did anything wrong 
based on the information Ive seen.
Overall then, Im persuaded by UKIs evidence its more likely than not they did tell Mr M 
about the potential issues if they continued to try and get access to his car  and he agreed 
for them to keep trying. Ive also not seen anything to suggest the technician acted 
incorrectly in trying to get access to the car. Because of these points, I wont be telling UKI to 
meet Mr Ms costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman