DRN-2334884
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to add an exclusion to her 
babys cover when she asked for the baby to be included under her membership of her 
employers group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F was a member of her employers group private medical insurance policy, held with 
BUPA. The policy also provided cover for Mrs Fs partner and their child. 
In February 2019, Mrs F gave birth to a baby boy. The policy allowed Mrs F to ask for the 
new baby to be included under her membership and, provided she did this within three 
months of the birth, BUPA would not apply any special conditions to the babys cover.
In July 2019, Mrs Fs baby unfortunately needed medical treatment but she hadnt yet asked 
BUPA to include him under her membership. She now asked BUPA to do this. BUPA agreed 
to do so but it imposed an exclusion for the condition for which the baby needed treatment, 
meaning that Mrs F was not able to make an eligible claim for the cost of this.
Mrs F complained to BUPA about its decision. She considered it should have been prepared 
to include the baby under her membership with no exclusions and therefore pay for the 
current treatment, as this is what it would have done if she had made her request two 
months earlier.
BUPA wouldnt change its position. It maintained it had acted fairly and in accordance with 
the terms of the policy.
Mrs F was unhappy at BUPAs response. She referred her complaint to us. She 
acknowledged that she hadnt complied with the policy requirement to ask for her baby to be 
included under her membership within three months of the birth but she said that no 
additional premium would have been payable and therefore BUPA hadnt been prejudiced by 
the fact she hadnt made her request sooner. She additionally said that BUPA had originally 
assured her employer that there would be no problem with adding the baby to the 
membership with no special conditions before it later changed its mind.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that BUPA had done nothing wrong.
Mrs F didnt accept the investigators findings. She continued to feel that BUPA was not 
treating her fairly given that she had simply made an administrative error which caused it no 
prejudice.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy, under the heading Cover for a newborn baby,  states:
If the sponsor agrees, you may apply to include your newborn baby under your membership 
as one of your dependants. If your babys membership would be as:
an underwritten member, we will not apply any special conditions to the babys cover
a moratorium member, we will not apply the exclusion for moratorium conditions to the 
babys cover  see Exclusion 33 in the section What is not covered
but only if both the following apply:
you and/or your partner have been covered under the scheme (and if applicable a 
previous scheme) for at least 12 continuous months before the babys birth and
you include your baby under your membership within three months of the babys birth.
In which case if we agree to cover your baby it will be from their date of birth or your cover 
start date if their date of birth is before your cover start date.
I consider this is clear in explaining that Mrs F (who was an underwritten member) could 
apply for her baby to be included under her membership without any special conditions 
being attached to the cover provided she made this application within three months of the 
date of birth. I furthermore consider that this is a reasonable timescale for such an 
application to be made.
Mrs F has explained that she was unaware of this requirement. However, I consider the 
onus was on her to make herself familiar with the policys requirements rather than assume 
her baby would automatically be covered without any action on her part. I also note that 
Mrs F received her renewal documents in February 2019, shortly after her baby had been 
born, and her membership certificate showed the cover applied to her, her partner and their 
first child. While I appreciate that Mrs F would have been occupied by her new baby at this 
time, I nonetheless consider that this showed the new baby was not automatically covered 
under the policy.
It wasnt until July 2019, over four and a half months following the birth, that Mrs F asked 
BUPA to provide cover for her new baby. BUPA agreed to provide cover but it chose to 
impose an exclusion for a pre-existing condition which the baby had unfortunately 
developed. BUPA was under no obligation by this stage to provide cover without applying 
special conditions and Im satisfied that it acted in accordance with the policys terms and 
conditions when it chose to add the exclusion.
Mrs F says that the addition of her baby to the policy did not necessitate her paying any 
additional premium. She therefore considers that BUPA was not prejudiced by the late 
notification of the birth. On this basis, she considers BUPA should remove the exclusion and 
pay her claim.
We would normally say it is unfair for an insurer to rely on the breach of an administrative 
requirement to decline a claim unless the insurer can show that this breach has caused it 
prejudice. However, I dont consider that this is relevant here. This is because BUPA hasnt, 
directly relied on the late notification of the birth to decline a claim. Mrs Fs baby wasnt 
covered under the policy until she asked BUPA to include it under her membership in July 
2019. The late notification has affected BUPAs decision to offer cover for the baby and on 
what terms. It is this decision to which Mrs F has objected, rather than the claims decision which has subsequently flowed from this. Once the three month deadline had passed, BUPA 
was under no obligation to include the baby under Mrs Fs membership without applying any 
special conditions. While I can understand Mrs Fs frustration, Im satisfied BUPA acted in 
accordance with the policy terms by deciding to impose an exclusion and I dont consider I 
can reasonably raise the issue of prejudice or say that its action was unfair.
Given that Im satisfied BUPA acted fairly by imposing an exclusion on the babys cover 
when it included the baby under Mrs Fs membership, it follows that I consider it was fair for 
BUPA to rely on that exclusion and decline Mrs Fs claim for the cost of the babys treatment.
Mrs F says that BUPA assured her employer that it would allow the baby to added to the 
policy without any special conditions being attached before it changed its mind a short time 
later. However, I havent seen evidence of this or to show that any such change of mind 
caused Mrs F to incur treatment costs which she wouldnt otherwise have incurred.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs F, I consider that BUPA has not done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman