DRN-3387285
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Financial Private Clients Limited (FPC) failed to advise Mr S
about his lifetime allowance (LTA). As a result, Mr S says he has exceeded the LTA and he
is seeking redress from FPC for the losses he and Mrs S have and will sustain because of
this.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 8 March 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I was minded to not uphold it were set 
out in that decision. I have copied the relevant parts of the decision here, and it forms part of 
this final decision.
In February 2020 Mr S made a formal complaint to FPC that it failed to advise him about the
LTA and his options to apply for protection in 2016. In summary he said:
His new advisers had recently made him aware that his pension pots exceeded the 
LTA.
Until this time, hed been unaware of the implications of this issue.
As hed been receiving financial advice from FPC for a significant period he didnt 
understand how this was the case.
His position has been further exacerbated as under FPCs guidance and advice, for 
which hed paid, hed been making further contributions to his pension fund.
He could have applied for protection of the LTA at £1.25 million in 2016 but is now 
precluded from doing so as he continued to make contributions beyond when they 
were allowed for this protection.
His wife, Mrs S, a fellow shareholder and employee of the company, could easily 
have benefitted from his employers pension contribution which could have been 
redirected to her.
As a result, he believes he has been and will be financially disadvantaged by the 
advice, or lack thereof, FPC have provided him and would like this remedied 
accordingly.
FPC responded in May 2020 and didnt uphold the complaint. It said:
A review of Mr Ss pensions took place in 2015, but this was restricted to his existing 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP), which had a value of around £284,000.
He had other pensions at the time, a group personal pension (GPP) worth around 
£11,000 and two deferred defined benefit scheme pensions, one projecting an 
income of around £10,683 per year and the other paying about £7,900 a year. As it 
was only reviewing Mr Ss SIPP no updated figures were obtained so all of the 
figures were as at the date Mr S left the schemes.
At this time, there was no form of protection available to Mr S.
When further information was released regarding Fixed Protection 2016 and 
Individual Protection 2016 FPC carried out a review of their clients but determined 
that Mr Ss funds were below the limit which had been set for eligibility to apply for 
these protections.
In 2017 FPC contacted Mr S with a view to reviewing his defined benefit schemes 
and the possibility of transferring. During this time the relationship deteriorated and 
following the suspension of their services by Mr S, FPC were unable to obtain 
information necessary for it to provide him with specific information about any 
benefits which could have been gained by applying for protections.
Its likely that when Mr S retires the LTA will be greater than what was offered under 
the protection schemes, so Mr S hasnt suffered a financial loss.
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought the complaint to this service. One of our
investigators looked into things and concluded the complaint should be upheld. She said in
summary:
Given that FPC were Mr Ss financial advisers from 2013 to 2018 she didnt think it 
was unreasonable for Mr S to have expected to be advised on the pension legislation 
that was likely to have an impact on him.
There was no evidence to suggest FPC carried out a full review of Mr Ss pensions 
prior to 2015, so FPC should have advised Mr S to apply for protection following this.
FPC should have warned Mr S of the impact of the reduction of the LTA to £1.25 
million in 2014/2015 and again when it was reduced to £1 million in 2016.
Had FPC done so, Mr S would have applied for protection before the changes took 
place.
Although FPC said that they did review whether Mr S should apply for LTA protection 
and concluded that he didnt need to as the LTA would increase annually with the 
consumer price index (CPI), this wasnt reasonable as the CPI can go down as well 
as up.
The investigator went on to propose a methodology to calculate any loss suffered by Mr and
Mrs S from 2015 as a result of FPCs actions.
FPC didnt accept the investigators view and said in summary:
Mrs S couldnt be brought into the issue as she was not a client of FPC and its remit 
wasnt to advise her.
FPC was under the impression that had it advised Mr S to have his employers 
pension contributions paid to his wife instead, this would be tax fraud and a criminal 
act.
As Mrs S cannot be included, no loss has been incurred as the LTA will be in excess 
of the fixed rate when benefits are taken.
The value of the pension that is growing over the allowance has come from 
investment growth achieved while the fund was under FPC management, not 
because Mr S has been paying in too much or showing any intention of paying 
money into his pension.
Fixing protection will disadvantage Mr S in the long run.
Mr and Mrs S also didnt agree with everything the investigator said. Specifically, they
thought redress should be based on him having applied for protection in 2014.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The LTA was £1,800,000 from 6 April 2010. But things changed in 2010 when the
government announced reductions to the LTA to take effect from April 2012 when the LTA
would reduce to £1,500,000. It would reduce further to £1,250,000 in April 2014. And to
£1,000,000 in April 2016. Various protections were also introduced during this time to allow
people to lock in an LTA before it was reduced.
Ive been provided evidence that FPC were acting in some capacity for Mr S from at least
2013. Neither party has provided any evidence concerning the scope of this relationship,
including the services agreed to and those provided. But it is evident that a fact find was
completed by FPC for Mr and Mrs S sometime in 2013. Mr S asserts since he received
advice from this time, he should have been advised to take out Fixed Protection 2014. As he
can no longer do so as the deadline was 5 April 2014, he has been disadvantaged.
I appreciate Mr Ss argument here, but I havent seen evidence that financial advice had
been provided during this time. I consider the information gathered in 2013 was more likely
than not part of a general financial review. Completion of a fact find, or a general financial
review like this isnt, in itself, a regulated activity. Neither is solely advising on mitigating tax
charges. In situations like these its usually the recommendation, sale or advice (or not)
regarding an insurance, pension or investment product that means a regulated activity has
occurred. Given everything Ive been provided so far, Im not currently persuaded that a
regulated activity took place before 2015. So Im unable to say that FPC should have
advised Mr S to apply for LTA protections before this time.
But Mr S could have still applied for Individual Protection 2014 until 5 April 2017. And I have
seen a copy of the suitability report and recommendations for a transfer of an existing SIPP
to a SIPP managed by a DFM dated on 22 July 2015. It specified, in bold:
This report is focused on advice concerning the transfer of your existing 
pension arrangement to a Discretionary Fund Management Service and no other 
matters are addressed.
Advice was given here, and FPC did have information about all of Mr Ss pension provision,
but the scope of the advice was clearly limited and wouldnt have required FPC to review
any of his other pension provision. So Im not convinced FPC had a duty to advise Mr S
regarding the LTA at this time. But even if Im wrong about this, FPC couldnt have advised
Mr S to apply for this protection because in order to be eligible he had to have benefits in
excess of £1.25 million on 5 April 2014. Mr S provided evidence that confirms that his
benefits were around £831,988 at this time. And hes said that he wasnt able to apply for
protection in 2017 because his benefits were around £931,180 and so less than £1 million
(the requirement for Individual Protection 2016). So Im satisfied that FPC couldnt have
recommended that Mr S apply for Individual Protection 2014 or Individual Protection 2016.The only remaining protection potentially available to Mr S was Fixed Protection 2016. This
applied to those consumers who had or expected to have pension benefits in excess of 
£1 million as at 5 April 2016. Fixed protection 2016 gives protection against any LTA charge 
on benefits worth up to £1.25m or the standard LTA if higher. Consumers can take 25% of 
the pension pot as a taxfree cash lump sum, up to 25% of £1.25m (£312,500). But no 
further contributions could be made after 5 April 2016  whether by the consumers or their
employers  and the consumer couldnt build up further pension benefits (although existing
benefits could increase in value to a limited extent). Fixed protection 2016 is lost if any
contribution or accrual occurred after 5 April 2016.
FPC said it looked into this and concluded this protection wasnt appropriate for Mr S. At this
time, Mr S was still several years from his expected retirement age of 65. He wasnt making
any personal contributions to a pension, but he was receiving considerable employer
contributions from his business. Based on Mr S's particular circumstances, it wasnt
inappropriate to conclude that Mr S benefitted greatly from the employer contributions to his
pension. If Mr S had applied for Fixed Protection 2016, no further contributions would have
been allowed. I dont think it was unreasonable for FPC to conclude this wouldnt be in
Mr Ss best interest, especially in light of the fact that his funds hadnt reached £1 million and
based on the information FPC had, he wasnt at risk of exceeding the LTA at that point. FPC
also reasoned, Mr S didnt intend to retire or another 10-15 years at which point the LTA may
well be higher.
I understand Mr S believes that he could have applied for Fixed Protection 2016 without
losing the benefit of his businesss pension contributions as these could have been
redirected to Mrs S, also an employee of his company. Im not in a position to determine if
this was possible. Regardless I dont consider that it was within FPCs remit to figure out a
way that Mr and Mrs S could collectively still benefit from these employer contributions by
redirecting them to Mrs S.
FPC didnt give Mr S advice about pension contributions; at all times he was a client of FPC
he didnt make any personal pension contributions. Instead, his business made employer
contributions to his pension. Fixed Protection is lost if any contribution is made after
5 April 2016. Considering Mr S circumstances, I would have expected the issue of the
employer contributions to have been part of his businesss financial planning. And Ive seen
no evidence to suggest that FPC provided pension advice to Mr Ss company or to Mrs S, so
I cant fairly hold them responsible for this.
Taking all the above into account, I said my provisional decision was the complaint should 
not be upheld. 
I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision.
FPC responded confirming it had nothing further to add. 
Mr S responded to say that he was completely shocked by my provisional decision and he 
provided several points of clarity, backed by historical evidence which he argues 
demonstrates that the advisers responsibilities and role was to provide broad independent 
financial advice to Mr and Mrs S, both of whom were shareholders and employees of their 
business from 2011. Mr S said this information supports his position that FPC consistently 
failed to provide professional advice to my company, my wife or myself. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not persuaded to change my provisional findings; I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr and 
Mrs S have about this matter. And they have provided detailed submissions to support their 
positions. Ive read and considered carefully all the information that has been provided, 
including Mr S most recent comments in response to my provisional decision. However, I 
hope the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, isnt seen as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every 
point raised, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
I think its also important that I explain that in this decision I can only consider Mr S 
complaint about FPCs failings in performing regulated activities for him in his personal 
capacity. So Ive not considered any arguments Mr S asserts pertaining to FPCs services to 
his business (and others in their roles as director and/or shareholder of the business). 
Furthermore, as previously explained, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I must decide what I consider is more likely to have 
happened, based on the balance of probabilities. And I think its appropriate to place more 
weight on the contemporaneous documentary evidence in reaching my decision.
In my provisional decision I noted that Id not seen any evidence concerning the scope of the 
relationship between Mr and Mrs S and FPC, including the services agreed to. Mr S 
responded describing FPCs role as:
a full service company including advising on and administering the company 
pension scheme, company life cover, company private medical insurance, and other 
insurance contracts. [The FPC adviser] liaised with the company CFO, director, 
and [Mr S] fellow shareholder in this role. [The FPC adviser] also provided pension 
advice to the employees of the company including directors and shareholders.
Mr S also explained that FPC took over from the original adviser appointed to act for his 
business beginning in 2009, and the stepped transition from the original adviser to FPC 
meant that neither the company nor [he] have a formal letter of engagement with FPC.
I appreciate the point Mr S is trying to make but I think if there was an agreement to provide 
the services as set out by Mr S, there would be some documentary evidence of it. And the 
explanation provided as to why there isnt relates to a purported agreement between FPC 
and Mr S business (FPCs obligations to Mr S business are not the subject of this 
complaint). It does not explain why there is no adviser agreement available between Mr S 
and FPC. And critically, Ive seen no agreement between Mrs S and FPC, even though this 
relationship was to have started in 2011, after FPC took over from the original provider. 
The evidence recently provided by Mr S primarily evidences that FPC provided information 
to Mr S, Mrs S and to shareholders and directors of their business. It also demonstrates that 
FPC was involved with arranging other, non-pension related financial products on behalf of 
the business, for the benefit of Mr and Mrs S. And while I dont dispute that FPC did have a 
long-standing relationship with Mr and Mrs S this doesnt change the fact that the only 
evidence Ive seen of a regulated activity for which advice about mitigating tax (itself not a 
regulated activity) would reasonably have been expected didnt happen until 2015. And contrary to Mr S recent assertion, Ive seen no evidence of any instruction for FPC to 
investigate how Mr S could optimise returns across the entire portfolio and not just the 
SIPP at this time. The contemporaneous documentary evidence Ive seen says the advice 
provided at the time was limited. So I remain unpersuaded that FPC had a duty to advise 
Mr S regarding the LTA in 2015.
Furthermore, as noted in my provisional decision, even if Im wrong about this, Mr S wouldnt 
have been eligible for any protection other than Fixed Protection 2016. FPC said it 
considered Fixed Protection 2016 for Mr S, but concluded it wouldnt be in his best interest 
as no further contributions would be allowed. It also said that his funds hadnt reached 
£1 million and based on the information it had at the time, Mr S wasnt at risk of exceeding 
the LTA at that point and it may well be higher when he retired in 10-15 years. I remain of 
the view that FPCs conclusion wasnt unreasonable under the circumstances. 
In conclusion, although I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs S, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman