DRN-4023678
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) appointed Law of Property Act 
Receivers (LPARs) on two of his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage accounts.
Mr A says the level of missed payments didnt justify BOIs actions, which have caused him 
financial loss, distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr A being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr A had three BTL mortgages with BOI. Mr As complaint is about the BTL mortgages on 
two properties I will call P1 and P2. 
In September 2019 BOI appointed LPARs for P1. In November 2021 BOI appointed LPARs 
for P2. This was because of arrears on the accounts, and what BOI considered to be a lack 
of co-operation from Mr A in providing information the bank required about his financial 
circumstances.
Mr A complained to BOI about this. He said the level of arrears was low compared with the 
property values. Mr A is also unhappy that BOI refused to accept Mr As offer to repay the 
mortgage on P1 before the property was sold.
BOI didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to our service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened and explained to Mr A that we couldnt look at the actions of the LPARs, 
as theyre not covered under our rules.
As far as BOIs decision to appoint LPARs was concerned, the investigator was satisfied BOI 
had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the mortgages. The investigator 
thought BOIs actions were reasonable, considering the conduct of the account. The 
investigator didnt think that Mr A had made a firm proposal to pay off the mortgage on P1; 
BOI had told him what would be needed to do this, but Mr A didnt provide the required 
information. As a result, the investigator didnt think Mr A had made a firm proposal to pay off 
the mortgage.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. He didnt think the 
investigator had taken everything into consideration. Mr A also said that BOI had got away 
with twisting evidence and had broken the law. Mr A said he would like an ombudsman to 
help me in this case not an investigating officer who had not clearly all the necessary 
evidences.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,200 pages of documents. Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with 
what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I 
consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although 
presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no 
impact on the broader outcome.
I cant look at the actions of the LPARs because they arent covered by our rules. But I can 
look at whether BOIs decision to appoint LPARs and to proceed with a sale of P1 was 
reasonable.
Mr A doesnt dispute that the mortgage terms and conditions allow BOI to appoint LPARs 
where the account is in arrears. Rather, Mr A thinks BOI shouldnt have appointed LPARs 
when it did, given that the arrears were so small relative to the value of the properties.
Having reviewed the account histories, Im satisfied that from July 2016 the accounts have 
almost always been in arrears. I note that in 2017 Mr A explained that the rent on all three of 
his BTLs were paid on time, but that he was using the rent to supplement his own income, 
which was seasonal, rather than paying the mortgage. I also note that, although Mr A was 
granted forbearance due to the pandemic, following that there was a lack of engagement 
from Mr A in communicating with BOI.
I will not set out all the details, in order to preserve Mr As anonymity. But Im satisfied that 
the conduct of the accounts was not satisfactory, both in terms of Mr A paying off the arrears 
and in relation to his lack of engagement with BOI  particularly in relation to providing 
information about his financial circumstances. It was reasonable for BOI to have this 
information, because otherwise it wouldnt be able to give proper consideration to any 
proposals Mr A might have to manage his accounts.
Mr A claimed to have been in the process of arranging a bridging loan (in his wifes name) to 
redeem his BOI mortgages, but I note that, although BOI requested a copy of the offer, this 
wasnt provided. In the circumstances, Im satisfied it was reasonable for BOI to proceed 
with the sale of P1.
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied BOI acted reasonably, 
both in relation to its appointment of LPARs and in selling P1. I appreciate this isnt the 
outcome Mr A was hoping for. Hes referred to BOI having broken the law. However, only a 
court can determine whether BOI has broken any laws; its outside the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to decide this. If Mr A decides not to accept my decision, he will be free 
to pursue his grievances against BOI in court, should he wish to do so. Mr A might want to 
take advice from his solicitors before embarking on any legal action against the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman