DRN-3234587
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was unable to engage in the dispute process, and provide a defence, 
when several buyers of products he was selling requested refunds from PayPal (Europe) 
Sarl et Cie SCA.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been outlined by the 
investigator, so I won't repeat them again here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr P but having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In separate transactions Mr P sold items to five different buyers in or around 
November 2020. The products were pre-ordered with an agreed shipping timeframe 
of February 2021. The buyers claim they did not receive the products within the 
timeframe and raised disputes with PayPal for a refund, and in one case a partial 
refund, for Item Not Received (INR). PayPal has provided details of these 
transactions and disputes. Im satisfied the transactions were subject to PayPals 
terms and conditions. And Mr P accepts that these disputes were brought.  
In its User Agreement PayPal stipulates  
The Seller Protection requirements. It says:
Basic requirements
To be eligible for PayPal Seller Protection all of the following basic 
requirements must be met as well as any applicable additional requirements:
oYou must respond to PayPal's requests for documentation and other 
information in a timely manner as requested in our email correspondence 
with you or in our correspondence with you through the Resolution 
Centre. 
oIf the sale involves pre-ordered or made-to-order goods, you must ship 
within the timeframe you specified in the listing
oProvide proof of shipment or delivery
Item Not Received additional requirements include:
oYou must provide proof of delivery as described...
The Buyer Protection requirements. It says:
oPayPal Buyer Protection may apply when you encounter these specific 
problems with a transaction You didn't receive your item from a seller 
(referred to as an Item Not Received claim)
oOpen a dispute in the Resolution Centre within 180 days of the date you 
sent the payment, then follow our online dispute resolution process
Setting aside any mitigating factors for a moment, Mr P has acknowledged that, for 
whatever reason, he hadnt shipped the products to the buyers. Ive looked at the 
dates of the transactions and when the disputes were brought, along with PayPals 
User Agreement and Im satisfied the disputes were raised before the Buyer 
Protection timeframe expired. Im satisfied that by his own admission the products 
werent shipped to the buyers, so Mr P was unable to provide proof of shipment or 
delivery. So, Im persuaded the buyers had the right to request a refund and PayPal 
was obliged to consider the case and where appropriate carry out the refund.  
Mr P closed the PayPal account hed had since 2014 on 18 February 2021, at his 
own request, and opened a new one with the same email address. He said the 
account he closed was a business account. The first dispute was raised on 23 
February 2021, after the business account was closed. 
Mr P has said that where possible he had kept the buyers informed that the product 
would be delayed due to a delay in shipment to himself. I do understand that the 
reason Mr P could not ship the product to the buyers on time was not necessarily 
within his control and Im sure this was frustrating for him. But irrespective of his 
efforts to keep the buyers informed of the delay this doesnt remove the Buyer 
Protection afforded to the buyers within PayPals User Agreement. They were within 
their rights to bring a dispute within the timeframe, and eventually receive a refund for 
INR. 
Mr P has said that because he closed the account, he no longer had access to the 
Resolution Centre in which he could act on the dispute cases. He told this service 
that he had never had the chance to answer the disputes because he couldnt access 
the cases. PayPal confirmed to this service that it was the case Mr P no longer had 
access to the Resolution Centre. But it said Mr P could contact PayPal customer 
service by chat or phone to provide requested information. I can see from a chat 
record provided, that Mr P did contact PayPal in April 2021 concerning two of the 
disputes. Mr P tried to explain to PayPal that the items had been delayed but would 
be arriving in the UK shortly and would be sent out to the customer. Ive also seen 
copies of final emails sent by PayPal requesting action by Mr P.
When Mr P opened his PayPal account he wouldve had to accept PayPals terms 
and conditions. Included in these were protections for both the seller and the buyer. 
PayPal closed Mr Ps account at his own request. Mr P hasnt said why he needed to 
close this account but at the time of the closure in February 2021 he had at least five 
buyers who had paid for goods in or around November 2020 but had yet to receive 
them. And Mr P was aware the goods were delayed. Mr P closed the account during 
the month when the product was scheduled to be shipped to the buyers. Mr P told 
this service hed made the buyers aware he would be closing the account and that he 
could be reached by his personal email account or phone number. While I do 
understand Mr P made efforts to communicate with the buyers about the delay and 
the account closure I think it reasonably foreseeable that one or more of the buyers 
would request a refund when the goods werent dispatched at the scheduled time, and that Mr P would likely have to manage the dispute within his account and with 
the Resolution Centre.  
Mr P is concerned that PayPal has set aside his rights in favour of the buyers. I can 
see from the copy of the emails that PayPal communicated the disputes to Mr P and 
asked for his response in the Resolution Centre. Although Mr P didnt have access, I 
think it reasonable for him to respond through customer services. And I can see he 
did make contact through the chat service. So, Im satisfied PayPal tried to engage 
with Mr P to resolve the disputes. 
Despite Mr Ps attempts to satisfy his buyers they were within their rights to raise a 
dispute with PayPal and seek a refund. There is nothing in the User Agreement 
which allows the seller to bypass the Buyer Protection by communicating shipping 
delays or other communication with the Buyer. Had Mr P been able to access the 
Resolution Centre Im persuaded he still wouldnt have been able to satisfy the INR  
that is, he was unable to send the product during the timeframe he told the buyers he 
would, so he wasnt able to provide the necessary proof of shipping or delivery. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman