DRN-4103902
The complaint
Mr W complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly declined a claim he made on his home insurance policy.
Reference to NFU includes its agents.
What happened
Mr W holds a home insurance policy with NFU. When his fridge freezer stopped working, he 
made a claim to NFU. NFU declined the claim saying the fridge freezer failed due to wear 
and tear, which isnt covered by Mr Ws policy.
Mr W complains about this decision. Hes said the engineer who visited was only at his 
property for a matter of minutes and doesnt think NFU can fairly decline his claim based on 
that visit. Hes said there could have been many reasons for the fridge freezer failing other 
than wear and tear.
NFU didnt change its mind, so, Mr W brought his complaint here.
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought NFU was acting fairly when 
declining Mr Ws claim.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will disappoint Mr W. Ill explain my 
reasoning.
Mr Ws policy doesnt cover him for everything that breaks or stops working. 
Specifically, hes not covered for anything that breaks due to wear and tear. And hes 
also not covered for electronical or mechanical breakdown.
I understand Mr M doesnt think the engineer was at his property long enough to 
make a finding, but NFU have explained why the engineers visit, when viewed with 
the age of the freezer and Mr Ws notification of the loss - that there was no 
significant event he was aware of that caused the fridge freezer to stop working  
meant that the most likely cause of failure of the fridge freezer was wear and tear. 
And Im satisfied thats reasonable.
I understand Mr W thinks this is based on an assumption and thinks there may be 
multiple other reasons for his fridge freezer stopping working. But while there may be 
other reasons, as it stands, NFU havent been presented with any.
Ultimately it is Mr Ws responsibility to show hes suffered a loss covered by the 
policy. Hes shown the item itself is covered, and that its broken. But hes not shown 
anything to counter the engineers opinion that the failure was caused by wear and 
tear.
I understand too that Mr W is unhappy with what he perceives as lies from NFU in 
relation to how long the engineer was there and what time they left. And while I can 
understand this, I ultimately dont think its pivotal to NFUs decision to decline his 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman