DRN-2341364
The complaint
Mr S complains that a payment he made from his Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money credit card on 6 December 2019 didnt debit his account until 23 January 2020. 
What happened
Mr S says he spent £52.20 with a merchant on 6 December 2019 and paid using his Virgin 
Money Mastercard, a credit card facility. But the payment wasnt debited from the credit card 
account right away. 
Mr S has told us that a little while later he was contacted by the merchant who advised the 
payment service provider had experienced some problems that meant the payment he made 
on 6 December hadnt gone through. The payment was processed again and claimed on 23 
January 2020. 
Virgin Money was contacted by Mr S to discuss what had happened. Virgin Money 
confirmed the situation was unusual but that it had processed the payment in line with the 
transaction requests it received from the merchant. Virgin Money wasnt able to explain why 
the payment was delayed. 
Mr S complained but Virgin Money didnt agree it had made any errors or delayed the 
process of authorising his payment. During the complaint calls, Mr S said he thought the 
issue lay with Mastercard rather than Virgin Money. 
The complaint was referred to our service and passed to an investigator. They didnt find that 
Virgin Money had delayed the payment or made a mistake. Mr S asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the available calls and I can hear that Mr S is frustrated that the different 
parties involved in the transaction werent able to explain the delay. In this decision, Im only 
looking at Virgin Moneys actions and whether it delayed the authorisation of Mr S payment. 
Im not going to make a decision about whether the other parties involved delayed the 
payment or not. 
Whilst I can see Mr S wants to know what happened, Virgin Money has confirmed that it paid 
the transaction when the merchant claimed it. And the merchant didnt claim the transaction 
until 23 January 2020, when it appeared on Mr S credit card statement. Its clear that 
something has gone wrong, but I cant hold Virgin Money responsible for the delay unless I 
can find information to the contrary. 
Our investigator has pointed out that no other transactions were delayed in the same way. I 
think that strongly indicates that the credit card was operating correctly throughout this 
period. 
I note Mr S has provided us emails from the Mastercard and the merchant. Mastercard has 
advised that it wasnt experiencing technical problems during the period in question. But I 
note the merchants email dated 10 November 2020 says that, despite what Mastercard has 
said, it did experience technical issues that delayed the payment. I dont know whether the 
statements made by the merchant and Mastercard are correct or not as this complaint 
doesnt relate to them. As Ive said above, I can only look at Virgin Moneys actions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S as I can see he wants to understand what happened. But I 
havent found anything that shows Virgin Money delayed the payment in question or made 
mistakes with Mr Cs credit card. As a result, Im not telling Virgin Money to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman