DRN-3925522
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M took out PPI in 1992 at the same time as arranging the mortgage.
I wrote a provisional decision earlier this month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint and inviting the parties to provide any further evidence or comments 
they may have. Mr M and Mrs M both sent in further submissions that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
As stated in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the sale in 1992 was the only sale. In 
1996 the policy type changed from being called Mortgage Protection Cover to Mortgage 
Payment Protection Insurance, but it was merely a re-branding of the insurance product 
rather than a new sale. Mr M and Mrs M arranged some additional borrowing in 1997 and 
took the opportunity to amend the policy by increasing the level of cover and removing Mrs 
Ms name as she wasnt working at the time. But again, it wasnt a new sale at that time, just 
an amendment to the existing policy.
Mr M and Mrs M dont recall anything about the sale in 1992, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago it took place. Nationwide doesnt have any paperwork from the sale, which is 
also not surprising. However, Nationwide has retained some basic system notes relating to 
the mortgage and PPI. 
The available evidence shows that Mr M and Mrs M chose a three-year fixed rate mortgage 
and that a condition of that particular mortgage product was that PPI had to be taken out at 
the same time. Banks were entitled to place conditions such as this on its mortgages, as 
long as it made it clear that that was the case.
If Mr M and Mrs M hadnt wanted to take out PPI, they could have opted for a different 
mortgage product or gone to a different lender. So it seems to me that they had an interest in 
that particular mortgage deal. As such, even though Mr M had a pre-existing medical 
condition that might have been excluded from cover, I think they would most likely have 
agreed to buy the PPI anyway, even if it didnt entirely meet their needs, in order to have 
access to the discounted mortgage rate.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs M says she cant remember being told theyd be 
unable to take that particular mortgage unless they also bought PPI. She believes that they 
would have asked about other mortgage products if that was the case, because she feels 
that they didnt need PPI due to their decent work benefits. But Im not persuaded that I can 
rely on what Mrs M thinks they would have done at the time to conclude that they werent 
given a choice about taking out the policy. I find it just as likely that they were told about the 
various options and decided to go for the fixed rate mortgage anyway as their preferred deal.
Mr Ms response to my provisional decision is that he was the only wage earner at the time 
and so would have had to go for the cheapest option. But at the point of sale in 1992 both he 
and Mrs M were working and it was later that Mrs M gave up work to have children. 
Hes also said that its been proven that PPI has been mis-sold many times over. I cant 
comment on other cases that Mr M may be referring to. But looking at the available evidence 
relating to this particular case, Im unable to conclude that the policy was mis-sold.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, including the things that it didnt cover. But, as I consider Mr M and Mrs M would have 
decided to buy the PPI anyway to get the mortgage they wanted, they are no worse off as a 
result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong. So theres nothing that Nationwide 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman