DRN-1440150
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about loans granted to him by Elevate Credit International Limited 
trading as Sunny (Sunny or the lender).  Mr W says Sunny didnt suitably assess his loan 
applications. He says he first borrowed from it to help him with living expenses and says 
that, without an increase in his income, it was unlikely that he would have been able to repay 
the loan without difficulty. Mr W says he found himself having to borrow again and was 
unable to get out of debt. 
Mr W has brought his complaint to this Service through a claims management company. For 
simplicity, I will refer to Mr W throughout this decision. 
What happened
Sunny agreed four loans for Mr W from March 2015 to July 2016. The loans were all 
instalment loans to be repaid over six months and ranged in value from £300 to £600. The 
below table sets out some information Sunny has provided about these loans (with numbers 
rounded to the nearest pound). 
Loan Start date End datePrincipal 
(£)Monthly 
repayment 
(£)
1 13/03/2015 28/08/2015 300 90
2 12/09/2015 24/12/2015 350 105
3 08/01/2016 28/06/2016 600 185
4 07/07/2016 28/09/2016 350 110
 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint in part and recommended that Sunny refund all the 
interest and charges he paid on loan 4 because this was the third time Mr W had asked for a 
loan shortly after repaying a previous one, and so he wasnt likely to be repaying his loans 
sustainably.
Sunny disagreed with this recommendation and said that it didnt agree that Mr W could be 
said to be struggling to repay his loans because he seemed to be using them as they were 
intended, in other words to resolve a temporary cash flow problem over a short period. The 
lender also said that taking out several loans one after the next might have been due to
Mr W using the loans to manage several cash flow problems and it pointed out that he had 
repaid his loans early. 
Our adjudicator explained that repeatedly borrowing high cost credit over such a length of 
time as Mr W did was more likely to be because he had an ongoing need for credit and was 
relying on its loans to meet this need. They also explained that repaying a loan earlier than 
contractually obliged doesnt automatically mean a borrowers finances have stabilised. It may be reasonable to assume this early on in a lending relationship but not when it has 
happened several times, as in Mr Ws case. 
Sunny responded to say   we understand 15 months can be viewed as a long period of 
time, but the customer was borrowing and meeting his repayments in line with the rules set 
out in the agreement and generally speaking, the duration was still in line with the nature of 
the [instalment loan] product. Sunny also said that Mr W had only taken out four loans and 
that these were spread over a significant period. 
Sunny requested that the complaint come to an ombudsman to resolve and so it has passed 
to me to review and make a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mr W took out his instalment loans. 
The relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all 
loans Sunny needed to check that Mr W could afford to meet his repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This meant Mr W being able to meet repayments out of his normal 
income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Sunny needed to carry out in order 
to reasonably assess whether Mr W would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. But 
the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Sunny says it asked Mr W for information about his income and expenses each time he 
applied for a loan. The lender recorded Mr Ws monthly income as £1,500 and his monthly 
expenses, which included credit commitments, averaged about £550. Sunny estimated that 
Mr W was left with a minimum monthly amount of around £680 to meet his loan repayments 
throughout the time he borrowed from it.Sunny also said that it used information from third party credit reference agencies to ensure 
the loans were affordable for Mr W and to check his credit history. It hasnt provided the 
results of these checks but it has provided a summary which states that Mr W didnt have 
more than two outstanding loans from other short term providers when he applied for his 
loans.
The summary also states that there were no bankruptcies, debt management plans or recent 
county court judgements recorded on his credit file. The summary does show that around 
the time he applied for loans 2, 3 and 4 Mr W had defaulted on existing credit within the last 
four months. It doesnt, however, show the amount of any existing debt or how much he was 
paying towards this. 
The loan repayments for Mr Ws loans didnt take up such a significant proportion of his 
monthly income that Id consider this alone might render the lending irresponsible. And it 
seems from the information Mr W gave Sunny about his expenses that he had enough 
disposable income to meet the loan repayments each month, while meeting his current 
credit commitments. 
That said, it is debatable for me whether Sunny ought to have looked further into Mr Ws 
circumstances when he asked for a third loan. Hed been in debt to Sunny for almost ten 
months by this point and this was the largest amount hed borrowed so far and his credit fie 
results seemed to show at least one default. 
Mr W hasnt provided his credit file or any bank statements, so I have limited information 
about his financial situation or how he was managing any existing credit commitments. Even 
if I found that Sunny ought to have carried out more comprehensive checks before agreeing 
a third loan for Mr W, I dont have enough information to determine what the lender might 
have found out about his circumstances and whether it would have declined to lend to him. 
Looking at everything in the round, I havent seen enough strong indications in the 
information I do have to suggest that Sunny should have declined Mr Ws first three loans.
However, when Mr W repaid his third loan and took out another one within a couple of 
weeks I think Sunny ought to have realised at that point that Mr W was not managing to 
meet his repayments sustainably. This loan was for £350. Mr W had first borrowed £300 
almost 16 months earlier and it seems to me he hadnt managed to make any inroads into 
his debt in this time. Mr Ws pattern of taking out further loans when he repaid previous loans 
had been demonstrated by that point. This pattern suggests to me that there was a risk that 
Mr W couldnt repay his debt without needing to borrow again, that he wasnt likely to be 
managing to meet his repayments sustainably and it seemed had an ongoing need for 
additional income for which short term borrowing was unsuitable. I think Sunny should have 
recognised this risk and declined to lend to him. 
I have considered what Sunny said in response to our adjudication  that Mr W might have 
been experiencing a series of short term financial problems and that he repaid his loans 
early. This was a possibility. But it could also have been the case that Mr W borrowed a 
fourth time in a row because he had an ongoing need for credit. And while I appreciate that 
early or successful repayment might indicate an improving financial situation, I dont think its 
likely that was the case here where Mr W re-borrowed several times almost as soon as he 
repaid a loan. Altogether, I dont think it was fair of Sunny to agree a fourth loan for
Mr W, given his history.
I think Mr W lost out when Sunny agreed loan 4 because this loan unfairly prolonged his 
indebtedness and allowed him to continue to take expensive credit intended for short term use over a significant period. The length of time he borrowed over was likely to be seen 
negatively by other lenders, potentially keeping him in the market for high cost loans. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I find that Sunny was irresponsible to have agreed Mr Ws fourth 
loan taken out in July 2016. In line with this Services approach to redress in these cases, in 
order to put things right for him, Sunny should:
a. refund all interest and charges Mr W paid this loan; and
b. pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
c. should remove all information about this loan from Mr Ws credit file because any 
information recorded about it is adverse.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr Ws complaint about Elevate Credit 
International Limited trading as Sunny in part and it should put things right for him as Ive 
outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman