DRN-4300020
The complaint
Ms Z complains about delays and poor service after she instructed an international transfer 
from her Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money bank account.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
On 15 November 2021 Ms Z instructed an international transfer of £70,000 from her Virgin 
Money bank account in branch. Ms Z was charged £25 for the service. Virgin Money has told 
us that the transfer request was returned to the branch on 17 November 2021 as it had used 
the wrong swift code. Virgin Money says its Sanctions Team sent Ms Z an email on 24 
November 2021 asking for information about the proposed transfer.
Virgin Moneys told us that it forwarded the transfer for processing on 30 November 2021. 
But Virgin Moneys explained that due to human error the transfer wasnt made until 7 
December 2021 when funds were forwarded to the beneficiary bank abroad.
Virgin Moneys advised the funds were returned by the beneficiary bank on 7 December 
2021. Virgin Money says that due to low resources and staffing levels, the transfer wasnt 
picked up until 13 January 2022 when it was paid back to Ms Zs account.
Ms Z has explained that she went on to complete a transfer with another bank and that her 
funds were paid into the destination account within 48 hours.
Ms Z complained about the delays and service provided, including being told she could 
complete foreign transfers of up to £30,000 via Virgin Moneys app which was wrong. Virgin 
Money issued a final response and apologised for giving incorrect information about making 
international transfers via its app, paying Ms Z £125 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Zs complaint. They thought Virgin Money had 
dealt with Ms Zs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms Z asked to appeal 
and said the bank in the destination country had confirmed the funds were not received or 
subsequently returned to Virgin Money. Ms Z also said shed spent time finding out about the 
correspondent bank used by the receiving bank and tried to trace the missing funds over a 
period of around two months. Ms Z went on to submit evidence to show the communications 
shed had showing attempts to try and locate the missing transfer funds, including
confirmation from the receiving bank that funds were never received from Virgin Money.
As Ms Z asked to appeal, her complaint was passed to me. I recently contacted Virgin 
Money for details of why the transfer was instructed on 15 November 2021 but not 
processed until 7 December 2021. As Ms Z asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Ive looked at the full timeline of Ms Zs transfer attempt in order to see whether it was 
handled reasonably by Virgin Money. Having done so, Im not persuaded that the current 
settlement of £125 paid to date is a fair way to resolve Ms Zs complaint. Ill explain why.
There appear to be several lengthy and unexplained delays with Ms Zs transfer. It was 
initially instructed in branch on 15 November 2021, but Virgin Moneys explained there was a 
mistake. So the transfer instruction was sent back to the branch to correct the mistake. 
Virgin Money also says the transfer was picked up for further checks by its Sanctions Team 
on 24 November 2021 and an email was sent to Ms Z asking for more information. I havent 
been given a copy of the email or confirmation of whether Ms Z responded. But on 30 
November 2021, the transfer was forwarded for processing by Virgin Money. However, 
Virgin Moneys confirmed that due to human error the transfer wasnt actually processed 
until 7 December 2021.
That means that despite Ms Z instructing the transfer on 15 November 2021 and 
subsequently contacting both Virgin Money and the receiving bank for updates, it wasnt 
actually processed and approved for around three weeks. I havent seen anything that 
shows Ms Z was updated about the process of her transfer during this period or that she was 
told the payment wasnt sent until 7 December 2021. Im not persuaded the way Ms Zs 
transfer instruction was handled is reasonable.
Virgin Moneys file shows the payment was actually returned to it on the same day it was 
sent  7 December 2021. Virgin Moneys file says an email had been received from a repair 
team on 7 December 2021 notifying that the funds had been returned by the receiving bank. 
But because of staffing level issues, no action was taken by Virgin Money until 13 January 
2022. That meant £70,000 was held by Virgin Money for around three weeks before it was 
repaid to Mr Zs account. And I havent seen anything that shows Virgin Money told Ms Z her 
funds had been received back during this period. That meant, Ms Z continued to pursue the 
receiving bank and its intermediary for answers when the funds were with Virgin Money. 
Given the amounts involved and fact Ms Z had originally instructed the transfer on 15 
November 2021, I can understand how upset and frustrated she mustve been during the 
period in question.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Ms Zs complaint. Virgin Money paid Ms Z £125 in 
compensation for incorrectly telling her she could complete international transfers of up to 
£30,000 via its app. And Im satisfied thats a fair payment for that issue. But Im not 
persuaded the compensation paid to date fairly recognises the delay in completing the 
transfer, lack of updates to Ms Z or the delay in repaying the funds to her account. 
Ultimately, the funds were missing for a period of around two months and returned to Ms Z. 
As far as I can see, the funds remained with Virgin Money almost entirely during that period 
and I havent seen anything that reasonably explains the various delays Ms Z experienced.Based on the available evidence, I intend to tell Virgin Money to increase the settlement and 
pay Ms Z a further £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way it handled her 
transfer request.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Virgin Money confirmed it was willing to 
accept. 
Ms Z responded and said a property purchase and investments had fallen through as a 
result of the delays in sending her funds abroad. Ms Z added the proposed settlement didnt 
reflect her financial loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response, Ms Z has explained that the funds were intended for investment purposes and 
to purchase a property. But Ive listened to Ms Zs calls with Virgin Money along with the call 
when she referred the complaint to us. Ms Z explained she was transferring funds to her son 
who lives abroad. I havent seen any reference to investments or property purchases until 
Ms Z responded to the provisional decision. 
So I think its reasonable to proceed on the basis Ms Z was sending funds to her son who 
lives in another country, as she has said. I appreciate Ms Zs son may have delayed or had 
to make other plans as a result of the delays experienced. But as a service, we can only 
compensate a customer of the businesses being complained about. We cant award 
compensation for third party losses. And as Im satisfied Ms Z was sending funds to her son 
when she instructed the transfer, I havent found reasonable grounds to award further 
compensation to cover their losses. 
Ive reviewed the file again and remain of the view that an additional £350, taking the total 
award to £475, fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Ms Z. So 
whilst I note Ms Zs comments, I havent been persuaded to increase the award further. I still 
think Ms Zs complaint should be upheld with Virgin Money paying an additional £350 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Zs complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to pay her a further £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman