DRN-2892170
The complaint
Mrs S complains that, following her home insurance claim for water damage, Zurich 
Insurance PLC wont deal with a continuing odour.   
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs S contacted Zurich to make a claim. She advised that she had in the time 
leading up to this, noticed an unpleasant smell in the bathroom, which had suddenly got 
worse when investigating the shower. Zurich advised Mrs S to appoint a plumber to 
investigate the cause of what appeared to be a leak. It also sent out a contractor who 
identified that there was minor water damage to the shower area of the bathroom coming 
from a minor leak in the corner of the shower. It said the rooms beneath, a WC and a 
hallway, werent affected. It recommended restoration of the area in the light of Mrs S being 
affected by the mould growing in there. Mrs Ss plumber inspected and said the shower was 
leaking and affecting the MDF board causing the bad smell.
Zurich appointed a specialist restoration company (C) who visited and carried out readings. 
They said there was a smell of damp in the bathroom but couldnt identify any smell in the 
rest of the property. They said the bathroom should dry out naturally. Zurich then appointed 
a different restoration company to carry out work to the shower which was completed around 
the end of October 2018. Zurich agreed to pay out for some contents and paid for alternative 
accommodation (AA) for Mrs S and her daughter before and during the repairs up until early 
December 2018. After this it said it wouldnt pay for any further such accommodation, as it 
said the property was habitable.
Mrs S said that the bad smell continued and she couldnt live in the property because of the 
effect on her and her daughters health. But Zurich said it could help no further. The shower 
area had been cleaned and repaired and its contractors said there was no further smell. Mrs 
S instructed another restoration/cleaning specialist (R) to review the situation. That company 
said there was an acidic smell in the property but found the bathroom to be dry and could 
detect no obvious source of the smell. It recommended that there be for an air quality 
assessment carried out and for the installation of either hepa type air scrubbers or portable 
ozone generators to complete a controlled change of air. Chemical fogging was discounted 
because of Mrs Ss health.
Mrs S referred Rs report to Zurich  it confirmed it wouldnt be taking any further action. Mrs 
S then had a report carried out by Building Research Establishment Ltd (BRE) on the air 
quality. It reported in September 2019. It said from the results of the sampling, none of the 
parameters (for the presence of various chemicals) studied exceeded guideline values or 
limits. 
On referral to this service our investigator said that so far as the claim and the follow up was 
concerned, Zurich acted reasonably. None of the experts reports could link the smell to the 
original escape of water claim. And the original source of the smell had long since been 
removed. He did say however that Zurich had led Mrs S to believe it was going to deal with 
the source of the smell, and pay out for the rest of the contents she said were affected. As it 
didnt make clear what its liability for this was at an early stage, he said it should pay 
compensation of £200.
Mrs S didnt agree and said the amount she had spent in pursuing her complaint with Zurich 
was far more than the compensation proposed. She provided a further report from another 
cleaning company (G) who visited the property in early July 2021. He recognised there was 
a smell in the property of mustiness and damp, especially in the bathroom area. He 
suggested removing any of the contents affected and having any building materials sealed to 
prevent ongoing health issues. Mrs S has suggested that the whole area should have the 
plaster removed and then be replastered. She has also provided an update from BRE, but 
this doesnt take the matter any further so far as deciding what the source of the odour is
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying I have read all of Mrs Ss evidence, statements, documents and 
photos. I wont refer to them all in this decision but I have taken them into account.
continuing smell
Mrs S says there is a continuing smell in the property which has badly affected her and her 
daughters health. She cant continue to live there and has been staying with friends or in 
hotels. I think its likely there is a smell, although the various experts who have visited the 
property have said it appears to have had a particularly bad effect on Mrs S and her 
daughter. I have to decide whether Zurich is liable to carry out investigations and repair the 
source of the smell. For it to be required to do this, the smell would need to be linked to the 
original escape of water claim, or some other cover in the policy. A bad smell in itself isnt 
covered. Various experts have visited the property and came to the following conclusions:
C (Zurichs expert) visited twice before the repairs were carried out. They could detect no 
smell, apart from in the shower room where there was a smell of damp and mould. They 
recommended restoring the shower area (which was done) but said the property would 
dry out naturally.  
R (Mrs Ss expert) confirmed there was an acidic smell, but could detect no elevated 
moisture readings. It couldnt say where the smell emanated from.
BRE  carried out air quality tests in September 2019 but said none of the parameters 
for various chemicals/compounds were exceeded. In a later letter to Mrs S it said it 
wasnt able to say where the odour came from. 
G attended in July 2021. They said on entering the property that their main experience of 
any odour was of perceived nastiness and of mustiness with perhaps a slight element 
of damp. In the bathroom there was a more pronounced smell of something that could be 
chemical related.  
I think the information in those reports is reliable. Whilst Mrs S has objected to Cs reports in 
particular their not being able to detect any smell outside of the bathroom and the photos 
they took of her cleaning/washing items, it has produced detailed moisture readings. And Rs 
report appears to me to back up Cs conclusions that the property would dry naturally.I dont doubt that there is still a smell in the property. Though I would observe that if the 
property remains unoccupied for long periods there would inevitably be a musty smell. And I 
can accept that the smell, whilst on the whole not bothering the experts does affect Mrs S 
and her daughters health. But the question I have to decide is whether it is likely that the 
smell is related to the original escape of water. Mrs S says the smell became very bad very 
quickly in early July 2018 when investigating the shower area. But the likely cause of it at 
that stage, rotting MDF boards, was removed and the area refurbished by the end of 
October 2018. And the moisture readings after that appear to bear out that the area dried 
out. Finding the source of damp or the sort of smell described here can be very difficult and 
costly, sometimes with no real result. Whilst I appreciate that Mrs S thinks that the present 
smell can be traced back to the escape of water I dont t think the experts reports bear that 
out. And if I cant say that the source of the smell is likely to be the shower area, then I cant 
tell Zurich to repair it. Ultimately I have to abide by the principle that it is up to the 
policyholder to show they have a likely claim under the policy, and Im afraid that I cant say 
that Mrs S has shown that.
alternative accommodation
Mrs S says that the fact that Zurich paid for her alternative accommodation (AA) from July 
and up until December 2018 shows it accepted responsibility for resolving the smell. I dont 
think thats the case. Whist it was fair to continue to pay for AA whilst it considered its 
position I think it was reasonable for it to decide it wasnt going to fund any further 
investigations.
dealing with the claim 
Mrs S says Zurich agreed to pay for cleaning/restoration of items affected by the smell, but 
this was put on hold because she didnt like the chemicals it would be using, It also 
suggested chemical fogging but this wasnt suitable for Mrs Ss health. Then it backtracked 
on these. I think Zurich should have made clear that it was investigating rather than 
accepting liability. But having established that it wasnt going to accept liability for the smell, I 
think it was fair to decline to make any further payments under the claim. I think Mrs S was 
caused some difficulty in this respect and I think a payment of £200 compensation is 
reasonable. I appreciate that Mrs S has incurred a lot more than that in investigating this 
matter, but unfortunately I cant hold Zurich liable for that.
Putting things right
Zurich should pay Mrs S £200 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay compensation in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman