DRN-3964765
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, wont refund to her the money that she paid for some holiday club membership 
points. Shes being represented in her complaint by a legal adviser.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month in which I described what 
happened as follows:
Mrs H and a Mr C signed a purchase agreement in August 2015 to buy 10,000 
holiday club membership points. The purchase price was £4,550 and Mrs H also 
entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance for a loan of 
that amount. She agreed to make 120 monthly payments of £62.12 to Barclays 
Partner Finance.
Mrs H wrote to Barclays Partner Finance in September 2020 and said that it 
appeared that the credit intermediary wasnt permitted or authorised to arrange loans 
and she asked it to explain its position. Barclays Partner Finance didnt provide a 
substantive response to Mrs H so she complained to this service. Her representative 
wrote to this service in March 2021 and said, in summary and amongst other things, 
that the membership was misrepresented to Mrs H, there was an unfair relationship 
between Mrs H and Barclays Partner Finance, there was no evidence that a credit 
check was conducted before the loan was granted and the high interest rate was an 
indication of an unfair relationship.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She 
said that little had been said to support the allegation that the credit intermediary 
wasnt authorised to arrange the loan and she didnt think that it was a reason to 
uphold the complaint. She also said that it didnt appear that Mrs Hs representatives 
letter had been sent to Barclays Partner Finance or that those claims had been made 
to it so she said that she was unable to consider those claims as part of this 
complaint.
Mrs Hs representative, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman. It says, in summary, that our investigator has made an 
incomplete assessment of Mrs Hs complaint and her recommendations arent based 
on the facts cited in the complaint. It also says that, even if the broker is authorised, it 
is unjustifiable that Barclays Partner Finance is released from its obligations as the 
agreement has imposed a contractual obligation to pay annual fees.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
Mrs H first raised her concerns about the authorisation of the credit intermediary with 
Barclays Partner Finance in September 2020. I dont consider that her letter would 
properly be considered to be a complaint and Barclays Partner Finance didnt provide 
a substantive response to her. The credit intermediary was clearly identified in the 
loan agreement and Mrs H hasnt provide any evidence to support her claim that it 
wasnt authorised to arrange the loan in August 2015. This services records show 
that the credit intermediary was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
August 2015 so I consider that its reasonable to conclude that the credit intermediary 
had the required authorisation and that the loan agreement is likely to be 
enforceable.
The claims of misrepresentation and an unfair relationship that were made by Mrs 
Hs representative are legal claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Those claims dont constitute a complaint that this service can 
consider  this service can consider a complaint about Barclays Partner Finances 
response to the claims but those claims must first have been made to it. Mrs Hs 
representatives March 2021 letter has been provided to Barclays Partner Finance by 
this service  and in July 2022 it said that its investigations were continuing and it 
was unable to provide its decision. Ive seen no evidence to show that Barclays 
Partner Finance has objected to this service considering Mrs Hs complaint and, in 
the circumstances of her complaint, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for 
me to make a decision on the merits of her complaint.
Barclays Partner Finances records show that Mrs H complained to it in September 
2015 because shed had to buy more timeshare points to get out of her existing 
timeshare as she no longer wanted it. Those records show that Barclays Partner 
Finance issued a final response to that complaint in September 2015. Ive not been 
provided with all of the documents that would have been signed by Mrs H in August 
2015. Ive been provided with the purchase agreement (but not the schedules to it or 
the terms and conditions), a letter from the holiday company and the loan agreement.
The purchase agreement shows that Mrs H and Mr C had previously purchased 
56,500 membership points from the holiday company and that they were buying 
10,000 more. Mrs H said that she had to buy the 10,000 points to be able to get out 
of the liabilities arising from the ownership of the 56,500 points. The letter from the 
holiday company  which was signed by Mrs H and Mr C to show their acceptance of 
it - said that Mrs H and Mr C would be able to surrender all of their membership 
points five years later at no further cost.
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mrs Hs complaint to Barclays Partner Finance in 
September 2015 included a complaint that the membership was misrepresented to 
her, that her relationship with Barclays Partner Finance was unfair, that it hadnt 
conducted a credit check or about the high interest rate. And when she wrote to 
Barclays Partner Finance in September 2020, about five years later, she raised 
concerns about the authorisation of the credit intermediary and didnt refer to the 
membership being misrepresented to her, her relationship with Barclays Partner 
Finance being unfair, its credit checks or the high interest rate.
Those issues were only raised when her representative wrote to this service in March 
2021. As shes being represented by a legal firm, I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect her representative to have complied with the requirements of 
the complaints process and to have first made Mrs Hs claims under sections 75 and 
140A to Barclays Partner Finance, and then  if Mrs H wasnt satisfied with its 
response - to have complained to this service about its response.
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section 
are met) and section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it 
determines that theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor. Im 
not determining the outcome of any claims that Mrs H would have been able to make 
under those sections in this decision as only a court would be able to do that, but Im 
considering whether or not Barclays Partner Finances responses to any such claims 
would have been fair and reasonable.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mrs H was induced into 
entering into the purchase agreement to buy the 10,000 points by misrepresentations 
made by the holiday company or that theres been a breach of contract by the holiday 
company. So I dont consider it to be likely that any claim that she would have been 
able to make under section 75 would be upheld.
Mrs H accepted the loan and the loan agreement clearly set out the annual rate of 
interest (and the APR) and Im not persuaded that the interest rate payable for the 
loan shows that Mrs Hs relationship with Barclays Partner Finance was unfair. Ive 
seen no evidence to show that Mrs H asked Barclays Partner Finance for any 
information about its credit checks before March 2021 and Ive seen no evidence to 
show that a loan with monthly repayments of £62.12 wasnt affordable for her when it 
was made to her. 
Nor have I seen enough evidence to show that Mrs H was unduly pressured into 
entering into the purchase agreement or the loan agreement in August 2015 or that 
the holiday company used unacceptable commercial practices against her. Im not 
persuaded that any claim that Mrs H would be able to make under section 140A that 
her relationship with Barclays Partner Finance was unfair would be upheld and I dont 
consider it to be likely that a court would conclude that the relationship was unfair.
I sympathise with Mrs H for the issues that shes had with her membership points, 
but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Barclays Partner Finance to refund to her any of the money that shes paid 
under the loan agreement, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
Neither Mrs H nor her representative has responded to my provisional decision and Barclays 
Partner Finance says that it has no further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further comments or evidence in response to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman