DRN-2832445
The complaint
Mr N complains that TSB Bank plc reduced the interest rates on his accounts without telling 
him.
What happened
Mr N says he had five TSB accounts all of which had the interest rate reduced. He says he 
was unaware of this and that TSB didnt tell him. Mr N says he suffered a loss of interest as 
he could have moved the accounts if he had been told about the interest rate reduction from 
1.5% to 0%. He would like TSB to compensate him for the loss of interest and pay for his call 
costs to it. Mr N says he would have expected five letters for each of his accounts which he 
didnt receive and says he was told by TSB staff when he called it that it hadnt sent him 
notice of the interest rate reduction.
TSB says it e-mailed Mr N on 23 September 2020 to tell him it was reducing the interest rate 
which it says its entitled to do. It says Mr Ns correspondence preference was set for 
paperless communication. And says in any event Mr N contacted it about the interest rate 
reduction on 3 December 2020 which was one day after it came into force.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought TSB had provided evidence that it did e-mail Mr N on 23 September telling him the 
interest rate was reducing. She thought TSB was entitled to reduce the interest rate and 
didnt think whatever was said on the telephone call made any real difference to this 
complaint.
Mr N doesnt accept that view and in summary says he would like the evidence of the e-mail 
and questions why he wasnt sent five e-mails for each account. He says he may have had 
internet problems at the time, but his provider has told him it has no record of the e-mail. Mr 
N says the call between him, and TSB is important and says he was told TSB hadnt told him 
about the reduction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr N will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about 
what took place.
Im satisfied that TSB is entitled to reduce the interest rate on its accounts. I dont think that 
is an issue in this complaint but make it clear to the parties.
I have looked carefully at TSBs records and am satisfied Mr Ns correspondence preference 
was set to paperless communication. I think it likely Mr N was aware of that as I can see that 
he had the accounts for some time. So, I dont think TSB made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by e-mailing, rather than sending a letter by post, the letter about the interest rate reduction. 
Im also satisfied that TSB sent the e-mail and I can see from its records that its marked as 
delivered. I appreciate Mr N says he didnt receive it, but Im satisfied it was sent and is 
marked as delivered. I accept Mr N will have unanswered questions about why he didnt 
receive it but that is not something I can fairly hold TSB responsible for. And I have made 
clear that I have seen evidence the letter was sent but have not seen any evidence from Mr 
Ns internet provider about this issue or what his internet problems were at the time.
I appreciate Mr N says he ought to have received a letter for each of his accounts. I think its 
up to TSB to decide, when exercising its commercial judgement, what its position is on such 
matters. And I think its entitled to reasonably conclude there would be little point in 
duplicating such letters and or e-mails. So, it follows that I dont think TSB acted unfairly or 
made a mistake by only sending one e-mail. I think it likely that even if five e-mails were 
sent, then there would have been no guarantee that Mr N would have received them, if he 
didnt receive one.
I dont think it matters what Mr N may have been told by TSB staff when he called it. Im 
satisfied the important key issue is that TSB has provided evidence, which Mr N now has, 
that the e-mail about the interest rate reduction was sent. I dont need to listen to that call 
and dont think it has any real significance or relevance.
Overall, I dont think TSB has made a mistake or acted unfairly by reducing the interest rate 
on Mr Ns accounts. I have made clear why I think TSB told Mr N about the reduction and 
why I dont think it needed to send five e-mails. In any event I can see the interest rate 
reduction took place on 2 December 2020 and Mr N was aware of the change on 3 
December 2020. And so, I dont think there was any significant impact on Mr N and can see 
he closed his TSB accounts very shortly after the interest rate was changed. I also think it 
was Mr Ns choice to call TSB and I cant fairly order it to refund any call costs in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman