DRN-4366360
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complain that Revolut Ltd wont refund it for the money 
lost when its director, Mr K  who brings this complaint on Cs behalf  fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But, in summary, I understand it to be as follows.
In around July 2022, Mr K met somebody through an online dating application. After 
exchanging some messages the person invited Mr K to join a group on a social media 
messaging platform, which had the purpose to exchange investment news and make profits 
through trading.
Believing everything to be genuine, between 16 September 2022 and 10 October 2022,     
Mr K made several transactions, totalling over £200,000, from a business banking account C 
held with another banking provider, to the business account C held with Revolut. From here, 
Mr K made multiple card payments into a cryptocurrency wallet which he held in his own 
name. Mr K then moved the money, from his crypto wallet, on to what he believed were 
legitimate investment accounts. But unknown to him at the time, Mr K had been 
communicating with fraudsters and had sent the money to accounts the fraudsters 
controlled.
Mr K also made a payment from Cs Revolut account to a personal account Mr K held with 
Revolut, from where he sent a faster payment to the fraudsters. But this payment doesnt 
form part of this complaint.
Mr K has said he realised hed been scammed when he was attempting to make a trade and 
his funds literally disappeared, giving the impression of a total and sudden loss. Mr K raised 
the matter with Revolut, but it didnt uphold Cs complaint as it didnt consider it had made 
any errors, that the payment orders were fairly executed and that the Chargeback process 
had been properly and fairly followed.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, she said as Mr K had indicated the investments were for personal gain, it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to ask Revolut to refund the money to C, as she didnt consider it 
could be said that Cs money had been lost.
Mr K didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary he said his decisions directly 
affect the company and these investments were made to increase shareholders equity. He 
added that accounts filed in July 2023, show C made a loss. As well as this, Mr K maintained 
that Revolut had breached its duty of care.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed over to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been  
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on  
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt  
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual  
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to  
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im aware in his submissions Mr K has referred to other decisions issued by our service. But 
I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each 
complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive 
looked at the individual circumstances of Cs complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision is in relation to the payments that left Cs business 
account. In these circumstances, C is the eligible complainant. As the director, Mr K can 
represent C, but personally he is considered a separate legal entity, distinct from C.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Revolut is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. While its not in dispute that Mr K was 
scammed, he did authorise the payments from Cs account. So the starting position is that C 
is liable for them. However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take 
additional steps before processing a payment. Such as when the payment is significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic when compared to the normal use of the account.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr K has told us. Based on everything Ive seen, Im 
persuaded that its more likely than not that the money being paid from Cs account was for a 
personal investment being made by Mr K. I say this because Im not persuaded Mr K has 
provided evidence that fairly and reasonably demonstrates that the investments were being 
made by C in its own capacity.
Our Investigator, when reviewing this case asked Mr K if the payments were for personal 
gain or for the business. I think what our Investigator asked was unambiguous and Mr K told 
our Investigator that these investments were made for personal gain. It was only later on, 
after the complaint had not been upheld, that Mr K said the payments related to investments 
on behalf of C. Mr K said accounts filed in July 2023 show C had made a loss, but these 
conversations with Cs accountant have taken place some months after the payments had 
been made. Ive not seen any evidence to show that conversations took place, at the time 
the payments were made, with his company accountant showing the funds were being used 
to raise capital for business purposes.
Im mindful that Mr K has said that all of his personal savings were held in the company. But 
a limited companys assets belong to the company itself, not the owner or the shareholder. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that, on balance, the spending on Cs account was for 
the purposes of Mr Ks own personal gain, rather than for any business-related activity. Ive 
not seen enough to satisfy me about this change in explanation, nor about how the 
payments were connected to C. Id only consider it fair to award C for losses incurred directly due to any errors by Revolut. Whereas if Mr K was investing personally, it is his loss. While 
C may be out of pocket because of Mr Ks loss, that is not a direct loss.
Having been satisfied of the above, broadly speaking there are two potential scenarios in  
relation to the debt created by the spending on Cs account. Firstly, that this was, in effect,  
C lending money to Mr K personally. If Mr K had borrowed money in this way from C for  
personal gain, then he would be liable to repay that debt to the company. And in this  
situation C cant fairly be considered to have suffered a loss, as it is still owed the money by  
Mr K as the debtor in these circumstances.
The second potential scenario is that by spending on Cs account in this way, C was  
discharging some debt owed to Mr K. Be that a dividend payment, wages or similar. But in  
this situation, again, C hasnt suffered a loss. The debt has been discharged and Mr K was  
provided with what he was owed (which he then paid to the fraudulent companies).
As these payments were made by debit card, Ive considered whether the Chargeback 
process was an option for C. A Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card providers. It 
arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able to 
resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme 
and there are only limited grounds on which a Chargeback can be raised. Chargebacks 
raised outside of these grounds are deemed invalid.
Such claims can only be made against the merchant paid directly. Here, the underlying 
dispute isnt with the merchant paid, as it loaded the funds to the cryptocurrency wallet in line 
with the requests received, and therefore provided the expected service. The loss was only 
incurred due to the onward transfer from their platform. And so, in the circumstances, 
Revolut couldnt have done more to recover the funds lost.
Im mindful that Mr K has made detailed representations to say that he feels Revolut has 
failed in its duty. As Ive mentioned above, Revolut are expected to be on the lookout and to 
be alert to the possibility of  fraud and scams, in order to protect its customers. But setting all 
of that aside, I dont think the fair and reasonable outcome here is to tell Revolut it needs to 
do more. Whichever approach I take to the spending on Cs account, Im not persuaded that 
C itself has suffered a loss. So even if I were to conclude that there had been a clear and 
obvious failing by Revolut in its handling of matters, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me 
to ask it to do more. This is because any failures that might have occurred didnt cause a 
loss to C. As such, Im not directing Revolut to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
I do understand the impact this scam has had on Mr K and I dont underestimate his strength 
of feeling and why he is looking to recoup the loss. Its clear he was tricked by a cruel and 
sophisticated scam, and Im very sorry to hear how difficult that has been. That said, my role 
here is to assess Revoluts liability. Having done so, I dont consider it fair to direct Revolut 
to reimburse C for what has happened.
Finally, in his submissions Mr K has mentioned engaging with his lawyers regarding this 
matter. Mr K doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt it wont be binding on 
him. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ks right to 
pursue a legal remedy wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman