DRN-3292020
The complaint
Miss B complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) didnt carry out a review of her personal 
pension as part of the Pension Review completed in 2000 in accordance with the regulatory 
requirements. The review concluded that Miss B didnt suffer a financial loss. But she 
believes that Zurich failed in two specific areas of the review. She said:
1. Assumptions of zero were used in the calculation for the fund management charge 
and the policy fee. She felt this had resulted in the value of her personal pension 
being overstated.
2. An assumption of zero had been used for GMP revaluation.
Miss B took out her personal pension with a business which now forms part of Zurich. As 
such, the complaint is with Zurich. And Ill only refer to it in my decision.
Miss B is represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company. But Ill only refer 
to her in my decision.
Zurich has given this service consent to consider this complaint under the 6/3 year rule.
What happened
Miss B had a personal pension with Zurich which I understand started in 1989. At that time, I 
understand it was set up to receive regular personal contributions, which started at £24 each 
month.
I understand that in 1992, on Zurichs advice, Miss B transferred out of the Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) shed been a member of until 1987. And into a Zurich personal 
pension plan. At that time, she had approximately 14 years service in the OPS. 
Miss B said that Zurich told her that if she transferred her OPS into a personal pension shed 
get a larger pension income in retirement. 
At the time of the transfer, I understand that Miss B was 44 years old. She said she had little 
experience or knowledge of pensions or investments. 
Miss B said she now receives around £4,300 a year from a non-increasing annuity she 
bought with her pension pot. 
In 2000, Zurich wrote to Miss B with the results of the Pensions Review it had carried out as 
required by the regulator at that time. It said that its review had assessed whether Miss B 
had been financially disadvantaged because shed transferred the benefits from her OPS to 
her personal pension with them. It said that in order to determine this, it had compared the 
value of her personal pension plan with the capitalised value of the expected benefits from 
her OPS, if shed not transferred those benefits. Zurich said that its assessment had shown 
that Miss B hadnt suffered a financial loss due to the transfer.
Zurichs also said that its assessment had been carried out using assumptions where certain 
information it needed wasnt available. It said itd had to make certain assumptions in Miss 
Bs case. And detailed what those assumptions were. 
In July 2021 Miss B complained to Zurich about the Pension Review calculations. She said 
that shed only recently become aware that there was a cause for concern about the advice 
shed been given in 1992. 
Miss B said she was concerned about the advice shed received to transfer her OPS to a 
personal pension with Zurich. She said the risks associated with the transfer werent 
explained to her. Miss B said that while she was aware that this advice had been reviewed in 
2000, she felt that the loss assessment calculation had been carried out incorrectly.
Miss B said she wanted Zurich to provide redress in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authority's guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit 
transfers. 
Zurich issued its final response to the complaint on 24 August 2021. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said that Miss Bs pension transfer had been fairly reviewed as part of the 
industry-wide Pensions Review. And that its loss assessment had found that she hadnt 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the transfer from her OPS. 
Zurich acknowledged that Miss B didnt think the loss assessment had been carried out 
correctly, as she felt that the fund management charge and policy fee assumptions had been 
incorrectly set to zero. And that she was also concerned that the GMP revaluation 
assumption was also zero. It said its actuary had reviewed the calculation in light of Miss Bs 
comments.
Zurich said that it could confirm that the assumptions of zero for the fund management 
charge was correct. This was because the transfer didnt attract any charges, so none 
needed to be included within the calculation. It also said that it had been correct to use an 
assumption of zero for the policy fee. 
Zurich also said that it had been correct to use an assumption of zero for the GMP 
revaluation. It said this was because all Miss Bs GMP was pre-88. It said it had correctly 
revalued Miss Bs pre-88 GMP from £819 each year at the date of leaving to £2,350.66 at 
the anticipated pension age. But that there was no increase to the £2,350.66 given it was 
pre-88 GMP and Miss B was a female.
Unhappy, Miss B brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He felt that Zurich had carried out the Pension Review in line 
with the regulators guidance at the time.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigator, although she provided no new information.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I consider that Zurich has shown that it carried 
out the Pension Review in accordance with the regulatory requirements. I know this will be 
disappointing for Miss B. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.As our investigator noted, in 1994 the regulator at the time established an industry-wide 
review of some pension sales following concerns that people had been badly advised to 
leave or not join their employers pension scheme. This was generally known as the 
Pensions Review.
The regulator set up guidelines it required firms to follow when carrying out that review. The 
process was highly monitored at the time. The review itself was intended to be a one-off 
exercise to put things right where necessary.
Ive been provided with a copy of the outcome letter that Zurich sent to Miss B after it had 
carried out a review of the sale of her personal pension plan. This showed that Zurich did 
carry out a review under the Pensions Review. Zurichs review concluded that Miss B hadnt 
suffered a financial loss due to the transfer. 
As Im satisfied that Miss Bs transfer from her OPS to her personal pension plan has been 
through the Pension Review process, I cant re-visit the advice she was given. This is 
because it has already been reviewed, and a business was only required to carry out the 
review once. However, I can consider the specific concerns Miss B has about whether the 
Pension Review was correctly carried out. 
This service isnt able to check a Pension Review calculation thoroughly in such a way that 
we can guarantee there are no errors in it. Instead, we approach these issues on a fair and 
reasonable basis taking into account the areas of concern that have been raised. But unless 
we agree that the concerns show that the Pension Review was carried out incorrectly, were 
entitled to place some weight on the fact that the calculations were subject to supervision 
and sampling by the regulator at the time, which included going back to correct any systemic 
errors. 
In this case, Miss B considers that the following assumptions used by Zurich in its Pension 
Review calculation  all of which had been set to zero - were incorrect:
The fund management charge;
The policy fee;
The GMP revaluation assumption.
Zurich, in its final response letter, gave an explanation for why the assumptions itd used for 
the Pension Review in each of these areas was in fact correct.
Ive carefully considered its explanations. And I dont have any evidence to suggest that they 
arent correct. Ill explain why.
The fund management charge assumption
Zurich said that the transfer didnt attract any charges, so none needed to be included within 
the calculation.
Ive seen no evidence that the transfer did attract charges, so I cant fairly agree that Zurich 
used an incorrect assumption here.
The policy fee assumption
Zurich said that when Miss Bs personal pension plan started in 1989 the policy fee became 
payable. It said the transfer of Miss Bs OPS was received in March 1992. But that as part of the Pensions Review, it was decided that the policy fee would only be applied to the first 
transaction. And that as the policy fee was already being applied before the transfer had 
been received, doing the loss test on the non-protected rights element of the transfer without 
the fee was appropriate.
Zurich said that its Pension Review calculation had included a fee for the protected rights 
element of the plan. This was because the original set up of the plan hadnt included 
protected rights, but part of the transfer from the OPS did. It said that the regulators 
guidance at the time of the Pension Review said that an allowance had to be made on the 
proportion of the plan which accounted for the protected rights. And that as the transfer from 
the OPS was the first time any protected rights were applied to the plan, it felt it had correctly 
allowed for this. 
Overall, Zurich said it had been appropriate to not apply a policy charge on the non-
protected elements.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the assumption for the policy fee for the non-protected 
rights part of Miss Bs plan shouldve been assumed to be zero. And I also consider that 
Zurich correctly included a fee for the protected rights element of the plan, as the transfer 
from the OPS was the first time any protected right were applied to the plan. Therefore, I 
cant fairly agree that Zurich used an incorrect assumption here.
The GMP revaluation assumption
Zurich said that its assumption of zero for the GMP revaluation was correct, as all Miss Bs 
GMP was pre-88. It said it had correctly revalued Miss Bs pre-88 GMP from £819 each year 
at her date of leaving the OPS to £2,350.66 at her anticipated pension age. But it said that it 
had been right not to further increase the £2,350.66 as it was all pre-88 GMP and Miss B 
was a female.
From what Ive seen, the only GMP in Miss Bs OPS pension was pre-88 GMP. I consider 
that, as such, Zurich correctly revalued that GMP up to her anticipated pension age. Im also 
satisfied that there was no regulatory requirement for Zurich to further increase the pre-88 
GMP after the revaluation in Miss Bs circumstances. 
From what Ive seen, Zurich carried out the Pension Review using the correct assumptions. 
Im satisfied that the Pension Review was carried out in line with the regulators guidelines at 
the time. Therefore I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman