DRN-4484506
The complaint
Mr Y complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
(OFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr Y was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with OFS.
In November 2022 the engine failed, and the car was recovered to the supplying dealer.
Mr Y reported the issue to OFS who arranged an independent inspection of the car. the 
report concluded that the engine had failed due to holing on the cylinder block as a result of 
oil deterioration or hydraulic lock.
OFS upheld Mr Ys complaint. It said it would cover the costs of repairs.
Mr Y raised a further complaint in January 2023. He said not all of the agreed repairs had 
been completed. OFS offered to allow Mr Y to reject the car but he declined. A further 
independent inspection was carried out in January 2023. The report concluded that there 
were issues with the car keys, the reversing camera and the multimedia unit.
Further correspondence passed between Mr Y and OFS in relation to the repairs and Mr Y 
reported concerns that the cars brake horsepower wasnt performing as advertised and that 
the car had lost performance since the repairs were carried out. OFS asked Mr Y to provide 
estimates for repair costs but later said these were excessive and offered to allow Mr Y to 
reject the car, which he declined. As an alternative, OFS offered to pay £1000 towards the 
repairs.
Mr Y remained unhappy and complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I said there was no dispute 
between the parties that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied, and that the 
attempts at repairs appeared to have resulted in a new issue with a loss of power. I said that 
both parties had agreed that rejection was the appropriate remedy and the issue to 
determine was what was a fair and reasonable resolution within the context of a rejection.
I explained that when a car is rejected, Id expect the business to refund the deposit and 
refund all monthly rentals less a deduction for fair usage. I said that because Mr Y had 
covered around 9000 miles in the car, I thought it was fair to make a deduction for fair 
usage. I said that OFS should refund all monthly rentals save for 9 of these to reflect fair 
usage.
I looked at the impact that the issues with the car had on Mr Y and said it was fair to ask 
OFS to pay compensation of £200.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
OFS responded and said it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr Y responded and made the point that the sat nav, the reversing camera and the 
multimedia system in the car have remained non-operational since the point of supply. He 
said hed elected not to reject the car when OFS had previously offered this because of 
concerns about the impact this would have on his work, and his ability to obtain another 
vehicle. Mr Y said it had caused him frustration when the issues with the car werent 
addressed or rectified, and he was disappointed that the matter had taken so long to resolve. 
Mr Y asked me to consider these points when reaching my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board all of the points that Mr Y has made, and Im satisfied that the remedy 
outlined in my provisional decision addresses these. I remain of the view that the fairest way 
to resolve this complaint is for OFS to implement the redress set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr Y
Refund the deposit of £500
Refund all rentals paid by Mr Y except for 9 x rentals which may be retained by Oodle to 
reflect fair usage
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience
Remover any adverse information from Mr Ys credit file in relation to the agrement 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must take 
the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman