DRN-2262043
The complaint
Mrs As complaint is about the refusal of a claim under her Home Buyers Protection 
insurance policy with Great Lakes Insurance SE.
What happened
The policy with Great Lakes provides cover for costs incurred in a potential purchase where 
the transaction fails due to certain specified events. In 2019 Mrs A had an offer accepted on 
a leasehold property she wanted to purchase. The freeholder is apparently the local council. 
After she had a survey done, Mrs A was told that the vendor had removed an internal wall 
without appropriate permission. Mrs A said she would not continue with the purchase without 
retrospective permission for the work. I understand the vendor applied for retrospective 
permission but it was still not received several months later. Mrs A told the vendor and 
agents she would not proceed with the purchase without the permission and made a claim 
under her policy with Great Lakes for the costs she had incurred in relation to the potential 
purchase up to then. 
Great Lakes refused the claim, as it said the purchase hadnt failed due to any of the insured 
events covered under the policy. It says Mrs A withdrew from the sale, which is not covered. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld as he thought Great Lakes had acted in accordance with the policy terms. 
Mrs A does not accept the investigators assessment. She has made a number of points in 
support of her complaint, which Ive summarised below: 
due to not having the planning permission, the vendor was not legally entitled to sell 
the property, which is an insured event under the policy, so the claim
should be covered.
She has not withdrawn from the sale. She is still interested in the property if the 
permission for the wall is obtained. 
Great Lakes declined the claim after talking to the estate agents, who told it she had 
withdrawn from the sale, because they should not have advertised the property for 
sale without the permission from the council. Great Lakes should not have taken the 
estate agents word for this. Great Lakes has not spoken to the solicitors involved, or 
the council. 
The investigator and Great Lakes have focused on the retrospective permissions but 
not the surveyors report which highlighted the problems. There is cover for when the 
surveyor finds rectification work is required. 
She was tricked by Great Lakes into paying her solicitors bill, so it could say that she 
had withdrawn from the sale. 
As the investigator was not able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs As policy says: 
Following an insured event as noted in the policy document, cover is provided for 
conveyancing fees, mortgage arrangement fees/lenders fees and survey/valuation fees that 
you have incurred as part of your purchase of the property.
Like all insurance policies this cover is subject to certain terms and conditions. It does not 
cover every failed purchase but only those that happen as a direct result of certain specified 
insured events. These include: 
Costs and expenses arising from the following events where you are unable or unwilling to
continue with the purchase and lists 11 events which would be covered. The ones relevant 
to this claim are as follows: 
The vendor is not legally entitled to sell the property or to transfer interest in the property to  
you
The RICS Homebuyers Report or RICS Building Survey identifies rectification work
required which exceeds 10% of the accepted offer of purchase.
There are also specific exclusions to this cover, which include claims arising because you 
decide to withdraw from the purchase of the property, unless the reason is covered by an 
insured event.
Mrs A says the vendor was not legally entitled to sell the properly due to the lack of relevant 
permission and so the claim should be covered. I note Mrs As solicitor set out to her in 
correspondence that the purchase could go ahead if Mrs A took out indemnity insurance 
and/or the vendor obtained retrospective permission (or indeed without either, if she was 
prepared to take the risk). The permission was not obtained and Mrs A says the indemnity 
insurance was not a viable option for her in reality because there were too many 
uncertainties. While I can understand why Mrs A was not happy to go ahead on this basis, 
this does not mean the vendor was not legally entitled to sell the property.  
Mrs A also says the purchase fell through due to the surveyors report, which is also 
covered. The surveyor advised that some further checks were required into any works done 
in the property in the preceeding few years; and that where walls have been partially or fully 
removed, the adequacy of support has not been verified.  It is as a result of this survey that 
Mrs A says she found the wall had been removed without permission. Mrs A says this is 
clear evidence that there is rectification work required in the property.
While the surveyors report advises checking this further it doesnt identify it as definitely 
needing rectification or that it would cost more than 10% of the amount agreed to be paid for 
the property. And the fact retrospective permission is required, doesnt establish this either. If 
there is inadequate structural support as a result of the removal of the wall, it might need to 
be reinstated, or some other support installed. So while it is possible that there might be a 
need for rectification works, at present there is no evidence that this is required, or that if it is 
required, it would amount to 10% or more of the agreed purchase price. On the evidence 
available to me, I am also not persuaded therefore that the claim s covered under this 
insured event. 
Mrs A has also said that she didnt withdraw from the purchase and is still interested in the 
property. However, if Mrs A is still interested in the property and wants to go ahead there 
would be no claim under the policy, as the purchase would not have failed. I do not think Great Lakes, or ourselves, needed to speak with either Mrs As solicitors or the 
vendors solicitors or any of the other parties involved, in order to determine whether this 
claim falls within the cover of the policy. It is also irrelevant to the claim against Great Lake 
whether or not the estate agent should have marketed the property for sale without the 
permissions. 
Mrs A is also adamant that Great Lakess request for confirmation she had paid her solicitor 
and a copy of the invoice in order to consider her claim was a trick. They knew once final 
invoice is paid, it will be a quick claim denial from them. There can only be a claim for 
solicitors costs and so Great Lakes was entitled to ask for evidence of costs incurred. The 
invoice referred to costs for the aborted purchase which Greta Lakes and the investigator 
also said supported that she had withdrawn from the sale. Mrs A says it was a trick because 
she is still interested in the property and hasnt withdrawn from the purchase. The invoice 
simply confirms the purchase has not gone ahead but not the reason for that. And again, if 
the purchase is not aborted and in fact still going ahead, there will be no claim under the 
policy in any event. 
I completely understand why Mrs A might not have wanted to go ahead with the purchase 
without the relevant permissions but that does not mean the claim is covered under the 
policy. I am not persuaded that Great Lakess has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
handling of the claim, including asking for confirmation shed paid her solicitors, and it is in 
my opinion entitled to refuse the claim. 
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mrs As position, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman