The complaint
Mr W complains about the settlement hes been offered by Aviva Insurance Limited for the 
costs he incurred in replacing his boiler, after he made a claim on his home emergency 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 19 December 2019, Mr W made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy after 
his boiler failed. An engineer went out to look at Mr Ws boiler. Mr W says the engineer told 
him that new parts were needed to get the repair done. But Aviva later let Mr W know the 
boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). 
Aviva told Mr W it would cover the cost of replacing his boiler with the same type of boiler. It 
said hed need to pay the installation costs. It arranged a survey visit for 24 December, so a 
quote could be drawn up. But it let Mr W know that the boiler installation company wouldnt 
be able to fit a new boiler until at least 27th December.
Mr W was unhappy with the proposed timeframe for getting a new boiler put in. He explained 
that his wife was vulnerable and theyd be without heating and hot water for over a week. He 
asked Aviva if it would cover the costs he incurred if he got the work done privately. Aviva 
told him told him it wouldnt. But Mr W remained unhappy with the proposed delays in getting 
a new boiler fitted. 
So Mr W arranged to get a new boiler fitted by a third party engineer at a cost of £1800 for 
the boiler, plus labour. He sent in the invoice to Aviva so it could reimburse him for the cost 
of the new boiler. And he made a complaint about the service hed received.
Aviva agreed to pay Mr W £463 towards the cost of his new boiler. This was the cost to it of 
buying a new combi boiler. It also acknowledged thered been some errors in its handling of 
the claim  like telling Mr W his boiler was in danger when it was at risk and delays in 
sending him service notes. So it offered Mr W £150 compensation to recognise these errors. 
Mr W remained unhappy with Avivas decision, so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She didnt think thered 
been unreasonable delays in Avivas handling of the claim, given the festive period. Shed 
also noted that Aviva had provided Mr W with two temporary heaters, which while not ideal, 
had been a reasonable attempt to fix the situation. She felt the policy terms made it clear 
that Aviva wouldnt pay the costs of a policyholder or third party getting works done. So she 
thought it was reasonable for Aviva to pay a contribution towards the cost of the new boiler. 
And she was satisfied that the cost to it of replacing Mr Ws boiler with the same type of 
boiler was £463. Overall, she felt its offer was fair.
DRN-1639158Mr W disagreed. He was concerned that the engineer didnt initially think the boiler was BER 
and that Aviva seemed keen to replace the boiler. He said the temporary heaters were small 
and totally unsuitable, plus he and his wife had been left without hot water. Hed been able to 
arrange the replacement of the boiler at short notice, so he expected better service from a 
national breakdown company. He asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Aviva has treated 
Mr W fairly. Ill explain why.
It must have been very stressful when Mr Ws boiler broke down during winter and 
immediately before the start of the festive holidays. I understand his wife is vulnerable and 
so being without immediate access to heating and hot water must have been frustrating and 
very worrying for them. But I have to decide whether I think Aviva responded fairly and 
reasonably to Mr Ws claim. So Ive carefully considered everything that happened.
Mr W let Aviva know there was an issue with a boiler on 19 December 2019. It sent out an 
engineer the next day, which I think was a reasonable timeframe to respond. The engineer 
originally thought the boiler could be repaired, but it was later deemed BER. Id like to 
reassure Mr W having looked at the claims notes, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the boiler 
couldve been repaired or that it wasnt BER. So I havent seen anything to make me think 
the boiler didnt need replacing.
At this point, Aviva arranged for two small heaters to be sent to Mr W, while it arranged for a 
quote for a replacement boiler and the fitting of it. I think it was a fair response and while the 
heaters didnt provide hot water, I do think Aviva tried to make Mr Ws situation as bearable 
as possible. Aviva arranged for this quote to take place on 24 December 2019.
Its unfortunate that the boiler installation company couldnt fit a new boiler until 27 
December. I can understand why this was so frustrating for Mr W, but given the time of year, 
I dont think it was wholly unreasonable. I can also understand why Mr W decided to go 
ahead and get the work done privately. But I can see from Avivas notes that he called Aviva 
and was told these costs wouldnt be covered. This is consistent with the policy terms, which 
say that costs incurred by a policyholder or third party wont be covered. So I think Aviva had 
made Mr W aware that if he went ahead with getting the work done privately, it wouldnt be 
liable for the cost.
However, Mr Ws policy does say that if a boiler is BER, Aviva will  source, replace and 
install a new boiler. This suggests that Aviva will be responsible for finding a replacement 
boiler, with the same heating and hot water requirements of the existing one. So I think it 
was fair for Aviva to agree to pay a contribution towards the cost of Mr Ws new boiler, in line 
with what its own costs wouldve been if itd done the work. Ive seen evidence that Aviva 
wouldve paid £463 for a new combi-boiler, which is what its offered Mr W. 
The policy doesnt cover the installation costs in these circumstances though, which is why 
Aviva hasnt made a contribution towards the labour costs. Mr W accepts these costs simply 
arent covered.
So this means I think Avivas settlement offer is fair and in line with the policy terms. So I 
wont be asking it to pay anything more towards the costs Mr W incurred in replacing his 
boiler.
Its clear Mr W did experience some poor service from Aviva. He was misinformed that his boiler was in danger and he wasnt sent information he asked for in a timely way. So Aviva 
offered him £150 compensation for the issues hed experienced. I think this is fair and 
reasonable compensation and broadly in line with what Id have been likely to award.
Overall, I think Aviva has treated Mr W fairly. So I wont be telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold Mr W's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman