DRN-1498009
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Miss M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
Miss M was sold PPI when she called Capital One to activate her card. Because of all the 
years that have passed, there isnt still a recording of that call. But from what Ive seen of 
Capital Ones sales process from the time, staff were instructed to make it clear the policy 
was optional, and in order to get PPI the customer would need to actively consent to having 
it. Ive not seen any wider problems with these types of sales from the time, nor any 
evidence showing that Capital One significantly departed from its normal process here. So 
I think its most likely that Capital One made it clear Miss M didnt have to take out PPI and 
that she chose to take it  though I can certainly understand if she no longer recalls doing so 
after so long.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. It did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like 
Miss M was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limits. 
And Miss M didnt have any other protection in case she was off sick or lost her job. So the 
policy could have really been useful for Miss M if something went wrong. And it was paid for 
on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think better information about PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell her, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman