DRN-3805350
The complaint
Miss G complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined the trace and 
access claim she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss G had home insurance with Admiral, and unfortunately an escape of water occurred 
from a pipe underneath her bath. Miss G arranged for the leak to be located and fixed and 
then claimed on her policy.
Admiral declined the claim. They explained that the leak itself wasnt covered, although the 
resultant damage would be if Miss G claimed for it. Miss G only wanted to claim for the trace 
and access to the leak. Admiral said thats only covered if the other damage is claimed for.
An investigator here looked into the matter and they agreed with Admiral, that the trace and 
access claim  in isolation  wasnt covered.
Miss G didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide.
I contacted Miss G and Admiral for further information. Miss G provided evidence to show 
damage to her flooring beneath the bathroom, albeit relatively minimal. Admiral still said the 
trace and access cover isnt applicable unless the other damage is claimed for.
I put it to Admiral that the policy wording doesnt say that, but they didnt reply any further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive gone on to decide this complaint, since theres sufficient information to now do so, and 
because Admiral has been given fair opportunity to make any final representations. Miss Gs 
insurance policy says:
Trace and access
The cost of removing and replacing any part of the buildings to find the source of a water or 
oil leak from any tank, pipe, or fixed water or heating system if the buildings are damaged 
due to any buildings insured risk, or by frost damage to your plumbing.
Theres an exclusion which applies to the actual pipe repairs, but it doesnt say there has to 
be a claim for the building damage, only that there has to have been building damage  and 
thats been established.
And the cover provided under trace and access is the cost of removing and replacing any 
part of the buildings. I appreciate the leak was located without the need to remove parts of 
the building, but it could only be accessed by doing so. Given the cover is trace and access I 
think its reasonable to say this instance falls under the access part of the cover.
Miss G says the actual pipe repair was a very minimal part of the job and it seems  from her 
invoice  that the majority of the cost was for labour. The job involved two people and 
included the removal of the bath and shower screen, the pipe fix, and then the reinstatement 
of the bath and shower screen.
Overall, I consider Admiral to be liable to cover the cost of trace and access.
Putting things right
Miss G arranged for the repairs to be completed. I would usually say that means she may 
have paid more than it would have cost Admirals contractors to do the work. But since 
Admirals position has consistently been that trace and access wasnt covered, Miss G would 
have had to have had the work done anyway  I wouldnt expect her to wait for the outcome 
of a complaint to have the leak fixed.
So, I think settlement should be based on Miss Gs invoice. Admiral will, however, be able to 
make a reasonable deduction for the cost of removing and replacing the broken pipe 
(materials and labour for that part). Admiral should provide Miss G with a breakdown of how 
theyve come to their settlement figure.
There doesnt appear to be a specific excess for trace and access cover, but since the 
buildings damage was caused by escape of water, its reasonable for the escape of water 
excess to be deducted.
Admiral should add interest to the settlement at the rate of 8% per annum simple, from the 
date Miss G paid for the work to the date the settlement is issued. HMRC requires Admiral to 
deduct tax from the interest. They should provide Miss G with a certificate showing how 
much has been deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman