DRN-3252050
The complaint
Mr W complains about delays and poor service from his insurer, Covea Insurance plc 
(Covea), when dealing with a claim under his home insurance policy. 
Mr W was supported by a representative when making his complaint. References to Mr W 
include his representative.
What happened
In September 2020 there was a fire at Mr Ws property, causing significant damage. Mr W 
lodged a claim with Covea, who appointed C to manage the claim and the reinstatement 
work. C sent a loss adjuster to inspect the property, who told Mr W that the extent of the 
damage meant he would have to move into alternative accommodation while the property 
was reinstated.
Mr W contacted C frequently to check on progress with the repair work and his claim. 
Further discussions about the work took place the following month, including stripping out of 
the property and the need for replacement of the roof before the reinstatement work could 
begin. Contractors were engaged and submitted estimates for the replacement of the roof 
(October 2020) and reinstatement work (November 2020). In December 2020 Mr W 
submitted a list of items that were beyond economical repair (to be assessed under the 
claim). Work to replace the roof began in January 2021.
Having had to chase C to find out progress with the reinstatement work, Mr W raised his 
concerns in February 2021 about the lack of progress and the time being taken for 
reinstatement work, as well as dissatisfaction with how the claim had been managed.  Mr W 
was also unhappy at having only been reimbursed for two months rent at the alternative 
accommodation, having had to pay six months rent himself (to March 2021). At that point, 
the reinstatement work at Mr Ws property was in progress and it was unclear when it would 
be completed, so Mr W could move back into their property. Mr W moved back into his 
property in June 2021. At that point, although most of the reinstatement work was complete, 
the remaining work was on hold pending completion of some improvements Mr W was 
having done privately.
C logged Mr Ws concerns as a complaint with Covea, although due to an administrative 
oversight this didnt happen until March 2021. Covea considered Mr Ws complaint and 
upheld it. They spoke to Mr W to discuss his concerns, after which they issued their final 
response (in April 2021). In the final response, they said theyd not initially been aware of the 
complaint Mr W lodged with C but that they understood C had retrospectively resolved the 
complaint. But Covea acknowledged that there had been issues with the claim that meant C 
hadnt provided the service expected of them. 
Mr W then complained to this service. He was unhappy at how Covea had managed his 
claim, the delays hed experienced and the service hed received. There were several issues 
with the handling of the claim, including the time that hed been away from his property and 
having to pay for rented accommodation himself (before it was reimbursed). The experience 
had caused him and his family significant stress and anxiety and he wanted compensation.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Covea hadnt acted fairly. She thought the 
claim had been handled poorly and some of the delays were unnecessary and could have 
been avoided. There were significant delays in approving the reinstatement costs, and work 
didnt begin until six months after the claim was lodged. Mr W also had to chase Covea for 
information as well as for reimbursement of rent costs hed paid. Covea failed to keep him 
updated on progress with his claim, with late or cancelled appointments. While Covea had 
apologised to Mr W, the investigator thought Covea needed to do more to put things right. 
She thought they should pay £500 in compensation for the delays and poor service.
Covea disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. While they accepted the service provided to Mr W wasnt what he expected, 
they thought his complaint to them had (by the time Covea considered it) been resolved and 
that Mr W was content with an apology. Mr W had raised new issues but hadnt registered a 
fresh complaint with them. Covea added that some of the works covered by the claim were 
delayed by Mr W having some private works carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say to Mr W that I appreciate the fire and the extensive damage to his 
property would have been a very stressful experience, as well as having to move into 
alternative accommodation. Ive borne this in mind when deciding whether Covea have 
acted fairly towards Mr W. In referring to Covea, I include C as their agents who managed 
the claim and the reinstatement work.
Ive also considered what Covea have said about the issues Mr W raised in his complaint 
being (retrospectively) resolved (by C). And that when they spoke to Mr W, he was content 
with an apology and that the complaint could be closed. Having listened to the call, I can 
understand Coveas view. However, having been sent a final response, a consumer still has 
the right to complaint to this service within six months (which Mr W has done). The call did 
give Mr W the opportunity to raise further issues directly with Covea (or register a fresh 
complaint). Ive not seen any indication that Mr W raised a further complaint with Covea (or a 
further final response from Covea). So, this decision only covers those issues raised by Mr 
W (with C) in February 2021 and Coveas subsequent final response.
In their final response (and in their response to our investigators view) Covea accept that 
the service they provided to Mr W fell short of the standards he should have expected. So, 
the question Ive considered is whether Covea have done enough to put things right. Having 
done so Ive concluded they havent and should do more, for the reasons Ill set out.
In doing so Ive considered what Mr W has told us alongside the timeline set out earlier, as 
well as Coveas own case notes, to gain an understanding of the sequence of events and 
what happened  I think there are several key aspects, which Ive thought about in turn.
First, theres the time taken to determine the reinstatement work needed on Mr Ws property 
and for the work to be carried out. Looking at the evidence available and the timeline of 
events, it took over two months for an estimate of reinstatement costs to be provided, and 
then a further three to four months for them to be fully approved, including delays in a 
surveyor attending the property to validate the estimate. That in turn meant the 
reinstatement work couldnt start. While Id expect significant reinstatement work of the 
extent necessary at Mr Ws property to take some time to be put in place, I think this took 
longer than it should have done. In turn, this meant Mr W and his family had to spend longer 
in alternative accommodation than necessary.Second, theres the lack of communication and responsiveness by Covea (by C) with, and 
to, Mr W during the process. From what Mr W has told us and the evidence hes provided, 
together with what Covea have said and their case notes, Ive concluded that communication 
and responses to Mr W werent always timely. Its clear Mr W had to contact C quite often 
and regularly to ask about progress and what was happening. Appointments made werent 
always kept, adding to the delay and stress to Mr W. While complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity that falls within the remit of this service, Ive noted that Mr Ws complaint to 
C wasnt initially raised with Covea as it should have been, in accordance with Coveas 
internal process. Ive also noted, in the final response, that Covea took steps to address 
issues with Cs performance and service to customers, including Mr W.
A third issue raised by Mr W was the payment and reimbursement for alternative 
accommodation that Mr W moved into while his property was being reinstated. Mr W was 
concerned that hed had to pay himself for the accommodation and that hed only been 
reimbursed for two of the six months hed paid. However, Ive also noted that the alternative 
accommodation was secured by Mr W himself, rather than through the agency that Covea 
would normally use in such situations. Given that, I dont think its unreasonable for Covea to 
reimburse Mr W for the costs on production of appropriate evidence. Its not fully clear at 
what point the issue raised by Mr W came up (given the point about this decision covering 
those issued covered by Coveas final response) but my conclusion is that I dont think its a 
significant issue for my decision.
Coming back to the question of what Covea needs to do to put things right, Ive thought 
carefully about this. Mr W asks for compensation and our investigator thought £500 would be 
fair. Ive considered this in the light of my conclusions about the delays in the reinstatement 
work and the shortcomings in communication and responsiveness by Coves (by C). Ive 
considered what Mr W has told us about the impact of the delays and lack of communication 
and responsiveness, and I can understand that this would have been stressful, particularly 
the length of time taken to assess his claim and undertake reinstatement work. Taking all 
these factors into account I think £500 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to:
pay Mr W £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman