DRN-3966581
The complaint
Mr R complains that Quickly Finance Ltd trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) are asking 
him to pay their fee for a successful Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim hed made in 
2019. 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr R instructed FTR to act on his behalf to see if hed any mis-sold PPI. 
In 2019, Mr R said after he was given conflicting information from FTR about whether hed 
PPI or not, hed contacted his lender, Ill call H himself.  Mr R said it was from his actions 
that his mis-sold PPI complaint was resolved. But he said from July 2022 FTR started asking 
him to pay their fee for his successful claim. He complained to FTR.
FTR said theyd submitted Mr Rs mis-sold PPI claim to H before the August 2019 deadline 
for making such claims. And theyd resolved the confusion around the information theyd 
given to Mr R when hed complained about it in late 2019. FTR said they knew Mr Rs mis-
sold PPI claim was successful, as H had provided an update to say it had been upheld. But 
they didnt know how much hed received in compensation as they hadnt seen the final 
response offer letter. FTR said theyd asked Mr R to provide the final response offer letter in 
late 2019. But neither H or Mr R had sent it to them, until theyd received a copy from H in 
July 2022. FTR said this showed their submission of his mis-sold PPI complaint had been 
successful and that H had compensated Mr R for this. FTR said as Mr Rs PPI claim was 
successful their fee was justified.
Mr R wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTR had shown theyd submitted Mr Rs mis-sold PPI complaint, and 
as the claim was successful their fee was justified. But he asked FTR to pay Mr R £75 as he 
said FTR should have done more to chase H and Mr R for the information they needed to 
get the matter resolved.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see from FTRs records, and comments made by Mr R that thered been conflicting 
information given to him about his PPI claim. But FTR sent Mr R a final response letter about 
this in December 2019. Mr R would have had six months from then to bring his complaint to 
us if he remained unhappy with the outcome. As this complaint wasnt referred to us, I wont 
comment further about the complaint issues Mr Rs raised within it.
I can see from the  complaint Mr R has brought to us that its not in dispute that he signed a 
letter of authority (LoA) and agreed to FTRs terms and conditions when he instructed FTR in 
November 2018 to pursue a mis-sold PPI complaint for him. And that his mis-sold PPI claim 
was successful. In reaching my decision I need to consider whether the fee FTR has asked 
Mr R to pay for this successful claim is justified.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made. As it was expected there would be high volumes of mis-sold PPI 
claims, some lenders investigated a claim based on a data subject request. But others asked for 
further information provided in a PPI questionnaire to strengthen the claim that PPI had been 
mis-sold. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by 
the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
I can see from FTRs records that Mr R first signed the LoA in November 2018, but in January 
2019  H questioned the signature and address details and asked for identification verification. A 
further LoA was signed by Mr R in February 2019, and Im satisfied this was submitted as FTR 
has shown H confirmed receipt of a claim in February 2019. And they identified that Mr R had 
PPI on a mortgage account from June 2002. 
Ive considered FTRs terms and conditions
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And goes on to explain what fee they would charge for their claims service:
No fees will be charged to you in respect of an unsuccessful claim. Where a claim is 
successful FTR will charge a contingency fee representing no more that 24% inclusion of 
VAT  in respect of any redress/compensation/goodwill payment recovered on your behalf. 
The terms and conditions also provide monetary examples of this. So, Im satisfied that from 
when PPI was found FTR were providing Mr R with their claims service, and that theyd 
charge a fee if his claim was successful.
PPI being found didnt automatically mean Mr Rs claim would be successful as lenders 
would need to consider a number of factors. As outlined above some lenders didnt just 
accept a LoA to start investigating a mis-sold PPI complaint. I can see that Mr R was asked 
by FTR to complete a PPI questionnaire in support of his claim. And that in July 2019 they 
submitted a formal letter of complaint (LoC) to H with Mr Rs completed PPI questionnaire.
I can see that Mr R asked FTR in August and September 2019 for an update about his mis-
sold PPI claim. From FTRs notes Mr R was told they were waiting for a response from H. 
In September 2019, FTR were aware that H had upheld Mr Rs claim at the end of August 
2019, and that they were waiting for a copy of Hs final response offer.
I can see Mr R spoke to FTR in early October 2019 that shows he was also aware his mis-
sold PPI claim had been successful, but he said he hadnt yet received any compensation 
from H. But FTR has shown that Mr R accepted the outcome to his complaint with H in 
October 2019. 
The agreement Mr R would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. FTRS terms and conditions say:
Your claim is deemed successful if we send a letter of complaint and you go on to receive 
an offer from the lender which you accept.
As detailed above FTR has shown they sent a formal LoC in July 2019, Mr Rs mis-sold PPI 
claim was successful, and he accepted the offer of compensation from H in early October 
2019. 
FTRs terms and conditions also say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter
of Authority (Cooling -off period) at no cost to You.
And go on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing. I havent seen any evidence that Mr R asked to cancel his agreement with FTR 
before his mis-sold PPI claim was upheld.
So, I think Mr Rs claim was submitted by FTR prior to the August deadline, and the claim 
was successful. So, I think FTR is justified in charging their fee. And the amount theyve 
asked Mr R to pay is in line with the agreed terms and conditions of 24% inclusive of VAT 
But I agree with our investigator that FTR should have been more proactive in trying to find 
out what the compensation offer was from H so that they could calculate their success fee. 
Mr R received his compensation in October 2019 but FTR didnt establish the amount until 
July 2022. So, I think it would be distressing for Mr R be asked to pay a fee for something he 
received some time before. So, I ask FTR to pay Mr R £75 for the distress this has caused.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Ltd trading as Fast Track Reclaim 
to pay Mr R £75 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023. 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman