DRN-3290949
The complaint
Mr D complains Sense Network Limited unreasonably delayed the transfer of his defined 
contribution workplace pension to another provider causing him a financial loss.
Mr D was advised by Old Royle Wealth Management Limited. Old Royle is an appointed 
representative of Sense Network Limited which is responsible for answering the complaint, 
so for simplicity Ill just refer to Sense in the decision.  
What happened
Mr D had a defined contribution (DC) workplace pension plan, administered by provider A. 
In April 2019 the company he worked for was taken over, and he became a member of his 
new employers group personal pension (GPP) with another provider. Later that year Mr D 
was considering consolidating his pensions, by transferring his old workplace policy with A to 
his new employers GPP. He was recommended to seek financial advice before doing so. 
Mr D located Old Royle (Sense) through an industry website, and met the adviser in 
September 2019, who completed a fact find of Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. Mr D 
was assessed as having an attitude to risk (ATR) of 7/10 being on the low end of 
moderate to adventurous.  On 6 September 2019 Mr D signed a letter authorising Sense to 
obtain information about his pension from A. 
In October 2019 Mr D informed the Sense adviser the workplace plan with A had been 
closed to new contributions with effect from 30 September 2019. And a new LifeSight plan 
was being set up to be administered by firm W. Funds would automatically transfer across 
from A to W in bulk, unless members wished to make their own arrangements or take 
benefits, which had to be done by 17 October 2019. 
At a second meeting in November 2019 the Sense adviser presented Mr D with his 
recommendation, which was to maintain membership of his current employers GPP to 
benefit from employer contributions. And rather than keeping all his eggs in one basket by 
consolidating the old workplace plan with A (valued at just over £93,967) to the GPP, Sense 
recommended Mr D transfer to a personal pension with a new provider F. This was because 
the plan with A was invested at a very high-risk level of 10/10, in only two funds. Whereas 
the plan with F would be more diversified, spread across 20 funds and invested in line with a 
more appropriate risk level of 7/10.  The adviser charge was 2.5%, discounted from Senses 
usual rate of 3.5%, with ongoing investment charges of 1% and fund charges of 0.19% 
Mr D accepted the advice and signed the forms in early December 2019, after which Sense 
arranged for an account to be opened with F. 
In late December 2019 Mr D checked his account with F and asked Sense why it still 
showed a zero balance. Sense told Mr D transfers usually take a few weeks but it was 
dependent on the ceding scheme. 
When F requested the funds from A in December 2019 theyd already moved across to W. 
So the transfer was refused and had to be requested again direct to W, which F did on 6 
January 2020. F advised Sense of this on 27 December 2019, and the Sense adviser 
progressed-chased F several times through January and February. F was informed by W 
that it needed more forms to be completed but didnt provide its exact requirements. 
On 24 February 2020 Sense received from W an estimated transfer value of Mr Ds plan, of 
just under £101,394, and the relevant forms it needed Mr D to complete, including Mr Ds 
verification of identity. W said it was their policy not to respond to third party questionnaires 
but referred the adviser to the scheme information available on its website. This was around 
the start of the global pandemic which caused stock market volatility, and Mr D was nervous 
about his funds being in limbo. Mr D provided a copy of his passport and signed Ws forms 
on 28 February 2020. He wondered if his funds should be converted to cash until markets 
stabilised, but Sense said the transfer had already been keyed. Sense returned the forms 
to W which received them on 6 March 2020. But a week later as the transfer value had fallen 
by 10%, W asked Mr D if he wanted to go ahead with the transfer to F given the market 
conditions. Mr D still wished to proceed with the transfer, but he complained to Sense about 
the four-month delay and subsequent financial loss he felt it had caused. Mr D also 
complained to W, which is being dealt with separately.
On 20 March 2020 Mr D discovered the transfer to F had been cancelled, as W had been 
told by Sense Mr D no longer wished to proceed. In view of his complaint, Sense decided to 
end its relationship with Mr D, and because the transfer didnt complete, he wasnt charged 
for its services. At this point Mr D took the decision to cash in his fund, which was valued at 
just over £74,570. 
Sense didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. They didnt think their adviser could be held 
responsible for how long the transfer to F took when it was dependent on other parties. 
Sense acknowledged Mr Ds plan may have fallen in value over those four months, but this 
was based on As investment strategy which Sense hadnt been involved with. It said Mr D 
still proceeded with the transfer to F, even after being told the value had fallen 10%. Sense 
didnt have authority over Mr Ds plan with W, and if Mr D had wanted to convert the funds 
into cash sooner he couldve contacted W himself. Finally Sense said the terms of its client 
agreement allowed either party to terminate the relationship without penalty, as its adviser 
had done. 
Mr D wasnt happy as he thought it was Senses role to coordinate the transfer with all the 
parties involved. He offered to give Sense another chance to arrange the transfer and 
suggested it should pay him substantial compensation to make up for fall in the plan value. 
Sense declined, so Mr D bought his complaint to this service.
Mr D provided information to show his plan had switched from A to W on 25 October 2019, 
so he thought Sense shouldve informed F to request the funds from W rather than A. This 
wouldve enabled the transfer to take place sooner and he could have cashed his plan in 
December or January minimising his loss. He said the Sense adviser had rushed him and 
had made false promises. So Mr D proposed three options for compensation he wanted our 
investigator to consider.
Having looked at things our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he expected 
transfers to be completed as smoothly and quickly as possible, but sometimes delays 
occurred, and the ones in this case werent solely down to Sense. 
The new plan with F was set up on 6 December 2019 four days after Mr D signed the forms, 
which he felt was a reasonable timescale. But the main delay was related to the switch of 
administrators from A to W which was outside of Senses control. Mr Ds plan did fall in value 
due to market turbulence at the start of the pandemic, but Sense hadnt advised Mr D on his 
investment strategy, so he couldnt hold Sense responsible for any loss Mr D had made.Mr D pointed out Sense had based its advice on his plan being with A, it hadnt considered 
any risks inherent in the transfer of administrators to W.  He said Sense could have advised 
him to wait until the transfer of his plan from A to W was completed before arranging the 
transfer to F. And he felt the advisor had misled him about how long the transfer might take. 
Hed also complained to A and F in relation to their contribution to the delays. 
Mr Ds further comments didnt change the investigators mind, so its been passed to me to 
issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several parties involved in the transaction at the heart of Mr Ds complaint. This 
decision just concerns the actions of Sense Network, so the other parties are only mentioned 
for completeness. 
An adviser does oversee a transfer as Mr D expected, and it should ensure the documents 
are completed and returned within a timely fashion, with all the ceding schemes 
requirements met. I can see A confirmed to Mr D by email on 2 September 2019 that it had 
arranged for a transfer pack to be sent out to him, so it was this pack the Sense advisor 
used in his assessment. 
I reviewed the timeline of events in this complaint, and if the transfer hadnt been cancelled 
by Sense on 13 March 2020, it would have been six months from when Mr D first met with 
Sense in September 2019, and three months from when he signed the transfer instructions 
on 2 December 2019, which I appreciate seems quite a long time. So in that regard I can 
understand why Mr D is unhappy. Mr D says Sense made false promises but Ive not seen 
anything to show how long Mr D was told the transfer might take. Other than in late 
December 2019 when Mr D queried why his plan with F was still showing a nil balance, the 
adviser said transfers usually take a few weeks but he also went on to say that it depends 
on how much the provider drags their heels. Mr D thinks a few weeks should mean two to 
three weeks. But I think Sense was simply giving a rough indication of how long a transfer 
generally takes in the advisers experience, not giving a commitment about how long Mr Ds 
transfer would take. And no transfer can take place until the ceding schemes requirements 
are satisfied, given the importance of the transaction. 
The transfer to the new plan with F was complicated by the transfer of Mr Ds workplace 
pension to a new provider, which wasnt known by Sense at the outset. On 18 October 2019 
Mr D forwarded to Sense an email explaining the trustees of his workplace pension had 
taken the decision to close the scheme with A and bulk transfer to the LifeSight plan 
administered by W. I dont know when Mr D received the notification himself, but I think it 
must have been sometime earlier, as the deadline for advising A if he didnt wish to be 
included in the bulk transfer was 17 October 2019. In terms of a timescale, under When will 
the transfer take place no firm date was given, but it was expected to happen between mid-
November to mid-December 2019. And it had been deliberately delayed, to avoid any Brexit-
related volatility in the period immediately after 31 October 2019. 
So from the information it had been given, Sense didnt know when it would happen, except 
that it wouldnt be before mid-November 2019.
Mr D has provided an online transaction history showing the bulk switch of his plan valued at 
just under £95,097 to the new LifeSight plan administered by W took place on 25 October 
2019 (effective 1 October 2019). He also provided a statement dated 29 November 2019 showing the value at just over £96,808. Im not sure when Mr D accessed the portal and 
discovered the switch had happened on 25 October 2019, but Ive not seen anything to show 
Mr D shared this information with Sense or mentioned it at the meetings on 22 November or 
2 December 2019. The notification explained Mr D could access his plan with A online to 
make investment selections until 18 October 2019 after which thered be a blackout period 
prior to the scheme with A being closed. It gave details of the wider range of fund options 
which could be accessed via the LifeSight website. If no changes were made, Mr Ds plan 
would be transferred into the closest equivalent fund with LifeSight, so his investments 
wouldnt be diversified or de-risked unless he made changes himself. 
Mr D has pointed out the form he signed on 2 December 2019 gave the scheme name as 
LifeSight so should have been sent to the new administrators W. Ive looked at the form Mr 
D signed, and [A] LifeSight is written in the section headed The scheme name from which 
you wish to transfer. [A] LifeSight is repeated in the section Name of pension 
administrator and As address is included. So while LifeSight was included, the form Mr D 
signed clearly showed the funds were being requested from A. It doesnt appear when the 
instructions were submitted to A, Sense were aware the transfer to W had already taken 
place. But its reasonable if Sense thought in those circumstances A would simply forward 
Mr Ds instructions to W.  But even if that had happened, each ceding scheme will have their 
own forms and requirements, and W wasnt obliged to accept As forms or the letter of 
authority relating to A, which is why Mr D had to sign a new letter of authority for W.  
The transfer request form was reused, with the scheme name amended to LifeSight Master 
Trust and the pension administrator amended to W. Some time may have been saved if F 
had been informed from the outset to request the transfer direct to W. But if Sense or F 
hadnt known the switch from A to W had already happened, this isnt something I can hold 
Sense responsible for. There was an eight working day delay (allowing for the festive 
holiday), between 12 December 2019 when A told F it no longer held Mr Ds plan, and 27 
December 2019 when F advised Sense that A had been unable to process the application 
due to the blackout period of the transfer to W. But I cant see Sense was aware of a 
problem before then. 
On 2 January 2020 F told the Sense adviser that you will need to request [the transfer] with 
[W] after they have confirmed to you that they have set up [Mr Ds] new pension policy and 
taken on [Mr Ds] pension benefits. So Sense needed W to confirm that it had received 
Mr Ds funds from A, and his LifeSight plan had been set up. And W could only do that once 
theyd received authority from Mr D to accept instructions from Sense or F. 
But even if F had requested the funds directly from W in December 2019, its not certain 
Mr D would be in a different position. Mr D says if the transfer had happened earlier hed 
have moved his funds into cash sooner and minimised his loss. But the pandemic didnt 
significantly impact investment markets until early March 2020. Indeed Mr Ds plan was still 
growing through February, evidenced by the estimated transfer value provided by W in their 
form which Mr D signed on 28 February 2020 of just under £101,394. If F had requested a 
transfer quote from W in December 2019, prior to the pandemic-related turbulence, its likely 
to have been different, and Mr D still might not have decided to cash it then. 
Sense had no authority to make investment decisions over Mr Ds plan with A or W. The 
adviser had told Mr D he thought the funds he was invested in were too high risk at 10/10, 
when hed been assessed as having a lower ATR of 7/10. But the Sense adviser couldnt 
make any changes to Mr Ds funds, only Mr D could do that, either through the online portal 
or by contacting A or W. 
Instead of instructing LifeSight to move his funds into cash, Mr D decided to proceed with the 
transfer to F, despite being made aware by W on 13 March 2020, his plan value had fallen by 10%. The transfer was then cancelled as W had been told (by Sense) Mr D didnt want to 
proceed. But a week later Mr D himself took the decision to sell his funds, realising the much 
lower value of £74,570.Meaning he hasnt benefitted from the subsequent market recovery, 
but thats not something I can hold Sense responsible for. 
Im sure Mr D was shocked the transaction was cancelled by Sense without his agreement. 
But its business terms do allow either party to withdraw from the relationship, and Mr D 
hasnt been charged for their work. I havent commented on Mr Ds point that Sense didnt 
assess any risks inherent in the bulk transfer from A to W, as this wasnt part of his original 
complaint, or the reason he engaged Sense.  But from what I can see from the notification, 
there was no option to retain the A scheme. And if Mr D had wished to transfer elsewhere 
rather than be included in the bulk transfer to LifeSight administered by W, hed have had to 
notify A by 17 October 2019.
So while I understand why Mr D is unhappy, I cant fairly hold Sense responsible for his loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman