DRN-4037524
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc, (NatWest) 
continued to add interest to a loan he believed had already been repaid. He said the bank 
delayed responding to a Data Subject Access Request (SAR) which meant it took many 
months for him to discover the banks actions
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties. So, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly:
In March 2014, NatWest issued a formal demand for the outstanding balance of a 
loan (the Loan) which Mr M had with the bank. The amount outstanding at the time 
was just over £35,000 and it was secured by way of a second charge on Mr Ms 
family home. 
Mr M has told us that he began making payments of around £100 per week towards 
reducing the Loan.
In November 2021, Mr M submitted a SAR to NatWest, in which he asked for, among 
other things, information relating to his account with the bank. Although the bank 
responded with the information, including statements for the Loan, it didnt do so until 
September 2022. 
NatWest acknowledged their delay and according to the bank, with Mr Ms 
agreement, they reduced the balance of the Loan by £500 by way of an apology.
But based on the information provided in the SAR, Mr M said he realised the Loan 
had not been repaid. So, he complained to NatWest saying:  
oBefore their response to the SAR, for many years the bank did not provide 
statements to him and nor did NatWest request loan repayments from him. 
That caused him to believe the Loan had been fully repaid. 
oWithout explanation, the bank took an unreasonably long time to provide the 
information, and this was considerably outside the timeframe allowed for SAR 
responses. Initial statements that were provided did not show interest 
accruing on the Loan. 
oThe delay caused him financial loss. In particular, because the many months 
it took the bank to provide the information that alerted him to the outstanding 
debt, interest rates had increased significantly. Whereas, if the information 
had been supplied within the required time frame for a SAR, the cost of re- 
structuring the Loan would have been significantly lower. Also, it may have 
been possible to restructure on a fixed rate to lock in the lower rate that 
existed at the time. 
oFurthermore, finding out that the Loan still existed was extremely distressing 
and worrying.  His mental health suffered because of the stress and worry 
that his home might be repossessed in view of the outstanding debt. 
oThe £500 already paid, is unacceptable in view of the level of financial loss 
and personal distress that he suffered. 
Apart from their acknowledgement that they exceeded the timeframe for complying with the 
SAR, for which theyd paid compensation, the bank didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
As Mr Ms complaint remained unresolved therefore, he referred it to this service to look into. 
In their formal submissions to us, NatWest commented more fully on Mr Ms complaint. They 
said - in summary: 
oAfter the Loan entered Recoveries in 2014, effectively it became non- 
operational on the banks system, although it remained open so that the 
outstanding balance could be repaid. That however, meant its systems no 
longer showed interest as accruing and this was reflected in the statements 
that were generated and provided in response to Mr Ms SAR. 
oBut the bank was entitled to continue to charge interest on the Loan by virtue 
of section 2.4 of Mr Ms loan agreement. In accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the Loan, the bank applied interest after the event of default. 
And it is allowed to do so at the rate that may be determined from time to 
time. The bank did nothing wrong therefore, when it continued to charge 
interest on the outstanding debt.
oMr M signed the loan agreement, and he was advised to seek legal advice 
before signing it. He ought therefore to have been aware that interest would 
still be added to the Loan after it defaulted in 2014. 
oRegarding the absence of statements, the Loan is not a Consumer Credit Act 
regulated product, meaning there is no requirement for the bank to issue 
annual statements to Mr M. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and noted that NatWest accepted they were at 
fault for the delay in sending the information to Mr M and compensated him.
And although he also noted that Mr M wanted to know the reason for the banks delay, he 
said this isnt a matter for our service since we base our awards on the impact of the 
financial business error rather than the reason for it.
He acknowledged the statements NatWest provided to Mr M would have caused some 
confusion because they didnt show interest accruing on the Loan. However, he was 
satisfied the bank did provide accurate statements to Mr M. He was persuaded by the banks 
explanation that because the Loan is in default, the interest it accrued is shown on another 
internal system, from which the statements it sent to Mr M in response to his SAR were not 
generated. He said, however, that having regard to the terms and conditions of the Loan, which is unregulated, interest continues to accrue after default. So, he couldnt say the 
banks decision to charge interest was unfair.
Although the investigator was satisfied also that Mr M did experience stress and worry 
because of the debt, he said it was difficult to say with certainty what the impact was. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and has asked for an ombudsmans 
review of his case. He maintained his position that £500 compensation isnt sufficient for 
what he described as the unacceptable level of service NatWest provided on multiple 
occasions. He also said that by not providing any reason for their delay, NatWest were by 
default trying to extend the process of his proposed litigation so that it would become time 
barred.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest continued charging of interest 
Mr M has questioned the banks right to continue charging interest on the Loan after hed 
defaulted. So, Ive weighed up the terms and conditions of the Loan against Mr Ms 
argument that it was unfair for the bank to do so. 
Section 2.4 says: 
Following an Event of Default, the Bank may charge interest on the whole amount due at 
2% p.a. above the Interest Rate (or at such other rate as may be determined by the Bank 
from time to time), until the default is remedied to the Banks satisfaction
It is difficult for me to conclude the bank made an error when it continued to charged interest. 
It is not being disputed the Loan was in default and in view of the term just mentioned 
NatWest were entitled to continue charging interest whilst it remained outstanding and in 
default. 
Moreover, evidence from the bank shows that although in the event of default, it was entitled 
to charge an extra 2% above the rate applied to the Loan, it did not. 
But I agree with the investigator that it was likely to be confusing for Mr M that the 
statements he received in response to his SAR omitted to show that position. I do not find 
the banks explanation as to why that was the case an unreasonable one. But more to the 
point, the omission does not in my view mean that NatWest were not entitled or otherwise 
should be precluded from charging such interest. 
I turn next to NatWests delay in providing the information and its impact.
The delay in providing the information.
As noted above, NatWest have acknowledged their delay and paid Mr M £500 in 
compensation.
 
I know Mr M would like to know more about why there was such delay. And whereas the 
bank has said it was because of operational challenges, I appreciate Mr M would prefer to 
have further details. But our role is to consider whether a financial business has done something wrong and to 
award fair and reasonable compensation for the impact of the error. To that end we wouldnt 
look further into the reasons an error occurred. 
Both sides accept what went wrong in this case, which was that the bank delayed providing 
the information Mr M asked for in November 2021. In the circumstances therefore, what I 
have to decide is whether beyond the £500 that NatWest have already credited to the Loan, 
the bank should do anything further. Especially, bearing in mind that Mr M doesnt think the 
compensation goes far enough when set against the wider impact of the delay. 
The impact of the delay in providing information to Mr M. 
Mr G has told us that after receiving the information from the bank in September 2022 he 
was distressed and worried to discover the extent of the outstanding balance on the Loan. 
He said he was concerned his home might be at risk given that the Loan was secured 
against it. 
I have no doubt Mr M would have found the revelation of the outstanding balance on the 
Loan disappointing and distressing. But Ive seen no evidence the bank had threatened to 
enforce its charge against Mr Ms home to make him fearful it was at risk of repossession. 
Whilst not wishing to minimise Mr Ms feelings at the time, I regard the banks compensation 
for its delay as fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of this case. 
Mr M has mentioned broader impact which Ive also considered carefully. 
litigation impact
Mr M explained the information was needed for litigation purposes. He said the banks delay 
seemed to be aimed at extending that process so it would become time barred. 
Our investigator did ask Mr M for details of the impact  including whether for example his 
solicitors were awaiting the information which meant they were unable to take legal action on 
his behalf. 
But no such details were provided. In the circumstances therefore, it is difficult reasonably to 
conclude the banks delay impacted Mr Ms litigation.  
 
financial impact
I also note Mr M said he suffered financially as a result of the delay in two key respects, and 
Ive thought about them.
Firstly, Mr M said hed assumed he had repaid the Loan. In particular, because hed not 
been chased for repayments since 2019.  However, he later found his assumption was 
wrong, and, with accrued interest, the Loan balance was roughly £31,000. 
But as Ive already mentioned Im satisfied the bank was entitled to continue to charge 
interest on the Loan. 
Moreover, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr M to have made the assumption he did. I say 
that, bearing in mind the Loan was secured by way of a second charge on his home. In the 
event the Loan had been repaid, Mr M would reasonably have expected to receive 
confirmation from the bank that it was releasing its charge. Mr M received no such 
confirmation.  Secondly, Mr M has told us by the time he received the information hed asked for from the 
bank  which was approximately 10 months after the initial request, interest rates had 
increased.  In other words, they were lower in November 2021 compared to September 2022 
when he eventually heard from NatWest. So, he lost the opportunity to benefit from the lower 
rate by refinancing his borrowing.
But for me to require NatWest to pay compensation in the circumstances described by Mr M, 
Id need to be satisfied Mr M would have refinanced the Loan and secured a more 
favourable rate compared what NatWest was charging him. 
But I havent seen anything that supports this. I note that interest rates were at an historic 
low in the periods Mr M does not dispute he knew the Loan existed and hadnt been repaid. 
But he took no steps at that time to restructure the Loan. So, I do not find that NatWest 
should pay compensation for the loss of opportunity to do so in 2021 as Mr M has 
suggested.
 
My final decision
Having regard to what I have said above, although Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I do not 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman