DRN-3364863
The complaint
Mrs A complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mrs A was given a loan by 1Plus1 as follows: 
Date taken Loan 
statusNumber of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*Total 
payable 
10 October 2018 Paid 24 £2,750 £168.44 £4,042.56
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs As complaint. She didnt think that 1Plus1 shouldve 
provided the loan and so she recommended upholding the complaint and set out the steps 
1Plus1 needed to take to put things right. 
1Plus1 disagreed with our investigators view. 1Plus1 didnt feel that our investigator had 
properly explained parts of her view. In summary, it mainly said that it worked out that Mrs A 
shouldve had around £816 surplus each month which showed this loan was affordable for 
Mrs A.  
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. Id like to reassure 1Plus1 that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator and I am upholding Mrs As complaint for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain in more detail why I say this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
1Plus1 asked Mrs A about her income and expenses, it carried out credit checks and did an 
electronic check to verify her pay. It also took into account statistical information when 
comparing Mrs As declared expenditure against national data showing typical spending for 
someone in the same situation.
1Plus1 recorded a figure of £1,500 net salary per month and understood that Mrs A also 
received around £500 or so additional income each month - although I think its fair to say 
this included benefits that were paid based on her earnings and circumstances and 
specifically intended to help cover other costs  not repay additional debt.  
After doing its own background checks and allowing for her declared monthly outgoings, 
including a £200 buffer for emergencies and enough to cover the existing credit 
commitments Mrs A told 1Plus1 she was still paying, 1Plus1 worked out that Mrs A should 
still have been left with around £816 spare cash. So this led 1Plus1 to conclude that the loan 
was affordable for Mrs A.
Ive taken carefully into account everything 1Plus1 has said in response to our investigators 
view about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully about what I think a 
responsible lender should have made of all the information it had gathered and in particular 
whether it was enough for 1Plus1 to make a fair decision to lend.
Our investigator thought 1Plus1 needed to do further checks before agreeing this loan. 
1Plus1 disagrees on this point. But I think its fair to say that 1Plus1 recognised that it had 
information which suggested that Mrs A had some serious money management problems 
and so more in-depth checks wouldve been reasonable and proportionate. And I've carefully 
listened to the call recording when 1Plus1 asked Mrs A about defaults it was aware of and 
arrears on payday loans it had seen. It also enquired about a large loan she had taken out 
within the last three months and a home credit account she had recently taken out. It queried 
an account it saw was in a debt management plan. I think 1Plus1 was right to identify all of 
these things as indications of potential financial difficulty. But it hasnt shown me that it went 
far enough in its checks. 
Whilst 1Plus1 was entitled to expect that Mrs A was confident she was correct about the 
information she provided, it also had a responsibility to carry out sufficient checks to be able 
to satisfy itself that it was fair to lend and that the loan would be sustainably affordable for 
her. It seems to me that 1Plus1 accepted Mrs As assertions that all her problematic 
accounts had already been paid and there were reporting errors and incomplete information 
shown on the credit checks 1Plus1 had obtained  despite the fact that the information 
1Plus1 saw appeared to contradict what Mrs A had said. I think it was also apparent that 
Mrs A had a long established track record of using expensive credit and this was significantly 
at odds with the affordability assessment it had done suggesting she had more than £800 
spare cash each month. Keeping in mind that Mrs A had said her main household costs were mostly paid by another 
member of the household, I think 1Plus1 should have realised that there was no obvious 
explanation for Mrs As problematic debt. Or why someone with the amount of spare cash it 
thought Mrs A should have had apparently still needed to rely to this extent on obtaining 
expensive credit.
I dont think 1Plus1 was reasonably able to say that the information it gathered supported its 
lending decision and I cant fairly say that 1Plus1 carried out what I consider wouldve been 
proportionate checks in these circumstances. This means I need to consider what its likely a 
proportionate check wouldve shown had this been done.
I've looked at a credit report provided by Mrs A which I think gives a useful guide to 
understanding her overall financial situation at the time. And I think, if 1Plus1 had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this loan was 
going to be sustainably affordable for Mrs A. 
I think the overall picture was of someone persistently reliant on expensive credit and 
already unable to afford the cost of her debt without borrowing to fund repayments. Her 
payday loans hadnt been repaid and she had taken out other loans that 1Plus1 was 
unaware of, including a large loan for £7,750 which was going to cost her £306 per month 
just a week or so before applying for this loan. 
Together with the monthly repayments for this loan and the other outstanding credit 
commitments that Mrs A had signed up to, this would mean that Mrs A was committed to 
paying such a large proportion of her monthly income on servicing her debt that it was 
unlikely she would be able to pay for this loan in a sustainable way  in other words, without 
borrowing further.
And thats borne out by what I've seen on the credit report provided. The fact that Mrs A 
made the loan repayments without any evident difficulty doesnt mean that she was able to 
do so sustainably. She continued to take out expensive credit  effectively borrowing from 
one lender to pay others  which I think wouldve been a reasonably foreseeable 
consequence of this lending had 1Plus1 carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to 
provide this loan.  
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything 1Plus1 has said, including 
its detailed responses to our investigators view. I acknowledge that 1Plus1 has taken a 
different view to me. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect 
the outcome of this complaint and whilst I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing 
for 1Plus1, I hope that setting things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my 
conclusions. 
As Mrs A has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of 
what 1Plus1 did wrong. So, 1Plus1 needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that 1Plus1 should pay any additional redress. Mrs A 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 1Plus1 acted 
unfairly towards Mrs A in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. And 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs A to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Mrs A shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. 1Plus1 should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs A received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mrs A made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs A having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1Plus1 should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs A.
Whilst its fair that Mrs As credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 1Plus1 should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mrs As credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 should 
give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman