DRN-2741740
Complaint
Miss J has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Miss J bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
On 4 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
that I was thinking of coming to a different outcome to our adjudicator. So before I issued my 
final decision, I wanted to give Miss J and AXA an opportunity to respond. Below is an 
extract of what I said:
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain 
Miss Js consent before adding it to her store card. However, Miss J says as far as she is 
aware, the policy was added without her knowledge or consent. In addition, she said if she 
had been made aware that the PPI was optional, she would have declined it as it was an 
additional cost which she did not want or need.
 
AXA has provided a copy of Miss Js application form completed instore. The form has a 
section for the PPI titled Account Cover and applicants have to sign this section if they wish 
to take the policy. The section reads (Only sign this box if you require Account cover) and 
you had to sign underneath Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover 
(subject to eligibility). . Miss J has signed this section, indicating she wanted to add the 
cover to her card.
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Miss J had the option of 
selecting whether or not she wanted Card Protection Plan. Miss J didnt select this product, 
so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product. 
The difficultly I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss J and the store 
assistant when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Taking all of this into consideration, in the absence of anything else to support what Miss J 
has told me, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for to me to say that AXA didnt make 
Miss J aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI. And I dont think she would have 
signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss J which means it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Miss J doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Miss J.
Miss J has told us she wasnt entitled to any pay from her employer if she was too unwell to 
work or was ever made redundant. She has, however, said she had £4,000 in savings which 
she could have used to help cover her store card repayments if she was unable to work. So, 
Ive thought about whether this would have meant the policy wasnt useful for her. 
During a conversation with our service, Miss J explained that the money she referred to as 
savings, was held in an ISA and that she was planning on using it to pay off a car loan and 
eventually buy another car. Because of this, Im satisfied this money was earmarked for 
another use, so I dont think this shows the PPI wouldnt have been useful for her. 
The PPI would have paid out in the event she was off work sick and it would also have paid 
a benefit if Miss J was ever made redundant. It also would have enabled Miss J to use her 
savings for its intended purpose - to pay off the car loan and buy another car as she had 
planned.  
So overall, I think Miss J could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy. 
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. 
Neither Miss J nor AXA responded with anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As neither Miss J nor AXA provided any further evidence or arguments for me to look at, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
So I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Js 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 Donna Parsons
Ombudsman