DRN-2897268
The complaint
Ms C and Mr G complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined a 
claim they made on their pet insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 18 June 2021. I came to a different outcome 
to our investigator, so I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond to my provisional 
decision with any additional information theyd like me to consider. Both parties have now 
responded and so Im now in a position to issue my decision on this case.
I have copied my provisional decision below  it also forms part of this final decision.
On 10 September 2020, Ms C and Mr G took out a pet insurance policy to cover their dog, 
E  the policy was underwritten by Acromas.
In early 2021, E was diagnosed with, and received treatment for seizures. Ms C and Mr G 
subsequently made a claim on their policy to cover the costs of the treatment.
Acromas declined the claim. It said that upon checking Es medical history, it could see that 
E had suffered from seizures previously, before inception of the policy. It said that the 
seizures being claimed for would be defined as a pre-existing medical condition under the 
terms of the policy. And pre-existing conditions werent covered.
Ms C and Mr G werent happy with this. They said that they only mentioned the seizures to 
the vets prior to the inception of the policy and E hadnt had a diagnosis or received 
medication. So Ms C and Mr G dont think it was fair of Acromas to say that the condition 
was pre-existing, or that it declined the claim.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and that Acromas ought to 
reconsider the claim. Although he agreed that E did have a pre-existing medical condition, 
he didnt think Ms C and Mr G were aware of the problem or that E might need treatment at 
a later date. 
Acromas responded to say it didnt agree. It provided a number of points as to why it didnt 
think it had unfairly declined the claim. 
Because Acromas didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Having looked at everything, I dont intend to uphold Ms C and Mr Gs complaint. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to them, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
To understand if Es condition is pre-existing, its first important to understand what the 
condition being claimed for now is. I can see from the claim form and medical history notes 
that Es treatment is for seizures.
Its probably worth starting off by saying that the exclusion of pre-existing medical conditions 
in a pet insurance policy is a fairly common exclusion. Its up to the insurer themselves to 
decide what risk they are happy to insure. I dont find this to be unfair as long as the 
consumer has been treated fairly.  
Looking at Ms C and Mr Gs policy specifically, it says, that Acromas wont pay out for any 
veterinary fees for a pre-existing medical condition. And pre-existing medical conditions are 
defined as:
a. An injury that happened, or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your pets 
policy started.
b. An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an 
injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before your policy started.
c. An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, illness or clinical 
sign your pet had before your policy started, no matter where the injury, illness, or clinical 
signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets body.
Ive had a look at the notes from Es medical history. I can see that there is an entry on 16 
March 2018 that says:
O thinks E had a seizure yesterday evening. Suddenly went very ridged and unable to 
move. O says a similar thing happened to him on a walk a few months ago. Explained to O 
that usually seizures happen when animals are at rest or asleep. Usually we see tonic/clonic 
motion but not always. E was also responsive during the event  again not usual for 
seizures.
And theres a following entry of 20 March 2019 that says:
O reports has seizures every 2-3 months. Not wanting to persue long term meds/ blood 
testing at the moment.
From looking at both entries, I think its clear E had been to the vets on two occasions 
because he was having, or at least displaying signs of seizures. When Ive referred to the 
definition of a pre-existing medical condition, I think Es condition was pre-existing. I say this 
because the medical notes suggest that E was displaying clinical signs of this illness before 
the policy started. And I think the illness he has now, is the same as, or has the same clinical 
signs as the illness he had before the start of the policy.
Its for this reason that I dont currently think Acomas were unfair to decline the claim. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter that the vet sent to Acromas about Es condition. The letter asks 
Acromas to reconsider its decision to decline the claim. The letter went on to say that the 
notes from 2018 suggest that Es symptoms werent consistent with a seizure, but no further 
investigation was carried out in terms of diagnosis. The letter goes onto to say that when E 
went to the vets 12 months later, the vet found nothing of concern, but Ms C and Mr G had 
reported some seizures episodes, however they werent confirmed by the vet and no 
investigation or treatment was undertaken.
I thought carefully about this letter. But currently, it doesnt change my thoughts on the 
outcome of this case. The letter essentially says that E hadnt had a diagnosis of seizures 
prior to the policy starting. So, I presume its saying the condition couldnt have been pre-existing if there hadnt been a diagnosis. But looking at the notes, Ms C and Mr G thought E 
was displaying symptoms of seizures, and while E might not have had a diagnosis, I think its 
clear that E showed clinical signs of the illness. 
I appreciate that in 2018, the notes say that Es symptoms werent consistent with a seizure, 
but I dont think this necessarily means that it wasnt one. And later in 2019, there doesnt 
seem to be much dispute that E was showing signs of a seizure, and it seems as though 
treatment options were discussed at this point because Ms C and Mr G declined them.
I think Ms C and Mr G would have been aware of the likelihood of E being diagnosed with 
seizures  afterall, they had witnessed this and described E as having seizures to the vets 
on two occasions prior to the start of the policy. The notes suggest that Ms C and Mr G 
chose not to get a diagnosis or treatment at the time. So, it appears to me that Ms C and Mr 
G knew their dog was displaying signs of an illness, which is directly linked to the condition 
they are now claiming for.
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont think I can fairly say Acromas didnt anything 
wrong in declining Ms C and Mr Gs claim. And so I wont be asking them to reconsider the 
claim. 
Acromas has responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt have anything more to 
add.
Ms C and Mr G responded as they didnt agree with my findings. I have summarised their 
main points below:
The medical history report isnt accurate. Ms C and Mr G say they didnt tell the vet 
that E was having seizures every 2-3 months. Ms C and Mr G werent aware until 
now what the medical notes said, because they didnt see what was written about E 
at the time.
The vet said the seizures werent related to any previous illness  and the vet said 
that the insurance should pay out.
Ms C and Mr G say they feel Acromas has decided to decline the claim because 
theyd only had their policy for a short period of time  and it didnt want to cover the 
costs for the treatment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, Im not upholding Ms C and Mr Gs complaint. I 
understand that they feel strongly about their complaint, but I cant fairly say that Acromas 
have treated them unfairly when it made the decision to decline their claim.
Ms C and Mr G havent provided me with any new points or additional information for me to 
consider. While I have thought carefully about what they said, Id already considered these 
things when I came to my provisional decision. 
I can understand Ms C and Mr Gs frustration if the vet has put inaccurate information on the 
medical notes. However, I dont think it was unfair of Acromas to rely on these notes to 
understand more about Es medical history. These notes were a summary of the 
conversations had at the time of the vet appointment, and so likely to be the most reliable 
evidence about Es health. It isnt the decision of the vet on whether an insurance policy should pay out or not. It is up to 
Acromas to make that decision based on its policy terms and conditions. For the reasons 
Ive already explained in my provisional findings, and I dont think Acromas unfairly declined 
the claim based on the policy wording.
I cant agree with Ms C and Mr Gs comments that Acromas declined to pay out on the claim 
because they hadnt had the policy for long. If Id have found any evidence that supported 
this, then I think it likely I would have found this to be unfair. But Ive already explained why I 
think its decision to decline the claim was a fair one. And I cant agree that the length of time 
Ms C and Mr G had the policy for played any part in this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms C and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman