DRN-3605566
The complaint
Mrs D and Ms D are unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim they 
made following damage caused by bad weather.
Mrs D has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to her only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs D got in touch with Ageas after she discovered damage to her garage roof during 
a period of high winds.
Ageas asked a surveyor, V, to inspect the damage. Based on an external inspection, 
they said the damage had been caused by wear and tear and not a storm.
Mrs D was unhappy with this. She had a quote from a roofer for £1,950 who thought 
the damage was storm related. She said V hadnt taken that into account, or 
inspected internally, despite being asked to. And when she provided internal photos 
to V, it didnt respond to her.
Ageas initially said the claim should be declined. It later accepted some of the roof 
damage has been caused by a storm. But it said some of the work quoted for by the 
roofer was to put right wear and tear. And it involved replacing the existing roof with a 
new covering that wasnt like-for-like. It made an offer of around £1,250 for the claim, 
before deduction of the excess.
After Mrs D referred her complaint to this service, Ageas offered £100 compensation 
for the way the claim had been handled.
Our investigator thought Ageas had reached a fair position by making an offer to 
settle the claim and to pay compensation. She noted Ageas was only required to pay 
for the damage caused by storm and not anything caused by wear and tear.
Mrs D didnt think Ageas offer was fair. She accepted there was a small area of wear 
and tear, but she didnt think this amounted to £700 of work. And she said the roof 
couldnt be replaced like-for-like because of its age.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds home insurance policy provides cover for, amongst other things, damage caused by 
storm. Ageas now accepts there was storm damage and has made an offer to settle the 
claim. In summary, the dispute is about the value of the claim settlement offer  and the way 
the claim was handled.
Claim settlement
I think theres been a misunderstanding in the reasoning behind Ageas offer. Its not valuing 
the wear and tear at £700. Instead, V estimated how much it would cost it to carry out the 
work to repair the storm damage, like-for-like, and that came to £1,250. Some of the 
difference between this amount and Mrs Ds quote will be for wear and tear. But not all of it.
Some will be because Mrs Ds quote is for a roof which isnt like-for-like. And some may be 
the result of V charging different rates for repairing the storm damage than the roofer. 
Insurers often have rates with their network of agents that are more favourable than the 
open market.
Ageas has pointed to a policy term about claim settlement. In summary, it says Ageas will 
decide whether to settle the claim by repairing damage or paying the cash equivalent. It 
notes the cash value will be based on what it would cost Ageas to do the work. This kind of 
term is common amongst buildings insurance, so its not unusual.
When settling a claim for damage, Id generally expect the insurer to offer to carry out the 
work or pay the cost to the consumer of having it done. That ensures the consumer doesnt 
lose out where insurers can access rates more favourable than the open market. However, 
there may be times where that general approach isnt appropriate. I think this is one of those 
times and Ill explain why.
Ageas didnt offer to do the work. It says this is because it would have been unable to carry it 
out effectively given the wear and tear and the condition of neighbouring roofs. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, including photos, Im persuaded this is likely to be the case. It doesnt 
appear the storm damage could be repaired in isolation. And I dont think the need to put 
right the other damage has come about as a result of the storm  it was likely already there.
Because of this, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Ageas to pay Mrs D what it would have 
cost V to repair the storm damage. I recognise that leaves her with a shortfall to make up. 
But overall, I think Ageas treated her fairly by accepting there was some storm damage to 
the roof and making a cash offer.
Claim handling
Ageas has conceded Vs initial decision to decline the claim was incorrect. It also agreed 
with Mrs D that the way V handled things caused an avoidable delay. I think it also added 
unnecessarily to the inconvenience caused to Mrs D.
Its disappointing to see Ageas noted the shortcomings in the service provided when 
responding to Mrs Ds complaint but didnt offer any compensation. But once prompted by 
our investigator, it did so.
Overall, Im satisfied £100 is reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 James Neville
Ombudsman