DRN-4365712
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) failed to stop payments made to a merchant 
for gambling or reach out to help despite knowing he had a gambling problem. 
What happened
Mr S held an account with Monzo and had activated a gambling block on his account. On 7 
July 2022 Mr S complained to Monzo regarding gambling payments hed made through an 
online banking payment provider. Monzo explained that as the payments were made by 
open banking faster payment transfer it couldnt identify the end recipient of the payments  
so couldnt know the payments were for gambling and block them.
Monzo confirmed this information to Mr S and how gambling blocks work on 9 July 2022. In 
the message Monzo explained that gambling blocks work by blocking transactions that have 
been identified by a merchant category code associated with gambling. The codes are 
assigned by the merchants themselves and sometimes customers are able to complete 
gambling transactions with companies that havent been correctly identified as gambling 
merchants due to their merchant category codes not being categorized correctly. In cases 
such as these Monzo wouldnt have any way of knowing that the transactions were for 
gambling.  
Monzo further explained that to combat this it could add merchants to its gambling block 
manually if notified about them and that this usually takes effect within two weeks.
Between 28 January and 25 February 2023 Mr S made numerous faster payments totalling 
£2,170 to a merchant (not categorized as a gambling merchant) from his account with 
Monzo. 
Mr S attempted to raise a complaint regarding these payments to Monzo on 25 February but 
had difficulties with Monzos ID requests. Mr S was also unhappy as he says he asked 
Monzo to review his previous complaint on numerous occasions but didnt hear back. 
On 27 February Mr S successfully logged a complaint about these issues with Monzo and a 
manager from Monzo got in touch two days later. Following this Mr S received a message 
from Monzo on 5 March apologising for the delay in getting back to Mr S and confirming that 
he would like to block future payments to the merchant in question and that it would put this 
in place and let him know when this was done.
Despite chasing Mr S didnt receive an update regarding this or a response to his complaint, 
he referred the matter to this service. Following this, on 9 May, Monzo issued its final 
response and confirmed that it had blocked the payments to the merchant, but recognised 
that there had been delays and it hadnt responded to all his complaints. It offered Mr S £115 
compensation for this but as the payments to the merchant in questions were made by faster 
payment and not able to be picked up by the gambling block, it would not reimburse Mr S for 
any of the transactions. 
Monzo subsequently increased the offer of compensation to £150. 
Our investigator looked at all of this and thought that Monzo had made it clear to Mr S that 
the gambling block only covers card transactions (not bank transfers) with certain merchant 
codes and that the block may not work if a company doesnt disclose theyre a gambling 
merchant. They thought Monzo had applied the gambling block fairly in line with its process 
and as such didnt think Monzo should refund the gambling transactions. They thought the 
£150 was a fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S by the 
delays in dealing with his complaint. 
Mr S was dis-satisfied with this. He doesnt believe he has been helped as a vulnerable 
customer as he was allowed to spend over £2,000 in a month and Monzo didnt reach out or 
block the transactions to ask if they were suspicious. Mr S wants Monzo to refund 50% of 
the transactions and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And as such the 
focus of my decision will be on whether Monzo shouldve done more to support Mr S and 
block the gambling transactions that took place between 28 January and 25 February. 
Having considered everything I dont think it was unfair that Monzo didnt do more to stop 
payments to this merchant for the period in question. 
While I wouldnt tell Monzo what tools it needs to have in place to support customers with a 
gambling addiction, I would expect it to utilize the tools it does have and make the customer 
aware of what it can do to assist. 
Nothing is fool proof and in Mr Ss case, Monzo made him aware of the limitations of the 
gambling block as well as the potential solutions for this. I think Mr S understood that the 
gambling block wasnt working regarding this merchant but waited a month before informing 
Monzo about this and that there was a problem. 
So I dont think Monzo should be penalised for the limitations of the gambling block which 
were out of its control. And not being able to easily block all gambling transactions made by 
online banking transfers or otherwise, is not an error on Monzos part. It simply isnt possible.
Mr S says hed never used this merchant before and believes the activity on his account 
alone shouldve been enough for the transactions to be flagged and for Monzo to have taken 
proactive measures to safeguard his welfare.
Monzo says it has systems in place to try to pick up suspicious or out of character 
transactions that might be fraudulent but that its fraud prevention system didnt record 
anything of concern. The transactions to the merchant were made for various relatively small 
amounts over different days. 
And having reviewed the transactions on the account prior to January 2023 I can see that Mr 
S may not have used this merchant before, but he had previously made the same types of 
faster payment transactions for similar amounts. So Im satisfied there wasnt enough to 
indicate to Monzo that these types of payments were a concern or unusual for Mr S and that 
it shouldve stepped in. And I dont believe it would be reasonable for Monzo to be expected to monitor every individual transaction on a customers account because it had been made 
aware of a gambling problem. 
So although I sympathise with Mr S and the struggles he has with gambling addiction, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Monzo to refund him for the money he spent.
However, I do accept that Monzos service couldve been better and that there was around a 
three month delay in applying the block and Monzo failed to respond to Mr S in a timely 
matter regarding his complaints. But as Mr S made no payments to the merchant during this 
time and I cant see that Mr S has lost out financially because of this, Im in agreement with 
our investigator that the compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
a fair way to settle Mr Ss complaint and I do not think further compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided what Monzo Bank Ltd has already done to put 
things right for Mr S is a fair and reasonable outcome and Im not going to ask it to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman