DRN-3235235
The complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wont refund transactions she 
didnt authorise. 
What happened
In November 2020, Mrs C received a call from someone claiming to be from Amazon. They 
said theyd accidentally taken a payment from her account. And they needed her to provide 
a code from her first direct secure key to refund it. 
Mrs C says she regularly shops with Amazon, and the caller didnt ask for her other bank 
details. So she trusted it was legitimate and gave them the code as instructed. The caller 
said the first code didnt work, so she generated a new one. But she became suspicious as 
they kept telling her it wasnt working, and to not turn her computer off. She ended the call, 
turned off her computer, and phoned first direct to explain what had happened. 
Mrs C says it took around twenty minutes to get through to first direct. It locked her account 
and told her shed receive a call from the fraud department over the next few days. But this 
didnt happen. She then received a letter confirming payments of £6,549.32, £7,876.31 and 
£6,987.21 had been taken on the day of the call. These were all international payments 
made to the same recipient, preceded by an internal transfer from Mrs Cs savings account. 
When Mrs C tried to call back to dispute these transactions, she says she couldnt get 
through due to the wait times. And when she did, she found out the account was still locked. 
First direct apologised for the service, but held Mrs C liable for the payments.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs C had completed the necessary steps to authorise the 
payments. Nor did they think sharing the code meant shed been grossly negligent  or 
intentionally put her account at risk. They upheld the complaint and recommended that first 
direct should refund the payments, with interest, and pay £100 for the poor service.
At first directs request, this case has been escalated to me for a final decision. Its agreed to 
the £100 compensation  but considers it unfair to be held liable for the financial loss. It says 
this was caused by Mrs Cs negligence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Did Mrs C authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs C isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. 
First directs most recent response  that it holds Mrs C liable due to negligence  suggests 
it may now accept that the payments werent authorised. Im satisfied thats correct. 
Theres no dispute the payments were properly authenticated via Mrs Cs online banking. 
But to be authorised, the PSRs also require her to have consented to the payments. They 
also set out how consent is given; its not open to interpretation. It must be given in the form, 
and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between Mrs C and first direct. 
Based on first directs submissions, and the explanation set out by the investigator in their 
view (which hasnt been questioned or contradicted), I understand the following steps were 
required for Mrs C to have consented to these payments  including giving someone 
permission to carry out these steps on her behalf:
- Log into her online banking. To do this, I understand Mrs C  or someone acting on 
her behalf  would need to enter her username, a secure key code, and the answer 
to her memorable question.  
- Enter the payment information for the intended beneficiary for each payment. 
- For the first payment, as this was a new payment destination, I understand it also 
required for a secure key code to be generated and entered. But the next two 
payments wouldnt have required this additional step. 
Mrs C admits she generated and shared a secure key code a couple of times. But she didnt 
do this to get a refund, not to allow the caller to make payments. And the complaint summary 
first direct sent us sets out that the caller seemed to have obtained Mrs Cs online banking 
username and the answer to her memorable question to then allow them to log on to her 
Online Banking with the [secure key] code Mrs C provided. Theres no suggestion she 
knowingly disclosed her username and memorable question to give the caller access to her 
online banking. We know that scammers often have ways of obtaining these kind of details, 
including asking unsuspecting questions to trick the consumer to reveal this information. 
I consider it clear that neither Mrs C, nor someone with her permission, completed all the 
steps required to have consented to the payments  meaning theyre unauthorised.
Did Mrs C fail with intent?
As Mrs C shared the secure key codes, she failed to keep her security details safe. But I 
dont think she did so intentionally. She shared the codes to receive a refund, not realising it 
would compromise the safety of her account and allow the caller to make transactions. So 
Im satisfied she didnt fail with intent. 
Did Mrs C fail with gross negligence?
First direct says that, by sharing her secure key codes, Mrs C was negligent and should 
therefore be held liable. But Im not persuaded that, in sharing the codes, Mrs C was grossly 
negligent. The standard for that is whether she was significantly careless; whether she acted 
so far below what a reasonable person would have done; or seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk.In the circumstances, I can see what Mrs C didnt immediately realise it was a scam. The 
caller seemed more plausible as she often shopped with Amazon, and as they already knew 
some of her details. As Mrs C told first direct at the time, she didnt think it was fraud as the 
caller didnt ask for her banking details (e.g. her sort code and account number)  so she 
didnt think there was a risk they were taking money. 
Mrs C reasonably identified the risk when the caller repeatedly told her the code wasnt 
working, and kept telling her not to turn off her computer. But I dont think that, in being 
convinced by the call to share the codes initially, her actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person would have done. In the circumstances, whilst she failed to keep her 
security details safe, I dont think she failed with gross negligence. 
I therefore consider first direct liable for these payments. The investigator also awarded £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way the claim was handled. Neither side 
disputes that the service was poor at times, or that £100 is a fair reflection of the impact this 
had on Mrs C. So I agree with this level of compensation. 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund Mrs C for these three unauthorised transactions, totalling 
£21,412.84. As these funds were transferred from her savings account, that account interest 
rate should be applied to this amount  from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
HSBC should also pay Mrs C £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman