DRN-2895527
The complaint
Mr P says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr P took out a guarantor loan from TFS in December 2015. It was for £7,500 over 60
months. The monthly repayment was £270.25 and the total repayable was £16755.
Mr P says he was given a loan he couldnt afford. TFS should have seen that his debt
problems were getting worse from his credit report.
.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said it was clear from
Mr Ps credit history that it was unlikely he would be able to sustainably repay the loan.
TFS disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a final
decision.  I reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator but relied on additional evidence 
and made new findings. I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to comment or 
provide further evidence before a final decision was reached. 
An extract from the provisional decision follows and form part of this final decision.
TFS asked for some information from Mr P before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It checked his
declared income against a recent payslip and used an income verification tool. It checked his
credit file to understand his credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which
was primarily to repay his debt management plan and another loan. From these checks
combined TFS concluded Mr P had sufficient monthly disposable income for the loan to be
affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mr P was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from TFS. He was entering into a long-term commitment and
would need to make monthly repayments for five years. So I would expect that TFS would
want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about Mr Ps financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. And as our adjudicator set out in detail, Mr Ps
credit file suggested Mr P was having problems managing his money  he had continued to
borrow - and defaulted on two accounts - whilst in a debt management plan and there were
indications that his previous attempts to consolidate debts had failed. So, in the round, I think
it would have been proportionate for TFS to independently check the actual state of Mr Ps
finances before agreeing the loan.
This means I need to look at what proportionate checks would most likely have shown TFS
and consider if it ought to have realised that there was a risk Mr P couldnt sustainably afford
the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Ps bank statements. This is one way TFS could have gathered the
information I think it needed on Mr Ps financial situation. From the statements it is clear
Mr P was having problems managing his money  supporting the conclusion the adjudicator
had reached.
In the three months prior to this loan application Mr P spent in excess of his monthly income,
each month, on gambling. And he had already taken out loans totalling £5,500 with at other
high-cost lenders in the month of this loan application. So I think that if TFS had completed
proportionate checks, it would have realised this loan was most likely not sustainably
affordable for Mr P. And as a responsible lender it would have decided not to approve his
application.
I have also looked at whether TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I
havent found any evidence that it did.
Mr P responded saying he didnt need to add anything. TFS did not respond to my 
provisional decision. It had previously confirmed it would if it had any additional points to 
make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here. 
As neither party submitted any new evidence or comments, I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
It follows I am upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
 Its reasonable for Mr P to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS will need to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr P
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ps loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr P a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ps complaint and TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman