DRN-3694797
The complaint
Ms L complains that Giving.com Limited unfairly closed the account she had with it and 
returned the donations to the sponsors.
What happened
In April 2020, Ms L set up a donation page with Giving.com to receive money from sponsors. 
The sponsors made donations into this account and in June 2020, Ms L contacted 
Giving.com to ask for these funds to be released. But after this, some of the sponsors 
contacted her to say that their donations had been refunded.
Ms L asked Giving.com why this had happened. It explained that because Ms L hadnt 
added bank account details to her profile within the timeframe it required, the funds had 
been returned. Ms L wasnt happy about this though and complained. She said that she 
wasnt made aware, at any point, of the requirement to add an account in this way or within 
specific timescales.
Giving.com responded, saying that it was in the terms and conditions of Ms Ls account that 
she needed to add bank account details. It tried to contact her by email about this, but those 
emails bounced back due to problems it had previously with sending Ms L emails. It also 
added that even if Ms L hadnt received those emails, there were a number of reminders on 
her donation page that would have told her that she needed to add these details and that 
there was a time limit for doing so.
Ms L wasnt happy with this response so brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt 
think that Giving.com could be held responsible for what happened here though. After some 
back and forth with Ms L and Giving.com, they concluded that Giving.com could have done 
more to contact Ms L about the issue and that there were some small inconsistencies in 
some of the evidence. But they said that overall, Giving.com had shown that Ms L would 
have been aware of the need to add bank account details from the information available on 
the page.
Ms L disagreed and provided substantial evidence to support her case, but our investigator 
didnt change their mind and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman to reach a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that my summary of this complaint here is quite brief. But Id like to reassure Ms L 
that in reaching my decision here, Ive carefully considered everything shes said and sent 
us, alongside what Giving.com have provided too. If I havent referred to anything in 
particular, thats not because I havent considered it  it just means that I havent needed to 
refer to it in reaching a fair and reasonable decision. Thats in line with our quick and 
informal role as a service.
Essentially, the question I need to answer here is whether Giving.com made it reasonably 
clear to Ms L that she needed to add bank account details to her page, before it was closed 
and the donations returned. The starting point for considering this is what the terms and 
conditions of the account say about this:
Pay out by bank transfer to your bank account, or by any other payment method that 
you have selected via the Website, provided that you have passed identity 
verification and other necessary checks. If you do not pass these checks within 30 
days from your first donation all funds received will be refunded and your page will be 
taken down. If funds are unable to be refunded, they may be redirected to a 
registered charity at JustGivings discretion.  JustGiving may allow an additional 30 
days to verify your identity and bank account ownership
So the terms explain that identity verification and other necessary checks will be needed and 
within the timeframes mentioned. They also mention that Giving.com may need to allow time 
for a customer to verify bank account ownership.
But the terms themselves dont specifically mention what checks will be done or what 
information will be needed. So Id expect Giving.com to have made the need for Ms Ls bank 
account details reasonably clear elsewhere and to have given it due prominence. One way 
of doing this would have been to have contacted her directly about this issue. Giving.com 
says it tried to do this using email  but that the emails bounced back. Im not persuaded by 
its arguments or evidence in this respect though.
The evidence Giving.com has sent in relation to the emails suggests that this may have 
been a problem with Ms Ls email address for some time. In which case its not clear why 
Giving.com kept using this method to communicate with her. Ms L has also provided 
evidence of successfully delivered emails from Giving.com too. So Im not persuaded by 
what its said in respect of the emails here.
But, even though Im satisfied Giving.com could have done more to communicate with her in 
respect of the emails  it has also said that the information provided to Ms L on her donation 
page would have made it clear that she needed to add bank account details within the 
relevant timeframe too. Ms L was clearly using her page and so I need to now consider 
whether the information given to her on this page would have made her aware of what she 
needed to do.
It's around this point that the information available to me is incomplete, inconclusive and 
contradictory. In these circumstances, what I have to do is weigh up what both sides have 
provided and decide whats more likely than not to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities.
The main problem with the evidence from both sides here is that neither party can provide 
information that shows exactly what Ms L saw at the time her page was open, now that this 
particular account and page have been closed. Ms L has provided us with a series of 
screenshots, which showed what she saw after her page was closed and what happened 
with a later page she set up. Giving.com has provided screenshots of its processes and 
screens which show what it says Ms L would have seen.
On balance here, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that Giving.com did give Ms L 
reasonable notification about the need for bank account details though. I say this because 
Giving.com has sent us extracts from the opening process to set up a donation page. So when Ms L opened this page she would have been shown a message that shed need to 
add a UK personal current account to withdraw donations. Ms L says she didnt see how 
this was relevant, but that message is quite clear.
So while opening the page, Ms L was made aware that she needed to add a bank account. 
She may have thought that this didnt apply to her and assumed that she didnt need to do 
so, but thats not something I think is fair to hold Giving.com liable for here, where it did 
make Ms L aware of the need for this. 
This was early on in the process of having an account, but it wasnt the only notification that 
Giving.com says Ms L would have been given. Both Giving.com and Ms L have provided a 
screenshot of the same message. This message says Its time to add your bank details 
and under it, that this task had 30 days left. Giving.com says that this would have had an 
ongoing countdown timer in relation to the 30 days too.
Ms L says she only saw this reminder on setting up her new account and it wasnt easy to 
find. Giving.com says that she would have seen it in her pages admin area. On balance, the 
evidence Giving.com has provided shows that this notification would be clearly shown as a 
part of a standard donation page. It seems from what Giving.com and Ms L have said here 
that her account was opened in line with Giving.coms usual processes and so I think its 
more likely than not that this would have been shown to her too.
Ms L says that it wasnt given due prominence on the page and that Giving.coms evidence 
shows that there are inconsistencies in how and when it is displayed. But regardless of 
exactly where it was placed on the page or at what part of the process, Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not that this notification would have been reasonably clear to her from the 
evidence Ive been provided. And Ive seen that the notification is shown across different 
types of devices too  such as both phones and computer screens.
I realise that Ms L has said that she assumed things were all ok with her account where 
shed already added a bank card to her account and saw a tick in relation to verification on 
her account. But that card and that tick werent relevant to the fact that she needed to add 
her bank account details in the circumstances here.
So, taking everything into consideration here, I think its more likely than not that Giving.com 
did enough to made Ms L reasonably aware that she needed to add these details through 
the information available to her on her donation page. The terms then explain that the 
account would be closed and donations refunded if the account wasnt verified in time, which 
is what happened here. Given this, I think its fair that Giving.com closed the page and 
refunded the funds to the sponsors.
I realise that Ms L will disagree with this and will no doubt feel that Ive favoured 
Giving.coms evidence over hers. Shes provided a lot of evidence to try and show her side 
of things. I appreciate the efforts shes gone to, but I hope Ive explained why, in looking at 
this impartially and on balance Ive reached the findings I have here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
James StaplesOmbudsman