DRN-3403263
The complaint
Mr W complains The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited mis-sold him 
farm insurance.
What happened
In 2013 Mr W planted vines for a vineyard he was developing on his land. In late July 2018 
he took out an NFU Farm Select insurance policy. It was arranged by an NFU agent. About 
five days later he made a claim against the cover. About 3,000 vines; roughly one-quarter of 
the total, had been poisoned and killed off by a chemical used for weed control. He believes 
this was malicious damage. 
NFU didnt accept the claim. After some investigation it said Mr Ws policy didnt provide 
cover for his vines. It said he didnt have any cover for loss of earnings, or business 
interruption, cover either. Mr W complained NFU had mis-sold the policy. He said he had 
wanted his vines insured. He said NFU knew it was insuring a vineyard, so his policy should 
cover its vines. 
In May 2020 NFU responded to the complaint. It denied any mis-sale. It said policy 
information provided to Mr W had confirmed the insured activities excluded wine production. 
It explained Mr W had, when arranging the cover, asked only for his machinery and vehicles 
to be insured. NFU also said insuring the vineyard business had been discussed, but Mr W 
had declined that type of cover. So it continued to refuse to cover the loss. NFU did 
apologise for failing to manage Mr Ws expectations during the claim  and not concluding it 
sooner.
Mr W wasnt satisfied so in July 2020 he came to this service. He complains the policy 
wasnt suitable for the needs of his vineyard. He feels policy documentation was misleading. 
He denies only wanting cover for his winemaking equipment and agricultural machinery  he 
says he also wanted his vineyard, including its vines, to be insured. 
In November 2021 our investigator provided her opinion. She felt NFU had mis-sold the 
policy by failing to recommend Mr W suitable cover. She said it should have recommended a 
policy that included business interruption cover. She felt this was required for the vines, an 
important part of his business, to be covered. She said Mr W recognised the importance of 
the vines, so would have agreed to insure them. To put things right, she said NFU should 
reconsider Mr Ws claim as though he has business interruption cover.   
Mr W accepted that outcome, but NFU didnt. It said Mr W hadnt wanted to insure the 
business - having declined business interruption cover. It said it was clear that when taking 
out the policy, Mr W had only wanted cover for his vineyard equipment and vehicles. So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My reasoning in it forms part of this final 
decision, so Ive copied it in below. It explains why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In 
summary - I said it was at least arguable NFU did fail to take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of its advice regarding insurance for the vines. 
I explained why I wasnt persuaded, had NFU recommended cover for them, that Mr W 
would have taken it out. I also invited Mr W and NFU to provide any further evidence or 
comments they would like me to consider before I made a final decision. NFU had nothing to 
add. Mr W provided comments and documentation for me to consider. 
What Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The focus of Mr Ws correspondence with this service has been on the sale of the 
policy - rather than NFUs decision on his claim. For that reason I havent considered 
if its decline was fair and reasonable. Ive instead considered only the sale of the 
cover.      
There seems to have been a misunderstanding during the claim and complaint about 
the type of cover required for Mr Ws vines to have been insured against loss or 
damage. Business interruption has been referred to. That typically insures against 
income lost due to an insured event. It wouldnt usually cover the loss or damage to 
an item itself, for example vines or other stock.  NFUs underwriters explained vines 
would be covered as stock. 
Mr Ws confirmed NFU did, during the 2018 sale, discuss business interruption with 
him. Hes said it wasnt necessary for the vineyard at that stage of its development. It 
would only be appropriate once he began to run the vineyard as a business 
producing and selling wine.  
NFU provided an advised sale to Mr W. It recommended the cover he accepted. 
When doing so it was required to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its 
advice. NFUs current position is it didnt get anything wrong during the sale.  
NFUs underwriters provided thoughts on the actions of its agent that arranged and 
sold Mr Ws policy. It said:
yes, the agency should definitely have asked the client if they want to 
insure vines and business interruption. These are considerable exposures 
due to the fact it takes a considerable amount of time for the vines to bed in 
so damage to the vines, even when the vineyard is not producing yet, can 
have substantial knock on effects and we are able to cover this. 
It seems to be accepted by Mr W and NFU that business interruption cover was 
discussed, with Mr W declining it. But I havent seen anything to support it having 
asked him if he wanted to ensure his vines. Neither have I seen that it recommended 
he do so. 
With its own underwriters comments in mind, I think its at least arguable NFU did fail 
to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. But I havent decided 
on that either way. If I did it wouldnt change my current position on the outcome of 
the complaint. Ill explain why.
When this service decides a business has made a mistake, we go on to consider if 
the customer lost out as a result. That often means asking what would have 
happened differently if the mistake hadnt happened. For this complaint it requires me 
to decide what would most likely have happened if NFU had instead recommended a policy insuring, not just the vineyard equipment and vehicles, but also the vines as 
stock. For me to say there was a mis-sale, Id need to think Mr W probably would 
have taken that additional cover. 
Ive considered everything Mr Ws said about the importance of insuring the vines. 
Hes explained how they are key to his business  and the long time for them to 
reach the maturity required for production. He thought his NFU policy did cover them. 
If NFU had made it clear its policy didnt provide cover he would have found 
alternative insurance that did. 
But having considered everything provided, particularly records of the sale and Mr 
Ws history of insurance for the vineyard, Im not persuaded he most likely would 
have taken out cover for his vines had NFU recommended it in 2018. 
Mr W planted the vines in 2013. Although immature I think its likely they were of 
importance to his developing business at that point and in the following years. But he 
didnt arrange any insurance for the vineyard until 2018. Mr Ws explanation to this 
service indicates the key driver for him deciding to arrange insurance for the first 
time, in 2018, was his investment in, and accumulation of, production equipment and 
machinery. 
In a 2018 sales call with NFU Mr Ws asked whats he looking for cover for. He 
explains he has a vineyard, that he has agricultural machinery and winery equipment 
he wants insured. When asked if its literally just the vehicles and all the kit he 
would like insured he replies with Just the tractor and the kit, not the business 
because. During that call and others around that time theres no reference from 
him of a desire or interest in insuring the vines.
Unfortunately the damage to the vines happened shortly after those calls in the 
summer of 2018. Mr W discovered his NFU policy didnt cover the vines by 
September 2018 at the latest. Three quarters of his vines, about 7,000 or so, were 
still healthy and unaffected  and remain so as far as Im aware. 
However, he didnt ensure they were covered by amending his NFU policy or finding 
an alternative provider. NFU says Mr W declined its offers, in September and 
November 2018, to review his policy and provide additional cover. In July 2019 Mr W 
renewed his NFU policy on the same terms as provided in 2018  in the knowledge 
the vines werent insured.     
After the second NFU policy lapsed in July 2020 Mr W didnt arrange any insurance 
for his vineyard. As far as Im aware he still hasnt. Hes shown he made enquiries in 
2020 about cover. Hes shown he was offered insurance covering the vines. But he 
didnt take out that policy or any other. 
So Mr W was without any cover at all from 2013 until 2018. He didnt arrange 
insurance for surviving vines after September 2018 and hasnt done so far. Hes 
given some explanation for this when asked about it. He accepted the renewal in 
2019 as he was waiting to hear what would happen with the claim. Improved security 
at the vineyard means hes less concerned about theft or damage. And he feels such 
an unusual event, like deliberate sabotage, is unlikely to happen to him again.
Ive given thought to Mr Ws explanations. But considering what Ive set out above, 
Im not persuaded insurance for his vines was or has been a priority for him. I think 
its likely any additional cover for the vines offered by NFU, in 2018, would have 
required an additional premium. Im not persuaded he most likely would have agreed to, and paid, for cover for his vines. So I dont currently intend to find that NFU mis-
sold his policy in July 2018. That means I dont plan to require it to reconsider his 
claim or do anything differently.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws provided a range of documents and comments. As this is an informal service I 
havent responded to everything point here. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the 
most significant and relevant. But I would like to reassure him and NFU that Ive considered 
everything provided. 
In his response Mr W said I had explained I wouldnt be taking a fair and reasonable 
approach to the complaint. He was referring to the first three lines of the reasoning of my 
provisional decision - as set out above. 
I would like to clarify my intention. It was to explain I wouldnt be considering if NFUs 
decision on the claim itself was fair and reasonable. By that I mean I wont be asking if its 
decision not to pay the claim under the policy terms, that were in place, was fair and 
reasonable. Instead I will only be considering if what happened, in relation to the sale of the 
policy, was fair and reasonable. Thats because the focus of Mr Ws complaint 
correspondence has been the sale, not the claim decision itself. If he would like that looked 
at by this service, he would need to first complain to NFU about its decision on the claim. 
I said I wasnt persuaded Mr W probably would have agreed to, and paid, for cover for his 
vines. In response Mr Ws said my role is to consider how the insurer acted. He says its not 
my place to prevaricate on his actions.   
In my provisional decision I explained that when this service decides a business has made a 
mistake, we go on to consider if the customer lost out as a result. I said that often means 
asking what would have happened differently if the mistake hadnt happened. I set out what 
that meant for this complaint. I must decide what would most likely have happened if NFU 
had recommended a policy insuring, not just the vineyard equipment and vehicles, but also 
the vines as stock. 
To do so I need to consider, on the balance of probabilities, if Mr W would have taken that 
additional cover if offered. That means considering his actions and comments. I cant stick to 
facts alone as Mr W feels I should. Instead I need to weigh up the available evidence to 
decide whats more likely to have happened. Mr W says he would have taken out the cover. 
Ive set out in my provisional decision why I wasnt persuaded, on balance, that he would 
have taken the additional cover if recommended. My discussion of those reasons isnt 
intended to be a criticism of Mr W or to be taken as commentary on his financial position. 
Instead I considered the circumstances around the sale, including the evidence of Mr Ws 
expressed requirements at the time. Ive thought about his history of insurance cover for the 
vines. Ive taken into account everything else provided, including his latest comments. But on 
balance I still cant say Mr W probably would have taken out cover for the vines had NFU 
recommended it. 
In my provisional decision I referred to Mr Ws actions regarding insurance provision for the 
vines following the unsuccessful claim. I accept those actions happened after the event, but 
they still provide an indication of how hes approached insuring the vines. Even if I discount this post event behaviour, Im still not persuaded Mr W would have taken out the additional 
cover if it had been offered in July 2018. 
Ive listened to Mr Ws recent comments on what he says about early 2018 discussions with 
NFU and what he wanted and understood to have been provided with at the time of the sale. 
But I still couldnt say on balance, considering his lack of cover for the vines before 2018, his 
comments in the available sales call recordings and his apparent driver for taking out cover 
at that time, that he probably would have taken out additional cover for vines had it been 
offered.    
In the provisional decision I referred to recordings of calls between Mr W and NFU. In the 
first two he explains his insurance needs. In a third he was agreeing to the terms offered by 
NFU. Ill refer to NFUs adviser in that call as H. These calls took place in late June 2018 and 
late July 2018.  
Mr W says there were other calls between him and NFU that would support his complaint. 
Hes referred to January or February 2018. Mr W feels H visited the vineyard around this 
time to assess its insurance needs. Hes referred to that visit in support of his position that 
NFU should have understood his need to insure the vines. Hes also said his insurance 
needs changed between these earlier discussions and the sale of the policy in July 2018.  
NFUs denied that any visit to Mr Ws vineyard took place before the policy was taken out. A 
demands and needs document supports the assessment of his insurance needs having 
taken place around 28 June 2018, rather than at the start of the year. The proposed policy 
start date recorded on the document is 29 June 2018.
In the third call Ive referred to H says to Mr W .who do you insure your home with, it 
sounds like quite a nice property. Mr Ws home is on the same site as the vineyard as far as 
Im aware. So H would likely have seen it had she had been given a tour of the site by Mr W 
as he says. If she had seen the property, I think its unlikely she would have used the phrase 
sounds like. Theres nothing else in the calls thats indicates any prior site visit had been 
made. 
In the second call, from late June 2018, NFU did suggest a site visit. Mr W declined that 
offer, saying he would be going on holiday. If there had been a previous visit by H I think he 
probably would have mentioned it in response to an offer of a further one.  
Overall Im not persuaded there was a visit to the vineyard by NFU prior to the sale of the 
policy. It did visit the vineyard as part of its complaint investigation. Its possible Mr W is 
recollecting that visit  or one from a different insurer.   
In addition Im not persuaded there were calls or discussions, in January or February 2018, 
between Mr W and NFU. If that had happened I think its likely he would have indicated it in 
the first call I refer to above. Instead it feels more like an initial discussion. Mr W sets out he 
has a vineyard and gives some detail of what he wants to insure, equipment he has etc. 
Theres no reference to H making an earlier visit, or prior discussions for example.  
My provisional decision referred to Mr W declining offers from NFU, in September and 
November 2018, to review his policy and provide additional cover. In response to his request 
he was provided with copies of the letters. He says he didnt receive them. 
I cant say for certain if he did receive them. They appear to be addressed correctly. I dont 
feel the lack of NFU branding is suspicious as Mr W seems to. A number of the letters NFUs 
provided for this complaint dont include a heading or NFU logo  these include a renewal 
cover and a policy cancellation letter. Sometimes letters are printed on headed paper, so a heading or logo wouldnt appear on a computer stored version. In any event Im persuaded, 
on balance, that they were sent to Mr W.
So having considered the latest information Im still not persuaded Mr W most likely would 
have agreed to cover for his vines if it had been recommended or offered. So I cant say 
NFU mis-sold the policy. That means I wont be requiring it to do anything differently.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman