DRN-2010693
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line for Business (UKI) 
handling of his claim for subsidence on his landlord insurance policy. 
Mr S has been represented during the claim by his wife, Mrs S. So, I will also refer to her 
within this decision. 
When I refer to UKI, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives. 
What happened
Mr S owned two houses  his residential house and another that he was trying to sell. In 
November 2017 a prospective buyer of the house pulled out as the survey showed some 
structural movement. Mrs S, on behalf of Mr S, logged a claim with UKI in early 
January 2018 for subsidence. 
UKI appointed an expert to deal with the claim. They felt that the damage had been caused 
by some defective drains close to the house, and they contacted the utility company 
responsible for the drains. It took some time for the utility company to respond and act, but 
the defective drains were repaired in October 2018.
However, while the utility company were looking into the problem UKI changed their expert 
and passed the handling of the claim to a new expert. The expert didnt ask the utility 
company if the repairs had been completed until March 2019. And they continued to cause 
delays throughout their handling of the claim. The repairs to the house only took three weeks 
but werent completed until December 2019, at which point Mr S was able to sell it. But 
during the claim he was unhappy with how it was progressing, and he complained to UKI in 
September 2019.
UKI upheld Mr S complaint. They accepted they had caused unnecessary delays amounting 
to around 35 weeks and paid Mr S £600 compensation for this. Mr S didnt accept. He said 
the delays had delayed his house sale which had resulted in him and his wife having to use 
their savings to continue to pay for the house while the claim was being dealt with. Mrs S 
was also expecting a baby, and the delays to the repairs to the house added to the stress 
being felt due to a reduction in the household income and the imminent arrival of their first 
child. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
the avoidable delays of around 35 weeks had been spread across four separate occasions, 
which had added to the inconvenience caused to Mr S. She also said that UKIs expert 
hadnt kept Mr or Mrs S updated with the progress of the claim and it was only Mrs S 
persistence by email and phone that kept the claim on track. Our investigator pointed out 
that Mr S had used the family savings to pay bills relevant to the damaged house and was 
looking to borrow funds from family members to continue to be able to cover the associated 
costs. She said that the repairs to the house only took three weeks, so its likely that the 
house could have been sold sooner had the delays not been caused. She asked UKI to pay 
Mr S an additional £600 compensation  making the compensation £1,200 in total. 
UKI didnt accept. They said that the compensation already paid had taken into account the 
inconvenience caused to Mr S by the delays. 
As UKI didnt accept, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accept that Mr S had a valid claim. And they also accept that they have caused 
significant delays throughout the handling of the claim. Nine months have been lost due to 
the delays from UKI. So, all I need to decide is whether UKIs award of £600 compensation 
to Mr S is reasonable. And in this case, I dont think it is. Ill explain why.
The damage to Mr S house only came to light during a survey following a prospective sale 
in November 2017. So, its clear that any savings that Mr and Mrs S had accrued hadnt 
been saved for the intention of paying for a second house. He was actively trying to sell it. 
And theres no doubt that UKIs delays in dealing with the claim have severely impacted 
Mr S plans for his family and the use of his savings. Instead of being able to use those 
savings for his familys stability, he has had the upset of worrying about how he can accrue 
those savings again now the majority have been spent maintaining an unwanted house for 
an extended length of time. 
Although the discovery of subsidence would have no doubt delayed Mr S plans, the 
additional time added to this by UKI have clearly had a big impact on the amount of time this 
took to resolve. And therefore, the length of time Mr S had to continue to spend money on 
the house.
I also have to consider the fact that the house sold quickly after the repairs had been 
completed in December 2019. Whilst I cant know if the house would have sold as quickly 
had the repairs been completed sooner, I think its likely that it would have. Mr S had 
previously had a prospective buyer in November 2017, and he sold the house within a 
couple of weeks of the repairs being completed in December 2019. Mr S was selling to a 
local housing association, who would have wanted the sale to go through quickly. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr S house was desirable to prospective buyers. 
Even taking into account the need for the house to be monitored following the drain repairs 
in November 2018, its clear that the house repairs should have started and been completed 
much sooner than they were. And, whilst I cant say how much Mr S has lost financially as a 
result of UKIs delays and having to continue to make payments towards the house, Im 
satisfied that him and his family have lost out as a result of UKIs continued delays. That, 
coupled with the stress and worry caused to Mr S while the claim was not being progressed 
mean that Im satisfied UKI should pay more compensation. And I agree with the amount 
recommended by our investigator  UKI should pay Mr S an additional £600, bringing the 
total amount of compensation to £1,200.My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct 
Line for Business must:
Pay Mr S an additional £600 compensation for the stress and worry caused to him by 
the lengthy delays in the handling of the claim. This brings the total compensation to 
Mr S to £1,200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman