DRN-2102508
The complaint
Miss D complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc (which Ill refer to as STB) wrongly applied a 
default to her credit file.
What happened
In November 2017 Miss D entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with STB for the 
supply of a car. Under the agreement, monthly payments of £197.19 were due. Miss D was 
involved in an accident in which the car was written off; in November 2018 her insurers 
contacted STB for a settlement figure for the hire purchase agreement.  
The insurers made a payment to STB, but it wasnt enough to settle the agreement in full. 
Miss D had however taken out GAP insurance to cover any difference between the 
settlement figure and any amount received under her car insurance. In the meantime, 
however, STB said that Miss D would need to make one further monthly payment of £197.19 
 the same as the original monthly payments  followed by 47 payments of £17.75 and a 
final payment of £27.65. 
The payment of £197.19 was, however, returned unpaid. Miss D explained that she couldnt 
afford to make that payment as a single payment, and STB agreed to accept it over three 
months  in addition to the revised figure of £17.75. 
A payment under the new arrangement was due on 2 January 2019, but no payment was 
made, increasing the arrears due. STB issued a notice of sums in arrears and invited Miss D 
to get in touch. Miss D made some payments, but not in line with the revised agreement, and 
so STB ended the agreement. This meant that the full amount outstanding under the 
agreement became payable. In May 2019 STB sold the debt to a third party. 
Miss D said she hadnt received correspondence from STB  in particular the default notice. 
She says it was unfair that STB registered a default, noting that the new owner of the debt 
had also done so. STB agreed that, once it sold the debt, it should have noted that on its 
own records. It agreed to make an appropriate amendment and offered Miss D £140 in 
recognition of its error. Miss D didnt think that went far enough, however, and referred the 
matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but concluded that STB hadnt 
treated Miss D unfairly. She noted that Miss D hadnt made payments as agreed and that 
correspondence had been sent to her home address; STB had therefore done enough to 
make her aware of the likelihood of default. Miss D didnt accept the investigators view and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons. Its unfortunate that the car insurance didnt pay off the amount due 
under the hire purchase in full and that the GAP insurance didnt cover the shortfall at the 
time it was needed. That wasnt however the fault of STB.
Its true as well that Miss D made attempts to make up the shortfall, but the payments she 
made at the end of 2018 and in early 2019 didnt cover what was needed or what shed 
agreed to pay. In the circumstances, STB was entitled to register the default and end the 
agreement. 
Miss D says she didnt receive notices from STB, but I can see that they were sent to the 
address on the hire purchase agreement. I dont accept the suggestion that those notices 
were reconstructed after the event; theres no evidence to support that, and I think it more 
likely that they were both sent and safely delivered. In any event, Miss D knew what 
payments she had to make. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that STBs offer to resolve the complaint is 
fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Secure Trust Bank Plc to do anything further to 
resolve Miss Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman