DRN-1463810
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society deleted information from his bank account 
without his consent. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr C complained to Nationwide after he found some of his payees account 
information had been deleted from his online banking facility. Nationwide responded on 15 
March 2019 but didn't agree it had made a mistake. Nationwide explained that the 
information had been deleted as part of its process to remove information about non regular 
payees. Nationwide was able to retrieve some of the data it deleted but Mr C says some of 
the payee information wasnt recovered. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr C again on 14 May 2019 but refused to provide more information 
about its policy regarding deleting data, explaining its commercially sensitive. As Mr C 
remained unhappy with the response he referred his concerns to our service. Mr C told us 
he was concerned he had been hacked. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint but thought Nationwide had treated him fairly. Mr 
C said he thought Nationwide should have done more to notify him of its intention to delete 
his data. Mr C also said he was sure Nationwide had deleted information about active 
payees while leaving a payee he had never used in place. Mr C asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background to this case as all parties broadly 
agree concerning the timeline and key events. Instead Ill focus on setting out the reasons 
for my decision. 
I understand Mr C has genuine concerns that Nationwide deleted payee information without 
checking with him first. But Nationwide has explained that it regularly reviews accounts and 
decides whether to delete information. Our investigator gave Mr C details from the 
Information Commissioners Office that sets out how businesses should treat data they hold. 
The investigator also talked about the 13 month dormancy period for direct debits and other 
automated payments. I wont quote the information again. But Im satisfied the investigator 
set out the general principals Nationwide says it used to decide whether to delete 
information from Mr Cs account. 
Nationwide is free to decide how it treats confidential information. I know Mr C wants a more 
detailed picture of Nationwides data retention policies, but I wouldnt expect a business to 
provide commercially sensitive information of that nature as it could leave it open to abuse. 
Nationwide has told this service how it reviews accounts and when it deletes payee information. Im satisfied that Nationwide acted in accordance with its normal process when 
it deleted payee information from Mr Cs account in March 2019. 
Mr C complains that Nationwide wasnt able to retrieve all the information it deleted. But 
Nationwide has confirmed it has retrieved everything it can and Im satisfied thats the case. 
Nationwide says it only deleted old payee information that hadnt been used for an extended 
period of time. I havent seen any evidence to show that wasnt the case. 
When Mr C initially responded to our investigator he said Nationwide had deleted active 
payees as well as dormant ones. But Mr C hasnt subsequently given any further information 
about active payees, despite providing additional comments and responses for me to 
consider. As Mr C hasnt specified any active payees or provided any evidence, I have no 
grounds to say Nationwide made an error. 
I understand Mr C was concerned about his account security after he found payee 
information had been deleted. But Nationwide hadn't made a mistake by taking that step and 
Mr C was able check with the business to find out what happened. Ive reviewed all the 
information provided by Mr C and Nationwide. Having done so, I havent been persuaded to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman