DRN-3832756
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd held him liable for cash which he says did not 
dispense.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr E requested £400 from a cash machine. He explained that the last note 
which dispensed came out skewed sideways, and the last £20 did not dispense at all. So he 
found hed only been given £380 when both he and the nearby shop owner counted it.
Mr E reported this to Monzo on the same day. Monzo tried a chargeback, and when it wasnt 
successful it held Mr E liable for the £20 he said was missing.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They asked Monzo for further evidence to 
show what really happened. But Monzo refused to gather it, saying it had already followed 
the guidelines for the chargeback scheme. Our investigator upheld the complaint.
Monzo asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
I sent Mr E and Monzo a provisional decision on 15 November 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Monzos arguments have been based primarily on MasterCards chargeback scheme rules. 
But MasterCard are not deciding this complaint, we are. And we are not bound by the 
chargeback scheme rules. Chargebacks are just a voluntary scheme, and are just one 
possible way a bank can try to get a customers money back.
As Monzo should know, we look at cases based on the relevant laws and regulations  the 
most relevant here being the Payment Services Regulations. These require that Monzo 
prove the disputed withdrawal was executed properly and was not affected by any technical 
breakdown or other deficiency  i.e. that it dispensed fully and correctly, not just that it 
debited the account successfully. And of course, we ultimately look at cases based on what 
is fair and reasonable. Under those considerations, Monzo must be able to show that it was 
entitled to debit the full £400 from Mr Es account, otherwise it cannot fairly hold him liable 
for it all. I would also remind Monzo that under the Financial Services and Markets Act, it is 
required to provide the specified evidence we consider necessary.
So with the above in mind, the chargeback scheme rules are not really relevant here.
Monzo has provided a journal roll for the ATM, showing that £400 was requested and that 
the transaction was authenticated. But contrary to what Monzo has argued, it does not 
appear to show what notes were actually dispensed, only the amount that was requested. It 
also does not appear to specify what errors there were either way. Its main focus seems to 
be on the authentication and cryptography, rather than what was or was not dispensed. And 
its notable that the codes in Mr Es withdrawal differ significantly from the successful 
withdrawals before and after  which tends to indicate that something may have gone wrong 
with Mr Es transaction. So this journal roll does not satisfy me that the transaction executed 
correctly, nor that Monzo was entitled to hold Mr E liable for the full amount.
The other evidence weve asked for is standard evidence that other businesses do not have 
such issues providing. Monzo indicated it may have its own difficulties gathering it, as its not 
signed up to the Link scheme. But if that is the case then Im afraid thats a problem Monzo 
needs to work out for itself  its not a problem it can fairly pass on to customers.
The evidence weve asked for is very relevant. For example, we asked for evidence of 
whether the ATM balanced and whether any cash was held in the purge bin, but Monzo did 
not provide this. And without this, I cannot be satisfied that the ATM actually dispensed all 
the cash it thought it did, or that the disputed £20 did not get stuck or otherwise fall into the 
purge bin, and so on. We also asked for evidence from the ATM owner of whether there 
were any other reported issues with this machine around the time, but again Monzo did not 
provide this. So I cannot be satisfied that the machine was in full working order at the time.
On the other hand, Mr Es testimony is  in and of itself  evidence. And his testimony has 
been consistent and credible. Ive not found any good reason to disbelieve him. What hes 
described  a note or two failing to dispense  can and does happen from time to time, for a 
variety of reasons.
In summary, Monzo has not proven that that the disputed withdrawal was executed properly 
and without deficiency, nor has it sufficiently evidenced that it was entitled to debit Mr Es 
account for the full amount. On the other hand, it seems both likely and plausible that Mr E 
really did not receive the disputed £20. It follows that I currently think Monzo must refund it. 
Really, I am unsure what else Monzo expect to achieve by refusing to evidence its own side 
of the case.
Monzo pointed out that there were other cases where it did not lose. But as it knows, we look 
at each case on its individual merits. Ive explained above why I think Monzo is not entitled to 
hold Mr E liable for the disputed amount in this case.
Lastly, I can see that Mr E was caused some real trouble and stress in trying to get this 
sorted out. He described how he had to explain himself repeatedly, only to get the same 
generic responses back, and how upset it made him feel to be disbelieved based on so little. 
And hes had to wait almost a year for this issue to be resolved, not least due to Monzos 
incorrect approach. That needs to be put right, too. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
29 November 2022. Both sides replied, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo explained that it had difficulties accessing the information wed asked for, and that it 
was working things out on that front, but in the meantime it agreed to settle this particular 
case in the way Id suggested. I appreciate Monzos point of view and Im grateful for its 
agreement to settle things.
Mr E reiterated how disappointed he was with Monzo  and particularly with a manager hed 
spoken to who chose not to refund him.
I understand Mr Es point of view, and why he may have felt like the manager was implicitly 
accusing him of lying. I should explain, though, that in cases like these a refund isnt a matter 
of judging the customers character; its a matter of whether the evidence supports a refund 
or not. Monzo felt that they had strong enough evidence that they could debit the £20 from 
Mr Es account, whereas I felt that their evidence wasnt strong enough and that it was more 
likely Mr E had lost out. I hope I can reassure Mr E that this was not a personal matter and 
his character was not being called into question.
I also understand that Mr E would like that manager to acknowledge they got things wrong 
by way of apology. The problem is that if I were to tell them to do so, it would seem forced 
rather than genuine  theyd be saying sorry because I told them to. So we dont normally tell 
businesses or their specific employees to do that, as it doesnt often tend to help much. 
Instead, we commonly tell businesses to pay compensation, to acknowledge what they got 
wrong and the impact it had. Thats why Ive awarded the additional £100 compensation 
here  to help put right the upset Mr E felt. And as standard, banks will give their staff 
feedback on complaint outcomes.
Putting things right
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
refund the disputed £20;
pay simple interest to Mr E on the £20, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable from 
the date it was last debited until the date its returned. This is to compensate Mr E 
for the time he didnt have that money.
pay Mr E £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this simple interest. Monzo must give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. Mr E may be able to claim 
the tax back from HMRC if he does not normally pay tax.My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint, and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman