DRN-3660757
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) do not recognise her as the
Premium Bond holder of a Premium Bond certificate she physically has a copy of.
What happened
Mrs B wrote to NS&I to confirm the Premium Bond numbers she held. NS&I responded to
her and gave her a list of Premium Bonds which totalled £82. Mrs B cross referenced the list
against her own records, and she said she had a total of £83 and one of the Premium Bonds
were missing for the value of £1.
Mrs B wrote to NS&I to quote the missing Bond number and asked for this to be included
with an up to date list for her, showing all of her Bonds. She also asked NS&I if the Bond had
ever been a prize winner. NS&I replied with a letter stating the Bond number she quoted no
longer exists. Mrs B wrote back to NS&I to let them know that this was not an acceptable or
accepted response. NS&I treated this as a complaint.
NS&I did not uphold the complaint. They said the Bond was no longer valid and they do not
hold any details of when it was cashed in. NS&I also said that while Mrs B held the physical
Bond, this does not necessarily mean it was still valid. They said regarding any prizes won,
there had been two winning £25 prizes, in December 2018 and November 2020, both of
which had been cashed. Mrs B brought her complaint to our service.
NS&I told our investigator that they were willing to pay Mrs B £30 compensation to resolve
her complaint as their complaint handler failed to notice that although the Bond number Mrs
B queried no longer exists, it was never registered in her name. It was registered in the
name of another NS&I customer and had previously been repaid. NS&I apologised for the
inconsistent responses that they sent Mrs B.
Mrs B rejected the compensation and she asked a number of questions, such as how was
her certificate issued to another person, when was the alleged occurrence and what prize
money is, or has been associated with her Bond number. Mrs B also provided our
investigator with a letter she sent NS&I in 1976, where she referenced all of her Bonds
(including the Bond which NS&I say was not registered in her name).
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He said that NS&I had provided evidence
to back up their claim that the Bond in question was no longer valid. He said that the
information showed the Bond was issued to someone other than Mrs B. He said the
information showed that the Bond was issued in 1956 and has been since cashed in by the
other person. He said he saw a copy of a Bond slip which was stamped in 1961, which
showed it was in another persons name. Our investigator said he was unable to explain how
the original Bond came into Mrs Bs possession.
Mrs B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In
summary, she said that she was holding the original Bond certificate, the responses from
NS&I about the Bond were different, she believed a Bond certificate had to be returned to
NS&I if it was to be encashed, computer records are only as good as the humans who input
the records, the Bond was not issued in 1956 as it was date stamped in 1960 and that she
wants the Bond she is holding to be included in her registered holdings and that if that Bond
has won any prizes at any time, then she should be awarded those prizes.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Mrs B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Due to the original events happening over 60 years ago and due to the records which are
held currently, it is impossible to say what definitely happened here. Mrs B believes that she
is the rightful owner of the Bond in question  which I will refer to as the disputed Bond and
NS&I are adamant that the disputed Bond was registered in the name of another customer.
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the
evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of
probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
The first thing I want to clarify is that the Bond was bought on 12 November 1960, as Mrs B
has pointed out the Bond certificate is date stamped with this date. While NS&Is system
showed the date 1 November 1956, this appears on NS&Is system for all old Premium
Bonds. When NS&I computerised their records, they decided to use one single date (which
NS&I have told me this is when Premium Bonds first went on sale). NS&I have said that
where this date shows on their system, the only way of checking the actual purchase date is
by obtaining the copy of the application form in question.
I also wanted to clarify to Mrs B that the date of March 1961, which our investigator
referenced, is in relation to when the disputed Bond was first eligible for a prize, and this was
not when the Bond was bought.
So Ive looked at the application form for the disputed Bond. This Bond is completed in the
name of another person. It is signed by a different account holder to Mrs B and the form
clearly states the Bond number of the disputed Bond. So Im satisfied that Mrs B did not
apply for the disputed Premium Bond.
But I am satisfied she applied for the Bond number after the disputed Bond number. Both
Bonds were sold on 12 November 1960. Ive also looked at the application form for this
number. This shows Mrs Bs maiden name and previous address. The value of this Bond
was £1. Im satisfied that this Bond was not bought on behalf of a child as the form has a
space for a childs date of birth and this is left empty. If Mrs B wanted to buy £2 worth of
Premium Bonds on 12 November 1960, she could have just bought a £2 bond (as NS&I
have confirmed these were available at the time) as opposed to 2 x £1 Premium Bonds.
While Mrs B might have reasons to buy consecutive £1 Bonds, the fact that the application
which displays the disputed Premium Bond number was signed for by another person,
persuades me that on the balance of probabilities, that she was not the legitimate owner of
the disputed Bond.
But this doesnt explain how Mrs B ended up with the certificate of the disputed Bond. This is
where Im persuaded that she has been given this certificate in error. While Im persuaded
that another Bond holder was entitled to the Bond certificate Mrs B was given and that is
why the NS&I system records show in another persons name (which matches up with the
application form), Im persuaded that the clerk responsible for giving the customers their
Bond certificates made an error in giving the disputed Bond certificate to Mrs B.Its likely the clerk gave Mrs B the correct Bond certificate and a Bond certificate which she
didnt purchase. NS&I have told me that its possible that when the Bonds were bought, as
they are consecutive numbers, it is not uncommon for a clerk to have given Bond certificates
to an incorrect person and they said they did not know if Mrs B held the original Bond
certificate for the Bond which is not in dispute that she holds. But the evidence suggests that
Mrs B did hold both original Bond certificates and Ill explain why.
The letter which Mrs B provided us from 1976, states that the missing bonds have now
appeared and as I requested I am returning the original bonds and keeping the
replacements. On page two of her letter, she lists the Bond which is not in dispute, along
with several other Bonds (18 in total) confirming she is returning those Bond certificates and
retaining the replacement Bond certificates. So Im satisfied that she was given the two Bond
certificates for the consecutive numbered Bonds, one which NS&I agree is in her name and
one which NS&I say was registered to another holder.
As Im persuaded that NS&I gave her both certificates, then I would not expect Mrs B to
vividly remember what Bond numbers she purchased when she wrote NS&I a letter 16 years
later. So this is where Im persuaded that Mrs B had kept a record of the Bond numbers on
the certificates that NS&I had given her and this is why she believes she is the rightful holder
of the Bond number which is disputed.
Ive seen no evidence that NS&I responded to the letter in 1976 to inform Mrs B that one of
the three Bonds she didnt send the original certificate to them was not in her name, but in
fairness to NS&I this is over 45 years ago, so I would not expect them to keep records of
this.
Ive considered how this issue has not come to light earlier. But it appears that the disputed
Bond had not won any prizes. I say this as I asked NS&I about this. I know Mrs B was keen
to find out if the disputed Bond had won anything. Due to the Bond being sold over 60 years
ago, there is not an in depth record kept. NS&Is system shows any prizes that Bonds have
won since 1994. So while they cant categorically say if the disputed Bond ever won any
prizes before 1994, their system does show if there are any unclaimed prizes. NS&I have
confirmed to me that they can say with certainty that the disputed Bond had never won a
prize which hadnt been cashed in, because details of any outstanding prizes were migrated
onto the new system in 1994.
NS&I provided me a screenshot to show that no prizes had been won with the disputed
Bond number from 1994, until the registered owner cashed in the disputed Bond on 2 June
1998. I asked NS&I would they be able to encash the disputed Bond if Mrs B was in
possession of the original certificate, as she had highlighted that a Bond certificate had to be
returned to NS&I if it was to be encashed. But NS&I confirmed that the certificate was not
required in every encashment, for instance if a customer had mislaid their Bond certificate,
NS&I would still repay them providing they were satisfied that the correct person was
requesting payment. They said due to the time that had passed they were unable to confirm
if the registered holder had provided a Bond certificate when encashing the disputed Bond.
Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities, that the registered owner on NS&Is systems
(not Mrs B) did not provide an original certificate when encashing the disputed bond, as this
would indicate two certificates for the same Bond were issued (as Mrs B has proven she has
the original disputed Bond certificate)  which NS&I have strongly denied it is possible for
two original certificates to be given for the same Bond number, as at the time of the sale, a
clerk was supposed to give the customer the same Bond certificate as the number on the
application form. So its probable that the registered owner told NS&I they mislaid their
certificate and as the details matched to what NS&I had on their system, they allowed thelegitimate owner to encash the Bond. Alternatively, the registered owner may have
previously requested a replacement certificate, which they then sent to NS&I when they
encashed the Premium Bond.
Im also persuaded that if the disputed Bond would have won a prize and Mrs B tried to claim
the prize, then it would have come to light a lot earlier that Mrs B wasnt the legitimate owner
of the disputed Bond. So Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mrs B was given an
incorrect Bond certificate and that another person genuinely owned the disputed Bond and
not Mrs B for the reasons Ive previously given. So I cant ask NS&I to register the disputed
Bond number to Mrs Bs holdings for this reason, even though she holds the original Bond
certificate, as this is not proof she bought this Bond. The proof lies in the application form for
the disputed Bond number containing another persons details and signature, in the same
way Mrs Bs details and signature are on the following non-disputed Bond numbers
application.
Ive considered what NS&I have told Mrs B since she first brought the missing/disputed Bond
to their attention. Mrs B says they told her different things, such as the Bond number she
quoted does not exist, the Bond number she quoted is not registered in her name and NS&I
confirming that the Bond is no longer valid. While Im not necessarily persuaded that the
different wording here means she was told incorrect information  as the Bond technically
didnt exist as it was encashed (at the least it would not be actively entered into prize draws),
and the Bond wasnt registered in her name (as it was registered in another account holders
name) and the Bond number wasnt valid (as it had been encashed). But without any context
provided, I can understand why Mrs B would say these were not credible answers.
I also clarified with NS&I what they said in their letter to Mrs B regarding any prizes won.
NS&I said there had been two winning £25 prizes in December 2018 and November 2020.
NS&I confirmed that these prizes did not relate to the disputed Bond, but they related to her
entire Premium Bond holdings.
Mrs B originally was provided poor customer service in the sense that the clerk originally
likely gave Mrs B two Bond certificates, based on the reasons Ive already given. At the very
least, they gave her an incorrect Bond certificate. So this set an expectation for Mrs B that
she would be able to claim any winning prizes on a Bond which wasnt actually hers (and
she would have no reason to believe otherwise several years later) - although it appears
there were no winning prizes from this Bond (or at least no unclaimed prizes).
Ive considered whether the £30 compensation that NS&I have offered Mrs B is fair. But Im
not persuaded it is. When Mrs B first communicated with NS&I in August 2021, she set out
two clear questions for them to answer. But NS&I did not answer either of these questions.
This would have been very frustrating for Mrs B after she had taken the time to write to them.
By not answering these questions and just replying that the Bond number she quoted didnt
exist, then Mrs B was inconvenienced by needing to contact NS&I again for answers.
But in the response NS&I gave Mrs B, they told her incorrect information and they were not
clear on other points. It would have been prudent to explain to her why the Bond was no
longer valid. The letter incorrectly stated that NS&I didnt hold any details of when the
disputed Bond was cashed in. But as Ive previously mentioned, the disputed Bond was
cashed in on 2 June 1998.
The letter says there was no further details NS&I could provide, but Im not persuaded that
this is accurate based on NS&I knowing that the disputed Bond number was registered
under another persons name. Then they told Mrs B that there had been two prizes won. But
Mrs B originally asked about prizes the specific singular Bond won. NS&Is letter did not
clarify that this referred to the £82 worth of Premium Bonds that were registered to her asopposed to the one which wasnt.
So Im not persuaded that the impact that the customer service NS&I gave Mrs B is covered
by £30 compensation. Im satisfied that £100 would be reasonable. I say this as £100 would
recognise the distress that NS&Is responses would have on Mrs B and the inconvenience
that was caused to her by needing to seek clarity on simple answers that she asked NS&I.
So it follows I intend to ask NS&I to put things right for Mrs B.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs B rejected the provisional decision. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said her request for the inclusion of the Bond which she holds, but is missing 
from her electronic list has been met with a false statement that the Bond doesnt exist, 
NS&Is latest attempt at an explanation that the Bond was part of a syndicate, and replies 
and explanations which include glaring inconsistencies. Mrs B gave three examples of these.
Example one was NS&I telling Mrs B in their final response letter that they did not hold any 
details of when the Bond was cashed in, but in my provisional decision I was able to 
ascertain that the registered owner cashed in the disputed Bond on 2 June 1998.
Example two was our investigator saying that he had saw a copy of a Bond slip which was 
stamped in 1961 which showed it was in another persons name, while NS&Is system 
showed the date was 1 November 1956, and I had said in my provisional decision that I was 
satisfied both Bonds were sold on 12 November 1960.
Example three was again the investigator saying that he saw the Bond slip stamped in 1961, 
my provisional decision stating that March 1961 was in relation to when the disputed Bond 
was first eligible for a prize and not when the Bond was bought and my provisional decision 
stating both Bonds were sold on 12 November 1960. Mrs B said that Premium Bonds are 
and were eligible for a prize one month after purchase.
NS&I said they thought the £100 compensation was too high and said Mrs B suffered no 
financial detriment. They had said they had proved the Bond in question was not in Mrs Bs 
name and I had agreed which they said Mrs B was not actually eligible to complain. They 
also asked if Mrs B had bought the Bond as part of a syndicate as what happened could be 
part of a switched Bond scenario.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about the inconsistencies. And Im persuaded that NS&I 
have at times gave her inconsistent information, or at the very least not provided additional 
context with some of the statements they have made. I addressed this in my provisional 
decision where I said Mrs B says they told her different things, such as the Bond number 
she quoted does not exist, the Bond number she quoted is not registered in her name and 
NS&I confirming that the Bond is no longer valid. While Im not necessarily persuaded that 
the different wording here means she was told incorrect information  as the Bond 
technically didnt exist as it was encashed (at the least it would not be actively entered into 
prize draws), and the Bond wasnt registered in her name (as it was registered in another 
account holders name) and the Bond number wasnt valid (as it had been encashed). But 
without any context provided, I can understand why Mrs B would say these were not credible 
answers. The extra compensation I said I intended to award her in my provisional decision 
is reflective of the impact the inconsistencies and customer service would have on her.I explained example two in my provisional decision. I explained that the Bond was bought 
on 12 November 1960, as Mrs B has pointed out the Bond certificate is date stamped with 
this date. While NS&Is system showed the date 1 November 1956, this appears on NS&Is 
system for all old Premium Bonds. When NS&I computerised their records, they decided to 
use one single date (which NS&I have told me this is when Premium Bonds first went on 
sale). NS&I have said that where this date shows on their system, the only way of checking 
the actual purchase date is by obtaining the copy of the application form in question. 
Where Ive mentioned in my provisional decision that the disputed Bond and the non-
disputed Bond were both sold on 12 November 1960, they were both sold by NS&I on this 
date. Mrs B has pointed out its stamped with this date, so we agree here. Ive considered 
what Mrs B has said about Premium Bonds are and were eligible for a prize one month after 
purchase. But NS&I have explained that at the time (1960), you had to wait three complete 
calendar months following the month of purchase, before the Bond was entered into the 
draws in March 1961. 
This date was only mentioned in my provisional decision to provide context to the 
investigators comments that he had seen a copy of the Bond slip stamped 1961. Both the 
disputed Bond and the non-disputed Bond are stamped on 12 November 1960 when NS&I 
sold these and they are also stamped March 1961, when NS&I received the application 
forms post sale, to denote the first prize draw they were eligible to be part of based on what 
NS&I say were the rules at the time. I appreciate the criteria may be different now. 
Ive considered what NS&I have said about how Mrs B could have bought the Bond as part 
of a syndicate. From Mrs Bs response, it appears the Bond was not bought as part of a 
syndicate (although she does not specifically state this). 
Im not persuaded that Mrs B would fall into a switched Bond scenario as NS&I believe is 
the most likely thing to happen here. This is usually where Bonds are bought as part of a 
syndicate but are distributed wrongly between syndicate members. On a switched Bond 
case, two different parties hold a Bond which wasnt their own, but they were missing a Bond 
which was theirs. But we know Mrs B holds the disputed Bond certificate. And based on her 
letter to NS&I in 1976, she informs NS&I that the missing bonds have now appeared and as 
requested I am returning the original bonds and keeping the replacements. 
So Im satisfied that Mrs B was provided both the original Bond certificates for the disputed 
Bond and the non-disputed Bond. But as I said in my provisional decision, the fact that the 
application which displays the disputed Premium Bond number was signed for by another 
person, persuades me that on the balance of probabilities, that (Mrs B) was not the 
legitimate owner of the disputed Bond. I then went on to say how Mrs B could have held 
both Bond certificates even though she was not the registered holder for the disputed Bond.
With regards to NS&Is comments about Mrs B not being eligible to complain, Im satisfied 
the complaint is in our jurisdiction and that Mrs B is an eligible complainant as the request 
regarding the disputed Bond originated from Mrs Bs earlier requests regarding her 
undisputed Bonds, which confirm shes a customer and therefore an eligible complainant.
Ive considered what NS&I have said about the compensation being too high. They feel the 
£30 they offered Mrs B was in line when considering such cases. But the extra £70 (to total 
£100) I said I intended to award is in line with our compensation awards for what happened 
here. While NS&I would say Mrs B suffered no financial detriment, this does not mean that 
as a result of the customer service she received from NS&I that she had no inconvenience 
or distress.
Mrs B was told on multiple occasions from the outset either incorrect/conflicting/unclear information about the disputed Bond and was provided a response which appeared to be out 
of context. This would distress Mrs B who originally submitted a straightforward request to 
NS&I. She was inconvenienced by having to respond to NS&Is original response. So Im not 
persuaded that £30 covers multiple examples of poor customer service. Im satisfied that an 
extra £70 to total £100 is in line with our established and published compensation guidelines 
here.
In summary, NS&I and Mrs Bs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know both parties will be 
disappointed, but I hope they understand my reasons.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said I intend to uphold the complaint in part and I intend to ask 
National Savings and Investments to pay Mrs B a total of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. National Savings and Investments should pay Mrs B a total of 
£100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman