DRN-2630447
The complaint
Mr C complains about Provident Personal Credit Limited. Mr C says he wasnt informed that 
he would need to make his loan repayments on a certain day. He says that he needed to 
make the repayments on his payday, which was a different day, and he says he was told he 
could do this when he applied for the loan. He says that when he realised he couldnt make 
the repayments when he wanted, it caused him significant distress. 
What happened
This complaint is about one home collected loan Provident provided to Mr C on 20 August 
2019. Mr C borrowed £300 and he was due to make 26 weekly repayments of £18. Mr C has 
been making his loan repayments mostly on a Friday and not always weekly. 
Mr C says he was told at the start that he could make the loan repayments on a Friday, his 
payday. But the terms of the loan say that he would need to make his repayments seven 
days after the loan was started. Which fell on a Monday. 
Provident has looked at Mr Cs complaint and has agreed that is was likely that Mr C was not 
given the correct information about when he should make the loan repayments. But it said 
he hadnt suffered a loss due to this.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed it was likely Mr C wasnt fully 
informed about the loan repayment day when he took the loan out. But also said that 
although Mr C hadnt made all of the repayments at the agreed time, he wasnt been 
charged any further fees or charges due to this. So, she didnt think that Mr C had suffered a 
financial loss. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that when he found out that he would 
not be able to repay the loans on the date he wanted to he became very distressed. He 
thinks he should be paid compensation for this. 
Our adjudicator didnt change their opinion about the complaint. As no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Both from what Provident and Mr C have said it seems reasonable to say that there was 
some confusion about what day Mr C would make the repayments to his loan. So I can 
accept this was the case. 
But Mr C has been able to make the repayments largely on the day that that he thought he 
would be able to. And even though he hasnt followed the repayment times as agreed in the 
loan contract, Provident hasnt added fees or charges above those agreed at outset to his 
account. And I havent seen any further evidence of any other detriment to Mr C because of 
this. So I dont think he has suffered a financial loss. 
Mr C says he found this very distressing at the time. And I dont doubt this was the case. But 
in order to award compensation for this I need to be able to say that Providents actions 
materially caused this distress. 
But this seems to be something that was put right by Provident and Mr C fairly quickly. And 
Mr C didnt suffer any adverse financial consequences. So, whilst I understand his depth of 
feeling I dont think any financial compensation is warranted. 
I appreciate this is not the answer Mr C is looking for but I hope it doesnt cause him any 
distress and they my explanation is helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman