DRN-3701958
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
D2 Financial Solutions (UK) Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to it as D2. 
What happened
Mr S approached D2 to discuss his pension and retirement needs in 2017. The information 
D2 gathered about Mr S was broadly as follows:
Mr S was 54 years old and working. His current salary was £28,500 per year. Mr S 
was married, and Mrs S, who was a similar age, was receiving incapacity benefits of 
around £8,000 per year. They lived in local authority rented housing.
Mr and Mrs S had no dependent children. Other than some shares earned through 
Mr Ss employers share-scheme, they had no other assets or savings. 
Mr S was a deferred member of an OPS, having been employed between the mid-
1980s and 2005. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ss OPS was 
approximately £373,000 with a normal retirement age of 65. 
In the light of the recent pension freedom rules, Mr S had expressed an interest in 
accessing his OPS at the age of around 55 to buy a house although he expected to 
carry on working for several more years.
In May 2017, D2 advised Mr S to transfer out of his OPS and use the funds to buy a house. 
It said the remainder should be invested with a well-known company in funds it 
recommended. 
Mr S now says he was given unsuitable advice by D2. D2 disagreed and the complaint was 
referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said although 
D2 had got a number of things wrong, they thought Mr S would have still transferred out of 
his pension anyway. The investigator recommended we shouldnt uphold the complaint but 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. 
I issued a provisional decision (PD) on this case in August 2022 inviting either party to 
provide any new information or arguments they wanted me to consider. D2 sent me a 
response which Ive considered. Mr S didnt submit anything else and said he agreed with 
what Id said in the PD.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, D2 should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in the consumers best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Having looked at all the evidence available, including D2s response to my PD, Im not 
satisfied it was in Mr Ss best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Ill start out by addressing what D2 said about Mr Ss attitude to risk (ATR). I note from the 
suitability report D2 produced that Mr S was placed in the ATR category of lowest-medium 
(or a risk of 4/10). It seems to me this was based on a tick box risk profiler form hed filled 
out. Whilst Ive no doubt Mr S ticked the relevant boxes and signed the form, I think some of 
the answers he gave to certain questions conflicted with others and ought to have raised 
further enquiry. On the fact-find it was said that Mr S wanted low risk and wanted low 
volatility. So, Ive thought about the likelihood of this ATR category of 4/10 being accurate. 
Mr S did own some shares, but these were related to his job share-scheme and so I dont 
think hed have had much direct involvement in selecting or managing these. Other than this, 
I can see, for example, that he had no experience at all of investing and he said he was 
uncomfortable with the concept. He also expressed concerns about potential investment 
losses and he indicated hed rather have a guaranteed income if able to choose. 
Printed elsewhere on the risk profiler form, it was recommended that before deciding on the 
ATR attributed it would be appropriate to consider the term Mr S was investing over, the 
importance of his investment and whether hed be able to afford sustained losses. Overall I 
dont think D2 did this and instead focussed only on what answers hed ticked to various 
questions on the profiler form. Looking carefully at his situation, I think his ATR was lower. I 
think that given the different answers hed given, D2 should have discussed his ATR further 
with Mr S before arriving at a decision about what his ATR actually was. Its also difficult to see how Mr S had any capacity for loss: he had no other savings and hed 
not signed up to his current employers pension scheme, as of 2017. Mr S had no other 
assets and lived in a council property and there was no apparent prospect of Mrs S being 
able to work. 
So, I think that collectively these things should have put D2 on notice that it ought to have 
categorised Mr S at very low levels in both these areas. These things are important, as they 
help put into context the types of investments that might be suitable for someone like Mr S 
and the level of growth he could reasonably target in a personal pension if the transferring 
out of his OPS went ahead. And as Mr S should have been categorised at a much lower 
level, the ability to really grow his funds would have been constrained.
D2 said the critical yield, or growth rate, required to match Mr Ss benefits at age 65 was 
6.44% if he took a full pension. The relevant discount rate was 3.8% per year for 10 years to 
retirement. For further comparison, Ive noted the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken all this into account, Mr Ss realistic attitude to risk and also his term to retirement. 
There would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him through his 
existing DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
However, in this case, given the figures Ive demonstrated above, I think Mr Ss pension was 
unlikely to grow outside his OPS in a way that would make transferring it out worthwhile. In 
my view, he was likely to receive benefits of a significantly lower overall value than the DB 
scheme upon retirement by transferring.
I also noted that D2s own transfer analysis report tends to support this. It said that in order 
to purchase an annuity of an equal value to the benefits of his existing scheme at retirement, 
the estimated fund required would be approximately £617,000. So I think this helps establish 
the true value of the benefits Mr S would be giving up by transferring away.
D2 also provided some examples of how it thought Mr S could meet his retirement income 
needs if he transferred out. However, these were not direct like-for-like comparisons with the 
scheme hed be leaving and I think Mr S would have found the data hard to understand. 
In D2s final response letter, for example, it refers to the suitability report describing 
illustrations of potential income you could take from the pension fund, after having 
transferred. But the illustrations D2 used assumed a constant income, rather than an 
increasing one. They also assume a commencement at the age of 67, rather than 65 and 
with various projected growth rates factored in. D2 also recommended certain funds that it 
said could produce somewhere around 8% growth in a personal pension plan. But like the 
other examples provided by D2, these were not guaranteed in the same way his OPS was. 
Nor did they match the benefits Mr S would be giving up, including the spouse benefits, 
which Ill explain more about later.
D2 should also have known that past performance is no guarantee for future performance. 
So, I dont think the information Mr S was given here was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
also consider the discount rates and the regulators standard lower projections to be much 
more realistic, rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long 
period of time. These more realistic rates showed a likelihood of Mr Ss funds growing 
outside his DB scheme at a much lower rate than assumed by D2  and also much lower 
than the critical yield described above.In arriving at a view on the financial viability of transferring out, Ive considered D2s 
responses to my PD in relation to Mr Ss ATR and the potential for growth if Mr S went 
ahead and transferred his pension out of the scheme. However, D2s comments dont 
change what I think. 
In my view, theres very clear evidence that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ss 
best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Issues raised as the reasons to transfer
Ive used all the documentation available about this transfer to think about Mr Ss 
circumstances at around the time the advice was given. 
The fact-find and suitability report both say that Mr Ss aspiration was to more or less 
immediately access some of his pension savings at the age of 55, which was only a few 
months away. The information gathered is fairly clear that his major objective was to move 
from his current council-owned property, to buy a home of around £200,000 for him and Mrs 
S. This was to be achieved by him accessing around £93,000 of his transferred pension as a 
25% tax-free cash element, and to take another £30,000 as a taxed lump-sum. These 
amounts would be paid as a deposit for a house and the remaining amount would be 
obtained via a mortgage. Accordingly, D2s recommendation was to transfer your existing 
pension . to a new Personal Pension so Mr S could allow these cash amounts to be freed 
up at the age of 55.
Although not specifically listed in the suitability report, mention was made on the fact-find of 
Mr S also wanting to use some of the money hed get access to by transferring his pension 
to pay off some debts. Its not entirely clear what the details of these debts were. However, 
Mr S himself had referred to potential issues in getting a mortgage due in part to his poor 
credit history. And D2 also says in its final response letter that Mr S had debts of £12,700; it 
also refers to previous, although unspecified, problems he had with unsecured lending.
However, as Ill explain below, I think the issue of outstanding debts was much less 
prominent, in the consideration about what Mr S wanted money for at the time, than his 
desire to buy a house. In support of that view, I note the debts were not comprehensively 
explained in either the fact-find or suitability report and they seem only to comprise of a car 
loan and some moderate credit card balances. After my PD, D2 confirmed this to be 
accurate.
I think its therefore fair to say the money from accessing Mr Ss pension at 55 was mainly 
related to him wanting to buy a house. The supporting reasons outlined in the suitability 
report for D2s transfer recommendation were broadly as follows:
The existing schemes early retirement options did not meet Mr Ss needs.
Access to 25% tax-free cash (more than in his existing scheme).
Full control over when to access benefits, more flexible access to benefits, allowing 
you to decide how and when you draw.
Increased lump sum death benefits for wider family. Ive considered all these reasons to help me think about whether the recommendation to 
transfer out was justified. 
Some consideration appears to have been given to Mr S remaining in his existing scheme, 
where he could still have accessed some tax-free cash at some point after the age of 55. 
However, this was discarded mainly on the basis of the tax-free cash element being too low 
for what Mr S wanted the money for. He also didnt yet need an additional income in the form 
of a pension. At the ages of 55 or 59 for instance, tax-free lumps sums of around £38,000 
and £49,000 respectively could have been accessed from his existing scheme, with 
pensions for life of £5,700 and £7,500 per year in each case. 
I agree these options would not have been suitable for Mr S. The information provided tends 
to show these lump sums would not have met his requirements for buying a house because 
he implied he wouldnt have been able to get a mortgage covering the balance. And the 
resulting pensions, in my view, were not yet required due to Mr S still working. Accessing his 
OPS early like this would have therefore compromised its value in that his pension, when he 
eventually retired, was too low for his retirement needs because hed accessed it early. 
Next, I considered whether accessing a full 25% tax-free cash amount, by transferring his 
OPS to a personal pension, contributed to making the overall transfer recommendation 
suitable. Its often the case with personal pensions that a greater access to tax-free cash is 
achievable; more than would be available via a DB scheme. This is because the overall 
benefits and values are calculated in different ways. 
However, D2 should have been explaining to Mr S that this extra cash came with a cost. 
Accessing more cash would leave less money remaining in the funds available for a 
pension, and in Mr Ss circumstances, I think this would have meant an uncertain retirement. 
This was Mr Ss only pension and giving up cash now meant having less income later. I 
dont think D2s recommendation adequately accounted for this.
I then considered the issues of control, access and flexibility, as outlined in the suitability 
report recommendation section. 
Essentially, I think these issues were poorly defined by D2 and no more than generic 
objectives common in many pension transfer situations. I dont think, for example, that Mr S 
had either the capacity or desire to actively manage his pension affairs. He was already in a 
pension scheme, one run by trustees and which required little or no effort from Mr S. 
I also dont think Mr S required the flexibility as put forward by D2. He didnt need a flexible 
income, in fact, I think the opposite was true in his situation and this was likely to be the case 
in the years ahead. As for the immediate future, at the age of 54, Mr S was still employed. 
His stated intention at that point appeared to be to continue working for quite a few more 
years. Whilst Mr S did not have a high salary, the evidence collected and used by D2 shows 
he and Mrs S were able to live on his income and her incapacity benefits combined  after 
expenses it noted they had disposable income of around £700 per month. 
Death benefits
This issue was also cited by D2 as a reason for Mr S to transfer from his OPS. Death 
benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through 
a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. Mr S certainly needed an income in retirement. 
And I dont think D2 explored to what extent Mr S was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were substantially 
underplayed. This pension contained very good death benefits in my opinion: Mr S was 
married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have been useful if 
Mr S predeceased Mrs S. In certain circumstances, a widows pension of 60% was available 
and I dont think D2 made the value of this benefit clear enough during the advice. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. Given Mrs Ss circumstances, I think 
this was a benefit Mr S would have been loath to give up had it being explained to him in the 
right way.
Also, in this particular case, whether the death benefits here were improved following a 
transfer depended on how much remained in the pension fund at the point of Mr Ss passing. 
Given average life expectancy, and the size of this fund, I think it was always a possibility 
that this fund would be entirely depleted prior to Mr Ss death, thus providing no death 
benefits at all. I dont think that D2 made this clear. And I dont think D2 should have told Mr 
S that the death benefits were better by transferring  they werent.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. 
Suitability of the advice
This brings us to the crux of the matter  the main reasons apparently behind the transfer-
out recommendation. 
Ive thought about the unsecured lending D2 mentioned, particularly the comments made in 
its complaint final response. However, no evidence was recorded at the time of the advice, 
that any borrowing Mr S had wasnt being duly addressed. Nor is there any evidence 
showing Mr Ss debts compromised his overall financial well-being at that time. In my view, 
these issues have been mostly mentioned by D2 after Mr S made the complaint.
So, although some reference was made to Mr S wanting to reduce his debts, Ive seen 
nothing showing this was an actual objective at the point of the advice. Theres also no 
evidence he was behind with his repayments or that he was in financial distress. But even if 
this were the case, Id have expected a much more comprehensive commentary from D2 in 
its advice in 2017. This might have included an itemised list of his borrowing and the options 
to reduce this in a way which didnt involve compromising his retirement. 
This therefore leaves only what seems to have been Mr Ss major aspiration at the time, 
which was to buy a house. I certainly dont doubt this is something Mr S may have wanted to 
do. I accept he may even have been thinking about it for a long time. However, D2s role 
here wasnt to simply transact what Mr S thought he wanted; its responsibility was to really 
understand his needs and recommend what was in his best interests. And in paying for 
financial advice, I think Mr S would be expecting to be guided on what was best for him.
Looking at his overall situation, I think D2 ought to have thought very carefully about Mr Ss 
future needs before any recommendation was made. It should also have been considering 
the starting position of the regulator which is that transfers from DB pensions probably arent 
suitable. As Ive said, Mr S had failed to sign up for his current employers pension scheme 
despite having been in his job many years. And even if he did in the future, this was a much less generous defined contribution scheme. Given his age, I think Mr S was highly unlikely 
to achieve a viable pension from this alone.
I think its also fair to note that Mrs Ss situation added to the need for caution and ought to 
have been factored into the advice D2 gave. She had no income (other than incapacity 
benefit) and no pension of her own. 
So, even with Mr Ss existing pension, I think they faced a challenging retirement. At the 
normal retirement age of 65 Mr Ss OPS was projected to pay around £15,000 per year and I 
think this would have barely met their needs in its own right. D2 doesnt appear to have 
analysed how much income Mr S would have needed in retirement although I note it now 
says this was because he was still some way off giving up work. It was implied in the fact-
find that Mr S was spending money on debt but there was very little detail about this and 
whether it would have been cleared by retirement. A proper analysis would have determined 
what level of income was needed in retirement and determined how much of a shortfall there 
could be, including between the ages of 65 and 67, for example. 
I therefore dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr S to give up his guaranteed 
benefits at that point when he didnt fully know what his and Mrs Ss needs in retirement 
might be. If he later concluded that he had the need and the means to transfer out of his DB 
scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
So, whilst accepting that Mr S wanted to buy a house, all these other issues needed to be 
considered very carefully  and I dont think the eventual transfer recommendation did this. 
There was an opportunity here for D2 to tell Mr S that he simply couldnt afford to do what he 
wanted to do, or certainly not yet. 
Mr and Mrs S lived in a council property and I note they wanted to move to a better home, 
but equally, Ive seen nothing that shows their housing situation was so critical as to 
outweigh all these other important considerations. And even if their housing situation was 
critical, I would have expected this highly relevant information to have been recorded on the 
suitability report in support of the recommendation. It appears to me they had sufficient 
income to meet the rental payments with disposable income of £700 per month. On the other 
hand, there was no assessment of what a new mortgage would cost, if Mr S was allowed to 
borrow. In this context, Im not satisfied the advice to transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
I think Mr Ss overall situation demanded that he should use his OPS in the way it was 
originally intended. This was for him to remain in his OPS and to access the benefits at 
retirement. 
Other issues
Ive noted D2 sent us a copy of an agreement form Mr S signed. D2 implies this shows Mr S 
was made aware of the risk of transferring and the benefits hed be giving up. Ive 
considered this but this doesnt change the recommendation D2 provided to Mr S, which was 
to transfer out. So, if D2 wanted to make it clear that the risks outweighed the benefits, its 
advice should have reflected this by recommending that he shouldnt transfer. Of course, if 
Mr S had still insisted, then the parties could have gone on to discuss the risks in greater 
detail and D2 could have really set out its case.
In any event, this appears to have been a pre-prepared document produced by D2, rather 
than Mr S himself. So to me, the same issues are therefore apparent  if the risks were so 
high, then these should have been apparent in D2s overall recommendation. Mr S could 
have then been asked to explain in his own words, had he disagreed.Would Mr S have still transferred out of his scheme?
Our investigators view was that D2 had made a number of failings broadly along the lines as 
Ive explained in my decision. However, they also thought Mr S would still have transferred 
out, even if the advice had said he should keep his pension in the OPS. 
I considered this issue with great care and also reconsidered it in the light of D2s response 
to my PD.
However, I dont think Mr S would still have gone ahead with the transfer, even if hed been 
advised by D2 not to. In my view, the evidence simply isnt strong enough for me to say this 
and Mr S has told us hed have considered staying where he was. As Ive said, there was no 
immediate or pressing need to move home that was made apparent in any of the documents 
used at the time and, as Ive also said, D2 wasnt there to simply transact what Mr S thought 
he wanted. So, Im not persuaded that Mr S would have insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme, against D2s advice, had that advice been objective and incorporated all the 
risks Ive highlighted above. 
These risks included this pension accounting for the vast majority of his and Mrs Ss 
retirement provision. In this context, D2 needed to explain  that at the very least  its 
recommendation would involve removing at least a significant part of Mr Ss available 
pension, a pension that was already modest. It should have been pointing out the challenges 
this presented in his retirement.
There was also a specific risk around loss of the guarantees and benefits, particularly for 
Mrs S, if Mr S predeceased her. 
Mr S was also willing to pay for regulated financial advice, so I think if D2 had provided him 
with clear and objective advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think its more likely he would have accepted that advice.
Suitability of investments 
D2 recommended that Mr S invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr S, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in 
the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. We now know Mr S 
withdrew all the funds in subsequent years.
Response to my PD
As mentioned earlier in this decision, D2 replied to my PD making a number of points. Im 
grateful for the time taken for D2 to set out its position again. Ive read everything that it has 
said, but in general terms, almost all of D2s points are a re-emphasis of what it has already 
provided. 
Ive nevertheless thought very carefully again about all the arguments in the light of D2s 
submission. It asked me to specifically refer again to the statement from RH (a financial 
adviser) providing additional commentary of his discussions with Mr S at around the time of 
the advice. I did this before issuing my PD and have done so again but Im afraid it doesnt 
change my view.
The major point here remains that Mr Ss rationale for transferring from his OPS was said to 
be his desire to by a property. However, I comprehensively dealt with this issue in my PD. In the light of D2s reply, I still consider the reasons I gave, as to why this on its own didnt 
make the advice suitable, to be valid. Mr S may well have had a desire to buy a property, but 
as I explained, D2s job wasnt to simply transact what Mr S thought he wanted at any cost.
Similarly with other issues mentioned by D2 following my PD: these included the financial 
disbenefits I mentioned of transferring out from his DB scheme; Mr Ss apparent desire for 
flexibility and control of his pension; and his ATR. These were all matters which D2 felt the 
need to re-emphasise its original views on in replying to my PD.  
But in all these areas, D2 had nothing new to add. I remain of the view, for the same reasons 
I have previously set out, that theres very clear evidence Mr Ss pension benefits would 
have been lower by transferring out of his OPS. Nor do I think he had a need or desire to 
manage or control his own pension affairs. And what D2 has added about his ATR only adds 
weight, in my view, to him being categorised too highly. 
I do agree with D2, however, that the overall redress calculation must be consistent with any 
benefits or gains Mr S enjoyed by accessing the funds in the way he did. Financial Conduct 
Authority Guidance 17/9 (see below) accounts for any withdrawals made when undertaking 
these types of calculations.
 
Summary
In this decision I have explained the situation Mr S was in. He wanted to move from a council 
house and buy a home for himself and Mrs S to live in. With no deposit, a moderate income 
and a poor credit history, Ive no doubt he saw the new pension freedom rules as a possible 
way to achieve this as he approached the age of 55. 
However, I began by explaining how I think D2 mis-judged Mr Ss ATR. I then demonstrated 
how his existing pension funds, outside of his DB scheme, were highly unlikely to grow to an 
extent where transferring out was financially viable. As such, Mr S would most likely receive 
benefits of a substantially lower value. This alone made the transfer unsuitable from a 
financial viability perspective.
Next, I explained that this was Mr Ss only pension (other than a state pension). He and Mrs 
S had neither savings nor assets available for their retirement and Mrs S was in receipt of 
incapacity benefit and unable to work. In my view, they were in a somewhat vulnerable 
situation which Mr Ss OPS could have helped to mitigate in the years ahead by providing a 
retirement income for the rest of his life. 
I also set out the shortcomings in D2s advice: failures to objectively point out the risks; 
failures to provide clear warnings about future income needs; and no coherent assessment 
of Mr Ss current and future debt requirements.
So, as compelling as Mr Ss aspirations about buying a house were, accessing his only 
pension early, by transferring out of his DB scheme, was not in his best interests. Mr S was 
giving up a guaranteed and index-linked income and very good spouse benefits. In his 
situation, these were all important considerations.
In addition to these considerations, there was simply no evidence showing either moving 
home at that point or paying down unspecified debts were so critical to Mr Ss situation as to 
make transferring out the right thing to do. It left Mr and Mrs S with a substantial gap in their 
retirement needs going forward and D2 seems to have taken little or no account of this in 
making its recommendation. My final decision is therefore that I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. He 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out - D2 should have advised Mr S to remain in his 
DB scheme.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome is for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for D2s unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
D2 should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
D2 may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date D2 receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes D2 to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I am aware that on 2 August 2022,  the FCA launched a consultation on changes to this 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 
2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current methodology in 
FG17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its 
review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the 
methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
Nevertheless, the basic objective of the proposed amendments still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 during the consultation. But until 
changes take effect, firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation 
to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into force after the 
consultation has concluded.
I think its fair for me to give Mr S the same choice. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. And, having reviewed the FCAs consultation and 
its proposed updates to the methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed changes under 
consultation would, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr S in 
this case.
Therefore, if Mr S wishes to have his redress calculated in line with any new or updated 
guidance and rules, I direct D2 to undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated 
methodology as soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to 
calculate and pay any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  As I have set out above, 
it is not certain when any updated rules and guidance will come into effect, but the FCA has 
said that it expects this will be in early 2023. 
As noted above, the FCA has stated that the aim of any updated  guidance and rules would 
remain the same as in FG17/9, which is to put consumers in the position they would be in if 
they had remained in their DB scheme (recognising actual reinstatement into the former 
scheme might not be possible).
This Service cant advise Mr S on whether or not he should wait. The FCA has published 
some information and answers to likely questions consumers might have about how redress 
is calculated.  I recommend Mr S reads this information before he makes his choice. 
This can be found here: https://www.fca.org.uk/consumers/pension-transfer-defined-
benefit/redress-calculations
Mr S should let me know in response to this view whether he wishes for D2 to calculate any 
compensation that may be owed to him: 
a) in line with the guidance in FG17/9 (as recommended above)
or 
b) in line with any new rules or guidance that are expected to come into force in early 2023. 
If I dont receive a response on this point, Ill assume Mr S doesnt wish to wait and Ill 
continue to recommend compensation to be calculated in line with FG17/9.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the outcome of the 
consultation is published, Id expect D2 to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D2 Financial Solutions 
(UK) Ltd to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D2 Financial Solutions (UK) Ltd to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D2 
Financial Solutions (UK) Ltd to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D2 Financial Solutions (UK) Ltd pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D2 Financial Solutions 
(UK) Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt agree. Further, its unlikely that Mr S 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman