DRN-1823684
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) have mishandled 
her claim for legal expenses insurance.
Acromas use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference 
to the insurer within this decision should be taken to include the acts and omissions of such 
intermediaries.
What happened
Mrs B holds legal expenses insurance cover  underwritten by Acromas  that was part of 
a travel insurance policy she held with another insurer (Saga). Mrs Bs husband sadly 
passed away after falling ill on a cruise in 2015. So she made a legal expenses insurance 
claim for assistance in pursuing either the cruise operator or the Italian hospital where her 
husband was treated, as she claimed that either of these parties could be held responsible 
for his death.
Solicitors were appointed and Counsel eventually instructed in January 2017 to provide a 
prospects assessment on Mrs Bs claim, as the policy requires at least 51% prospects of 
success for a claim to be covered. Counsel reported that there were not sufficient prospects 
to bring a claim against the cruise operator, but that a clinical negligence claim could 
potentially be brought against the Italian hospital. However, Counsel said that this cause of 
action would be governed by Italian law, so they were not qualified or in a position to advise 
on the likelihood of success of any such action.
Acromas declined to cover any legal action to pursue the cruise operator for liability, but said 
they awaited further information from the solicitors regarding the prospects of pursuing the 
Italian hospital, which required the appointment and advice of Italian legal agents and 
medical experts. It then wasnt until 19 October 2017 that the solicitors confirmed there were 
reasonable enough prospects to proceed to the next stage, but that further expert reports 
were still needed to fully establish whether the hospital had been negligent.
However, another two years passed and Acromas said that the further information was still 
required to confirm whether the clinical negligence claim had sufficient prospects.
Mrs B complained about the progress being made on her claim, as it had taken years for her 
claim to progress, which had put the legal action at risk of being time barred. Acromas said 
that they were not wholly responsible for the time it had taken to reach the current point of 
the claim. But they partially upheld her complaint as they acknowledged that they were 
responsible for some delays and miscommunication between those involved, so they offered 
£200 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He considered that the delays in 
progressing the insurance claim were out of the insurers control and were largely a result of 
the cross-jurisdictional complexities and third parties involved. So he didnt think Acromas 
could fairly be held responsible for the maladministration or delays involved with the claim. 
Mrs B disagreed, so the matter was passed to me to determine.I issued my provisional decision on 27 April 2020. I said I was minded to uphold Mrs B's 
complaint, and set out the following findings:
Mrs B complains that Acromas have mishandled her insurance claim and have caused 
unreasonable delays in its progress.
There are several parties involved in Mrs Bs claim as well as Acromas, such as solicitors, 
third-party experts, translators and claims administrators. But its important to note from the 
outset that I can only consider the actions of Acromas as the insurer and their appointed 
intermediaries within this decision. Acromas cannot be held responsible for the failings of 
any independent third parties such as the solicitors, for example. It also falls outside the 
remit of this service to consider the actions of solicitors and the way theyve handled Mrs Bs 
claim. But I understand she has already been directed to the Legal Ombudsman, who are 
the appropriate body to consider such concerns.
Mrs B has also raised concerns about another insurer  Saga  who provided her travel 
insurance as she is unhappy with the hospital they chose for her husband and the way they 
handled his treatment. But the travel insurance element of Mrs Bs policy is underwritten by a 
different insurer (Cigna Europe Insurance Company). So any concerns she has about the 
handling of her travel insurance claim should be directed to the relevant insurer, and I wont 
be able to comment on any aspect of these concerns within this decision, which is 
concerned solely with actions of Acromas as the underwriter and firm responsible for the 
legal expenses insurance element of Mrs Bs policy.
Mrs Bs claim spans a timeframe of around five years and involves a significant amount of 
correspondence from all the parties involved, which I have considered when reviewing this 
complaint. And having done so, I do consider that there are elements of Mrs Bs claim that 
could have been handled better, and which have resulted in avoidable delays.
Acromas have also acknowledged that there have been occasions where they could have 
handled things better, and have offered Mrs B £200 compensation. But I dont think this is a 
proportionate reflection of the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mrs B, so I intend 
asking Acromas to award a further £300 (amounting to £500 in total), which I think is more 
commensurate and fair in the circumstances of this case.
I appreciate that Mrs B may not consider this to be a proportionate reflection of the time it 
has taken to progress her claim. But I cant fairly hold Acromas responsible for all the delays 
and poor handling she has experienced. Mrs Bs solicitors have explained how this is not a 
straightforward case and is objectively complex  as cases of clinical negligence can often 
be. And I can see that matters have been further complicated by the cross-
jurisdictional nature of the claim, requiring advice from Italian legal professionals and various 
reports from medical experts.
I can see, for example, that there have been various occasions where the insurer has been 
waiting on solicitors to progress the claim and confirm that the clinical negligence claim held 
reasonable prospects and was proportionate to pursue, which has seemingly been held up 
due to the solicitors waiting on third-party experts to provide the information they required 
(such as reports from specialist medical experts and Italian lawyers). I can also see that the 
initial prospects assessment for the claim against the cruise operator was delayed as it was 
not clear what the actual cause of death was. And it appears that the initial firm of solicitors 
that were appointed (Firm P) failed to obtain a report to this effect, as outlined by Mrs Bs 
current solicitors in January 2017:
I am also concerned that [Firm P] had suggested obtaining a report from a 
gastroenterologist with which I agreed but none has been obtained. Such a report would at least have taken us to the position that we could have known what the cause 
of death was and advised properly as to prospects of success.
But again, such matters are the responsibility of the solicitors (as handlers of the legal claim) 
to ensure that matters are being progressed accordingly, and is not something that Acromas 
as the insurer can be held responsible for. I note that Mrs B requested to change solicitors in 
December 2016 after she was not happy with the initial firm that was instructed to pursue her 
claim. And Acromas obliged this request and instructed her current firm of solicitors.
But it wasnt until July 2019 that they received confirmation from the solicitors in regard to 
the quantum of the claim and that it was proportionate to pursue  leading to Acromas 
agreeing to fund further work on the claim for the solicitors to continue working with 
specialists to establish prospects. I appreciate the time this has taken must have been 
frustrating for Mrs B, but claims of this nature and complexity can unfortunately take time. 
And given that the solicitors deemed it necessary to obtain further expert evidence to 
establish whether Mrs Bs claim has sufficient prospects of success  which is a 
requirement of cover under the policy  I cant say Acromas have acted unfairly or in breach 
of the policy terms by waiting for this to be confirmed before proceeding with any legal 
action. I also don't think they've acted unreasonably by declining to fund any further action in 
pursuing the cruise operator, as Counsel confirmed that any such action would not have 
reasonable prospects of success. And the insurer is entitled to rely on the advice of 
appropriately qualified legal professionals in this regard.
So I cannot fairly hold Acromas entirely responsible for the time it has taken to get to this 
point. But I can see that in any event, the solicitors have since acted to interrupt the limitation 
period of the clinical negligence claim to preserve it until 2025, meaning that any delays 
have at least not served to prejudice Mrs B's claim overall.
However, I do not consider Acromas to be entirely faultless in their handling of Mrs Bs claim, 
and the insurer has acknowledged that their handling could have been better. Mrs B says 
her solicitors have often reported that they were waiting on the insurer to update them, which 
the insurer has conceded. I can see, for example, that Mrs Bs solicitors told Acromas in 
October 2017 that they needed the formal report from a specialist medical expert in order to 
determine negligence. But it took the insurer some nine months to provide their authority to 
the solicitors for the report to be obtained. Acromas have also acknowledged that they were 
responsible for some instances of miscommunication between them and the solicitors.
As a result, Acromas offered £200 compensation for the elements of poor handling for which 
they are responsible. But as explained earlier, I do not think this amount is commensurate to 
the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mrs B.
This would have been a very difficult and stressful time for Mrs B, who is understandably 
seeking some answers and closure from those who she claims are responsible for her 
husband's death. I appreciate that the complexity of the claim and the number of parties 
involved has contributed to the time it has taken to progress matters. But this has been 
further exacerbated by Acromas' failure to provide key funding decisions in a timely manner 
 to the point where Mrs B's claim could now be much further along than it currently is. So I 
intend directing Acromas to award a further £300 compensation  on top of the £200 
offered already  which I consider to be fair compensation and a more proportionate 
reflection of the impact their handling has had on Mrs B, who has described how frustrating 
and upsetting she has found the whole claims process.
Mrs B's claim is still awaiting further expert advice from medical professionals before 
prospects can be properly determined. Acromas should now ensure that this matter is concluded as promptly as it reasonably can be in the circumstances, and keep all parties 
regularly updated and informed.
I invited further comments and submissions from both parties. Mrs B responded saying she 
still does not consider the compensation to be commensurate to the experience she has 
had. Acromas did not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided to uphold it 
for the reasons set out previously.
I appreciate that Mrs B feels she is due further compensation, particularly given the time it 
has taken to reach this point in her claim. But as explained in my provisional decision, I 
cannot fairly hold Acromas responsible for the entire time her claim has taken to progress, 
given the multiple parties and complexities involved in her legal dispute. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs B said that Saga did nothing to place her 
husband in a better hospital, and that she was left in a poor quality bed and breakfast with 
no food and basic amenities. But as I've explained, I am only considering the actions of 
Acromas as the underwriter of the legal expenses element of her travel insurance policy. 
Acromas were not the insurer responsible for the decisions taken as to where her husband 
was treated, so I cannot award compensation for the concerns Mrs B has with how her travel 
insurance claim was handled. Such concerns would need to be considered in a separate 
complaint against the appropriate business that is responsible. 
So, given that Mrs B hasn't provided any further submissions in support of why 
Acromas ought to pay further compensation on top of the £500 I have awarded  and given 
that the insurer has not responded with any further comments  I see no cause to depart 
from the reasoning or proposals set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Acromas Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs B a total of £500 compensation 
(including the £200 they have already offered) in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their handling of her legal expenses claim. Acromas should pay 
the compensation within 28 days of receiving Mrs B's acceptance of this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman