DRN-3914809
The complaint
Company Y complains that due to poor customer service from Mettle, an agent for PrePay 
Technologies Limited, they suffered financially, put to inconvenience and also suffered loss 
of reputation.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. Briefly, as I understand it, Y is an arts service provider to businesses. In August last 
year, Mr G was referred by one of Ys customers, to a new potential customer. Mr G went to 
the premises of the customer to finalise a few details and take a deposit.
Y uses Mettle, a mobile app based e-money account provided by PrePay Technologies. 
When Mr G was with the potential customer, he wanted to provide Ys Mettle account details 
to the customer. Unfortunately, the app didnt work. Mr G called Mettle and essentially, he 
was not given proper advice. This led to the issue continuing for over two hours, with Mr G 
having multiple conversations with Mettle and the matter was eventually resolved.
Mr G said that not only this caused inconvenience, but he also lost that customers business, 
which was worth £800. He said that he came across as unprofessional and that had a 
bearing. He also said that he had to spend at least two hours to sort this out which he need 
not have. He said his hourly rate was £25. Therefore, he said PrePay Technologies should 
pay him a total of £850 by way of compensation.
PrePay Technologies accepted that its agent didnt follow the procedures correctly, thereby 
causing confusion and inconvenience to Y. It offered to pay £50 for the time Mr G had to 
spend on this, which he didnt accept.
One of our investigators concluded that the fair compensation should be £250. In reaching 
their conclusion they said that the recommended compensation is to take into account the 
inconvenience caused, the time Mr G had to spend on this issue and some damage to the 
reputation caused to Y. 
PrePay Technologies didnt agree. It felt that £250 was disproportionate to the impact 
caused by the issue. It said that if all Mr G wanted from the app at the time was his bank 
details, he could have asked and its agent would have provided those details. But Mr G did 
not mention that and therefore it could not be held responsible for him coming across as 
unprofessional.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PrePay Technologies has accepted its agent made an error, and I agree.  As it has helpfully 
explained, its agent incorrectly advised Mr G in the first instance to delete the app and 
reinstall it. And then did not alert him that he needed a recovery code, despite Mr G asking 
specifically what information would be needed to log in. The agent then followed it up with an 
email basically asking Mr G to get the recovery code from an old device. This is despite Mr 
G stating that he did not have access to the app on another device. 
This led to Mr G contacted Mettle again and was advised that an agent would have to call 
him to reset the recovery code. Mr G asked Mettle to call him as soon as possible but he 
was advised that a call is scheduled about an hour later. Still, Mettle didnt call him at the 
scheduled time and so Mr G had to call back and the matter was eventually resolved.
Thus, it took Mr G nearly two hours to resolve the matter and multiple contacts with Mettle, 
all of which could have been avoided had the agent in the first instance properly advised 
him. It is evident that this caused inconvenience to Y. 
I cannot be certain that Y lost the order solely due to the difficulties Mr G had with Mettle 
app. If Ys customer was keen to proceed with the order, it seems more likely to me that they 
would have done so later on once the matter was resolved. I also note that when the issue 
was ongoing, Mettle wasnt put on notice of the potential loss if it failed to resolve the matter 
swiftly. 
That said, I accept that Mr G spending nearly 45 minutes in front of a new potential customer 
to sort out the issue wouldnt have come across well. So, I agree with the investigator that it 
likely resulted in some loss of reputation to Y. PrePay Technologies say that if all Mr G 
needed was his account number and sort code he could have asked. But I can see from the 
transcripts of the conversations he was having with the agent that he was focussed on trying 
to get the app up and running. That was his primary concern and so I can see why it hadnt 
occurred to him to seek the information from the agent. 
Further, Mettles agents could see that he was struggling to get into the app. At one time he 
told the agent that he wanted this to be resolved as soon as possible. The agent still insisted 
they needed to call him to provide the recovery code, but they could only schedule a call an 
hour later. At that time, given that they could only call an hour later, they could have asked 
him what else they could do to help him meanwhile given his urgency and the matter could 
have been resolved then.
Overall, I agree with the investigator that this matter caused avoidable inconvenience and 
some damage to the reputation of the company. In instances like this, what would be the 
appropriate remedy is never a matter of exact science. However, on balance, I consider that 
the remedy proposed by the investigator is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint, and is broadly in line with what we would normally award where the impact 
was more than minimal, which is the case here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, PrePay 
Technologies Limited should pay £250 to Y.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman