DRN-2315999
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain AXA Insurance UK Plc have incorrectly recorded a motor insurance 
claim against them on the Claim Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Insurers have a duty to accurately record a true reflection of any incidents or claims 
reported to them on CUE  even if a claim isnt initiated. This is usually recorded on 
as a notification only complaint
I can see from the claim notes the enquiry was logged as notification only following 
a conversation that took place around January 2020. Ive also seen internal 
screenshots showing Mr and Mrs H as having no claims recorded with AXA. So while 
I understand Mr and Mrs H only intended to make an enquiry, and didnt make a 
claim, I dont agree the record has been added incorrectly
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs comments about how frustrating theyve found this 
situation  and that they feel theyre being punished for being honest. But as Ive set 
out above, I dont think AXA have acted unreasonably in recording the enquiry as 
notification only on CUE  and its always been recorded as such. AXA also 
refunded Mr and Mrs H £44 on a policy they still hold with them. So I think theyve 
acted fairly in the circumstances
AXA said they made an error in their final response when they said the record had 
been changed from a non-fault incident to notification only. From the information 
Ive seen, Im satisfied this was just that  an administration error. So I wont be 
recommending AXA pay any compensation
Mr and Mrs H said theyve since been refused cover by other Insurers - and their 
premiums with a separate insurer have increased because of the record on CUE. But 
its for the other insurers to decide if they wish to provide cover or not, and at what 
price, based on knowledge of the full facts. So, I wont be holding AXA responsible 
for this
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman