DRN-4428116
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a claim he made on his The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) legal expenses insurance policy. 
Mr W says NFU treated him unfairly.
All references to NFU include their claims handlers.
What happened
In 2022, Mr W made a claim on his NFU legal expenses insurance policy for cover to deal
with a dispute with his neighbour regarding the removal of fencing between their properties.
In his claim, Mr W said the dispute started in 2011. NFU accepted the claim and agreed to
fund Mr Ws own choice of Solicitors on his request to consider the merits of the claim. The
Solicitors he eventually instructed completed a claims management report and returned that
to NFU.
On review of the report, NFU noted that the dispute Mr W had with his neighbour appeared
to have started in 2011- several years before the policy was in place. As such they
eventually determined the claim wasnt one that was capable of being covered.
In communicating this to Mr W, NFU accepted theyd failed to communicate this properly to
him and his Solicitors. As such they offered Mr W £250 for this.
Unhappy with the position Mr W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our
investigator considered his complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said whilst the
policy term NFU were relying on did apply, it wasnt fair to apply it in the specific
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. She cited several reasons for this. NFU didnt agree so
the matter was passed to me to determine.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to depart from the investigators findings and not uphold Mr Ws
complaint.
The starting point is the policy terms. They only offer cover where the date of occurrence of
the insured incident is during the period of policy cover. Date of occurrence is defined as
follows:
DATE OF OCCURRENCE
For civil cases (except under Contract Disputes and Tax Protection), the date of occurrence
is the date of the event which leads to a claim. If there is more than one event arising at
different times from the same originating cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first
of these events. (This is the date the event happened, which maybe before the date YOU or
an INSURED PERSON first became aware of it).
Mr W took out and annually renewed his policies with NFU in 2018. He disputes the date of
occurrence happened before this date. Rather he says the dispute with his neighbour started
in 2021. On the other hand, NFU say that its clear from the pleadings in this case that Mr W
and his neighbour were engaged in a dispute about the same problems in 2011. NFU also
put the matter to their panel firm for advice. The panel firm advised them the claim was a
continuation of the events that took place in 2011.
Ive considered what the parties have said- and in particular Mr Ws assertion that the
matters in 2011 came to an end at that point and nothing at all happened between the
parties until a decade later. He said he had no reason to believe that the dispute would be
reignited and has made the point that in 2011, he was a tenant of the property he now owns,
so had no legal right to bring a claim at that time anyway. As I understand it, Mr M bought his
property in 2013. Hes also made the point that any claim in relation to the matters
complained of in 2011 would have been time barred because civil claims have a limitation of
six years.
Like the investigator, I agree with NFUs assertion that the date of occurrence in this case
did predate the policy. Its clear from the pleadings that the dispute thats being litigated now
is the same dispute that was in occurrence in 2011 because it concerns the same parties
and the same boundary as well as the same contentions over where the parties think their
land starts and ends. It makes no difference whether Mr W owned his land in 2011 because
the terms require the date of occurrence to be the date of the event which leads to a claim.
The claim itself could be made in trespass against him- he didnt need to own his property
for that. And in this case the earliest date is when Mr W removed the fence between the
properties.
Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair for NFU to rely on the term in issue here. The
purpose of insurance is to cover events that might or might not happen. So, we wouldnt
expect an insurer of a before the event insurance policy like this to cover something the
policyholder might have known could give rise to a claim later on.
At the time Mr W was in dispute with his neighbour about the fence, I agree that he wouldnt
have been in a position to bring a claim against them because he wasnt the owner of that
land, but as Ive said above, he could well have been a Defendant in that claim if the
neighbours had litigated against him for trespass at the time. They didnt so Ive thought
about whether Mr W might reasonably have considered the matter would continue to cause 
problems later on down the line when he purchased the property in 2013. This was 2 years
after the matter went quiet so, its quite possible he might have anticipated a resurgence. But
by 2020, I think it would have been reasonable for him to conclude 9 years on that there was
very little likelihood the dispute would reignite. This was until he filled in the ditch the
following year and started carrying out work to the disputed area. The ditch and the area of
land he was carrying out work on was the subject of the earlier dispute so I think he ought to
have been reasonably aware this would reignite matters which were in existence before the
policy started. In light of this, I think that by 2021 Mr W did take out insurance for something
he ought to have been aware would lead to a claim on the policy. And because hes not
entitled to cover for those kinds of situations, I dont think its fair for NFU to fund the matter
now.
When reaching this conclusion, I take Mr Ws point that the original matters complained of
wouldve been time barred. What isnt however time barred is any new matters that occurred
in 2021 and beyond for limitation purposes- in this case new trespasses complained of. And
given the position of the boundary still remains in dispute, I take the view that the matter isessentially the same dispute that occurred in 2011, irrespective of Mr Ws ownership of his
land at that time.
I asked both parties to provide me with any comments and evidence they wanted me to 
consider in response to my provisional findings. NFU havent responded but Mr W has. He 
doesnt agree with my findings and would like me to reconsider the position. Hes made the 
following points:
He doesnt recall the details of the dispute in 2011, which is before he owned the 
property. The chronology was put together by his son. 
He didnt remove and put up another fence, the landlord did this. The dispute with his 
neighbours was with his landlord and not him.
In 2021 he decided to tidy his garden and replace the rotten fence. In doing so the ditch 
on his land (as determined by a chartered surveyors report he obtained) was filled in 
and a fence erected on the correct boundary. This is what led to the dispute.
Hes received advice to say he cant be held responsible for something that happened to 
someone else before he owned the property. 
The panel firm is instructed by NFU so the conclusion theyve reached is not impartial. 
His own Solicitor came to the opposite conclusion.
The term relied on by NFU is unfair.
The compensation offered by NFU amounting to £250 isnt enough as he was told on 
three occasions he was covered by the policy. He appointed a Solicitor on that basis and 
now has bills of over £10,000 to pay.
NFU have admitted they were negligent, and their claims handlers said their staff needed 
retraining so £250 isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr Ws complaint should not be upheld. 
Mr W says that he cant recall the details of the dispute in 2011 and that he wasnt involved 
in it- this was between his landlord and his neighbours. But thats not consistent with his 
pleaded case. In his Defence, Mr W states that in early 2011 he removed the original fence 
along the north-west and north-east boundaries and replaced it with a new fence in the same 
position. He also says that after his neighbours removed the new fence, he went on to erect 
a temporary fence on his land along the edges of the ditch on his side of the north-west 
boundary. The Defence contains a signed statement of truth dated October 2022. So, Im not 
sure why Mr W now says he doesnt remember what happened in 2011 or that the dispute 
wasnt with him and was with his landlord. He was clearly involved in the 2011 dispute. 
Indeed, that is the basis on which hes advancing his Defence and seeking cover for. As 
such I dont agree with his recent assertions.
Equally Ive not seen anything that persuades me that the claim for which he was seeking 
cover was one that arose out of the events that took place in 2021. Ive addressed the 
reasons for this in detail in my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr Ws submissions that hes received advice that he cant be held responsible 
for something that happened to someone else before he owned the property. But he was 
involved in that dispute, so I cant see how that applies. And as I said before, his neighbours 
could have litigated against him at the time in trespass whether or not he owned the 
property. Whilst the more obvious person to claim against might have been his landlord at that time, the events set out in the Defence support that the landlord didnt seem to be 
involved at all other than owning the land Mr W was a tenant of.
Mr W says the conclusions reached by the panel firm arent impartial because theyre 
instructed by NFU. Whilst I dont agree (because the panel firm are an independent firm of 
professionals with their own codes of conduct and a separate regulator) I dont think that 
matters. Thats because I have determined the outcome of Mr Ws complaint rather than the 
panel firm. And I havent done that by relying on their advice. Rather Ive looked at the 
underlying facts of the claim and the policy terms and all the evidence presented by both 
parties to make that determination.
On the issue of compensation, NFU have not said theyve been negligent in how they 
handled Mr Ws claim. Rather theyve said that the service they provided fell short of the 
level theyd ordinarily expect. This is because they failed to communicate properly with Mr 
Ws Solicitors after their report was issued. I appreciate NFU first thought this was a claim 
that was covered when it should have been clear to them that it wasnt. But when they 
received the panel firms report, they did turn down cover- albeit later than they should have. 
That said, I havent seen anything that supports that NFU agreed to cover the £10,000 in 
costs Mr W has said hes incurred. Nor indeed any of his Solicitors costs before the report 
was provided. I imagine much of the costs were incurred after cover was turned down. If Mr 
W didnt want to continue with the litigation at that point, he could have asked his Solicitor to 
look at ways to settle the claim. I dont know what the status of the claim currently is or 
whether its continuing but given NFU didnt agree to the costs Mr W has incurred, I cant say 
theyre responsible for this. And I think the offer of £250 for poor communication is adequate 
in the circumstances.
Finally, Mr W has made various submissions about the term thats the subject of this dispute 
being unfair. This term is very common in before the event legal expenses insurance policies 
like the one Mr W has. We dont take the view that its unfair because this sort of cover is in 
place to protect against events that a policyholder doesnt have reasonable cause to know is 
likely to happen. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I think Mr W would 
have known that filling in the ditch on the disputed boundary would reignite an old dispute. 
Because of this I dont think NFU needed to cover his claim, nor do I think it was fair for them 
to do so. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against The National 
Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman