DRN-2478527
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the compensation awarded by HSBC UK Bank Plc, after it failed to 
send her statements for the cash account element of her InvestDirect Plus account.
What happened
In May 2020, HSBC wrote to Mrs S as a review of her account meant it realised it hadnt 
sent her statements for the cash account element of her InvestDirect Plus account. It 
apologised for this and offered to send her copies of the missing statements. This account 
had a quarterly fee of £10.50.
Mrs S made a formal complaint to HSBC and request it refund all her account fees for the 
time the statements were missing. HSBC paid Mrs S £50 in compensation for the error, but 
declined to refund all the fees. It explained the fees were charged for the running of the 
account and the features it provided, not just for sending paper statements.
Mrs S disagreed and brought her complaint to our service. She said the account fee was 
paid for receiving the statements, so she wanted this refunded. She also wanted 
compensation for having to pursue the complaint. Our investigator looked into her complaint, 
but didnt uphold it. She considered the information was available to Mrs S online and that 
the fee was not charged for providing statements. Mrs S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ss frustration at not receiving statements for the cash account element of 
her InvestDirect Plus account. However, I cant agree with her that this error warrants a full 
refund of all her account fees.
Mrs S has said that the quarterly account fee is charged due to her receiving paper 
statements  but this is not correct. HSBC has confirmed the account fee is charged for 
much more than this  and I accept this is true. While I appreciate Mrs S is correct that 
HSBC used to offer this account without a quarterly fee, shed have previously paid a 
percentage management charge and a charge for expenses. HSBC didnt start charging the 
fee due to providing Mrs S with paper statements for one element of the account, but instead 
moved to a different rates model, where it instead charged a set, quarterly fee. 
By having this account Mrs S was able open a Stocks and Shares ISA; Investment accounts; 
and to trade in certain stocks and bonds  alongside other account benefits. While she didnt 
receive statements for the cash account she also still held it and was able to use it, which is 
a benefit of the Plus account. And during this time HSBC ran her InvestDirect Plus account 
and administered it  which is a key part of why it charges the fee. So I cant say HSBC has 
acted unfairly by declining to refund Mrs S the full account fee for not sending statements for 
just one part of this account.
Mrs S has said that she has been deprived of the information she needed to inform her 
investment decisions and that she was blind to the market during this time. But HSBC has 
confirmed that the error only affected the cash account element of this account. So Mrs S 
still received information for the investment account element. The cash account is an 
additional feature of the Plus version of this account and so isnt needed to operate an 
InvestDirect account. And Mrs S was able to view the transactions to/from the cash account 
online or via telephone banking during this period if shed needed. So she did have access 
to investment information without receiving these statements. And she had the ability to 
check on the cash account via telephone banking (as shes said she didnt use a computer), 
if shed needed it. While I agree Mrs S shouldve received these statements, I cant see how 
shes actually lost out due to not receiving them.  
HSBC has compensated Mrs S £50 for not sending the cash account statements. I consider 
this is fair compensation considering she still had access to the vast majority of benefits of 
this account. And I cant see that not receiving these statements has caused her any 
financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman