DRN-2902800
The complaint
Mr B complains about problems he experienced with National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) when he applied for an income bond.
 
What happened
At the beginning of June 2020 Mr B applied online for an income bond with NS&I. Mr B has 
explained he doesnt have a debit card for a joint account he holds with his wife. As a result, 
Mr Bs wife used her debit card details to try and pay the funds required for the income bond 
to NS&I. 
A problem was identified by the systems and Mr B contacted NS&I. The business said that, 
because Mrs Bs card was used, the payment would be returned to their current account. Mr 
B was asked to send a cheque for the funds required for the income bond. 
A short time later, Mr B noticed the debit card payment had gone through, despite what 
NS&I had said. Mr B asked for the payment to be refunded to his current account which was 
now overdrawn. Around a week after NS&I received the debit card payment it refunded it. Mr 
B has explained the funds were returned around eleven days after they were taken. 
Mr B complained to NS&I and it issued several responses. NS&I apologised for the delay in 
returning Mr Bs funds and offered him a total of £300 compensation. Mr B referred his 
complaint to this service and said he thought NS&I should increase the compensation to him 
and his wife. An investigator looked at the complaint but felt NS&I had dealt with it fairly. Mr 
B asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has recently advised, this complaint is being dealt with in Mr Bs sole 
name as the product he applied for with NS&I was in his name only. I understand Mr Bs 
wifes debit card was used to make the payment and funds were debited from their joint 
account. But as Mr B is the customer of NS&I in this case, I can only look at how the 
business treated him. So my decision is going to focus on the issues raised and how they 
impacted Mr B. 
All parties agree that Mr B was given incorrect information after a debit card payment was 
attempted during the account opening process. Mr B contacted NS&I and was told the funds 
would be refunded straight away and was asked to send a cheque instead. NS&I has 
explained an issue with its payment systems meant it looked as if the funds would be 
refunded but they werent. NS&I has sent us systems evidence to show it processed a 
refund seven days after Mr B completed his online application. 
Mr B has explained that he had to chase NS&I for updates on his refund and that the 
process was very distressing. I can see Mr B made a payment for a substantial sum and I 
understand how stressful it must have been waiting to find out when his money would be 
returned. Mr B raised several complaints with NS&I which it ultimately upheld. I need to 
decide how to fairly resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
As Ive said above, Im only looking at how NS&I treated Mr B. Our rules dont allow me to 
award compensation to a third party who isnt a customer of the business being complained 
about. I can see how distressing the situation was and that it took over a week for Mr Bs 
funds to be returned. Its clear Mr B spent several hours trying to resolve the situation and 
contacting NS&I. I agree the service provided shouldve been better and that NS&I failed to 
quickly refund the debit card payment as initially promised. 
Ive considered the compensation offered by NS&I. I understand my decision is likely to 
disappoint Mr B, but Im satisfied £300 compensation fairly reflects the impact of the issues 
raised on him. I note everything Mr B has told us and Im satisfied the existing settlement is 
fair in all the circumstances. As the funds have been returned and Im satisfied NS&I has 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because National Savings and Investments 
has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman