DRN-1679542
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC Bank wont refund him £500 after an ATM dispensed cash that 
he didnt authorise or receive. 
What happened
Mr P has a current account with HSBC.
On the 25 July 2019, Mr P attempted to withdraw either £10 or £20 from his HSBC account, 
using a cash machine owned by another bank, which Ill refer to as Bank L. Mr P says that 
despite not requesting any money from the cash machine £500 was later debited from his 
account. 
Mr P says that on the 25 July 2019 he tried to use a cash machine outside a supermarket. 
He explains that on entering his card and PIN a man approached him and said there was an 
error with the machine. Mr P says that at this point he cancelled the transaction and 
removed his card. And he didnt request for the machine to dispense any funds. Mr P 
explained that  after his card was returned  he waited around a minute after the 
transaction had finished before going to the supermarket then returning home. He then 
checked his balance online and noticed his account had been debited by £500 so contacted 
HSBC. 
HSBC contacted Bank L who provided them with information to show nothing unusual 
had been reported with the machine that day. And the funds had dispensed without any 
problems. So HSBC didnt refund the money to Mr P. 
Mr P wasnt happy with HSBCs response so complained to our service. An 
investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. He didnt think that HSBC had acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Ps claim.  He thought Mr P had consented to the transaction and was satisfied 
that there wasnt enough evidence to indicate theyd been a problem with the machine that 
day.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators outcome so its been passed to me for a decision. In 
summary he said:
He didnt choose the amount and didnt consent for the £500 to be dispensed.
He simply pressed cancel and didnt collect any funds.
 
As Mr P didnt agree with our investigators opinion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so I dont think HSBC need to do anymore here, Ill explain why below.Authorisation:
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ps genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr P consented to the withdrawal being 
made.
I understand that Mr P says that after entering his card and PIN into the cash machine on 
the 25 July 2019 he didnt select £500 or request any cash to be dispensed from the 
machine. Ive thought about what this means in terms of whether Mr P consented to the 
transaction, and on balance Im satisfied he did  Ill explain why. Mr Ps explained that he 
was distracted by the member of the public who warned him that the cash machine wasnt 
working and requested to cancel his transaction. But, the evidence Ive seen doesnt support 
this  theres no indication on the Journal Roll to show Mr Ps transaction was cancelled. 
And I think its more likely than not Mr P in fact pressed £500  possibly via mistake after 
being distracted by the member of the public  instead of selecting to cancel the transaction 
prior to his card being returned. 
Mr P disputes that he asked for £500 to be dispensed, but he also explains that after his 
card was returned no cash was dispensed. So Ive gone on to consider this.
The cash machine that Mr P used wasnt owned by HSBC but by Bank L. Bank L have 
advised there were no problems with Mr Ps transaction. Bank L also provided a copy of the 
Journal Roll which shows Mr Ps transaction and those before and after Mr Ps, and details 
regarding the Purge Bin  which indicates whether surplus funds were left in the machine. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to decline Mr Ps refund.
This is because:
The Journal Roll which HSBC have provided shows that Mr Ps transaction started 
and finished within the space of 50 seconds without any indication that it was 
cancelled. Instead the Journal Roll indicates that the card was removed unlike the 
transaction before which is noted as consumer cancel and abort. 
I can see from the evidence provided that £500 was dispensed from the machine in 
the form of twenty three £20s and four £10s. 
The ATM balance was checked on the 3 August 2019, and although a £10 surplus 
was found this wouldnt explain Mr Ps missing £500. If Mr Ps money hadnt 
dispensed Id have expected £500 surplus in the machine which wasnt the case. 
 
I realise this will be very disappointing to Mr P but Im satisfied that the £500 more likely than 
not dispensed on the 25 July 2019. Im not questioning Mr Ps account, and I think on 
balance its likely Mr P was distracted by a member of public at the cash machine, who may 
have taken his funds. I understand this will be frustrating for Mr P, but HSBCs responsibility 
is to ensure that they executed Mr P's payment instruction, dispensing the £500, and I'm 
satisfied they did this. Therefore this isnt something I can hold HSBC liable for. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to decline Mr Ps refund.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman