DRN-1952447
The complaint
Mr W complains about grammatical errors he found on Nottingham Building Societys (NBS) 
online banking facility. Mr W also complains about the way NBS secure messaging system 
operates. Mr W further complains that NBS took the decision to close his savings account. 
What happened
Mr W had a savings account with NBS. Mr W contacted NBS to highlight a grammatical error 
he found on its website. NBS agreed there was an error but said it wouldnt be fixed 
immediately as other updates to its online system took priority. 
Mr W continued to correspond with NBS via its secure messaging service. He complained 
that he wasnt able to reply to a secure message and had to send a new one to continue 
corresponding about his complaint. NBS responded to Mr Ws concerns but didnt agree an 
error had been made. NBS also confirmed it had taken the decision to close Mr Ws account. 
Mr W complained about NBS decision to close his account and some further information 
about its decision was provided. NBS said the decision was taken to end its relationship with 
Mr W as it wasnt able to provide the necessary level of service.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought NBS had dealt with Mr Ws complaints fairly and that its decision to close his 
account was reasonable. Mr W didnt agree and said that NBS decision to close his account 
was driven by complaints data and that it had failed to treat him fairly, in line with industry 
regulations. As Mr W didnt accept the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Please note that in this decision Im only going to talk about the complaint points set out 
above. I can see Mr W has referred other complaints to our service in relation to NBS. But 
those cases have been dealt with separately. 
Id like to thank Mr W for the level of detail hes provided in bringing the complaint and 
responding to the investigator. If I havent specifically responded to each point hes raised it 
isnt because I havent read and considered it  Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues of this case. That reflects our approach as an informal dispute resolution service. But 
I want to assure Mr W and NBS that Ive read and considered everything provided when 
deciding the outcome of this complaint. 
In line with what the investigator has already said, this complaint relates to Mr Ws concerns 
regarding the grammatical error he found online, the secure messaging service and NBS 
decision to close his account. Ill look at each in turn. NBS accepts Mr W correctly identified grammatical errors on its website and took steps to fix 
it. I can see Mr W was frustrated with the timescales involved in implementing the fix. But 
NBS confirmed it had other systems changes to make that were prioritised over fixing the 
grammatical issues Mr W raised. Our service cant tell a business what to prioritise or how its 
online banking facility should be maintained. 
Ive thought about the impact of the grammatical error on Mr W who has told us it caused 
him distress. I can see that the issue was distressing, but NBS apologised and took steps to 
fix it. I havent been persuaded that there are grounds to award compensation for the error 
and I think NBS apology and referral for a technical fix were a fair way to resolve this part of 
Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W says the way NBS secure messaging systems work makes corresponding difficult. 
Again, I can see that has caused Mr W genuine frustration. But, as Ive said above, our 
service cant tell a business how it should operate or how its systems ought to work. NBS 
told Mr W that he should send a new secure message and I dont think thats unreasonably 
inconvenient. Ive considered whether the way the secure messaging system operates has 
impacted Mr Ws ability to raise his concerns and contact NBS. I havent seen anything that 
indicates NBS secure messaging service has led to mistakes by NBS when dealing with his 
complaints. As a result, Im not going to tell NBS to take any further action. 
NBS terms and conditions say it can close an account for any reason. The terms also say 
NBS will give customers 60 days notice and wont close an account in response to a valid 
complaint. Whilst I understand Mr W feels he has made valid complaints to NBS, I think its 
clear that the relationship between the two parties had broken down. 
Mr W says NBS decision to close his account was motivated by complaints data and that it 
failed in its duty to treat him fairly. But I havent found that to be the case. NBS letters to Mr 
W gave detailed information about the general level of complaints it receives and I think it 
was trying to provide a wider context to its decision to close his account. I havent been 
persuaded the decision was motivated by complaints data.
Looking at NBS actions, Im satisfied the decision to close Mr Ws account was fair and in 
line with the account terms. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman