DRN-4139939
The complaint
Miss C complains about the failure of Independently East Ltd (IEL) to provide information 
about and to return funds transferred to it for investment.
What happened
In June 2015 Miss C transferred £4,000 to IEL to be invested on her behalf. Miss C says she 
hasnt been provided with any paperwork about the investment, she hasnt received any 
returns and despite requests, funds have not been returned to her. Miss C seeks return of 
the transferred funds plus the return she believed ought to have accrued.
IEL say that Miss C was never an FCA client and did not complete any forms. Further, IEL 
did not keep records beyond 6 or 7 years. Further, Mr E acting on behalf of IEL said,
 . .it should not be deemed as wrong to offer or suggest simple best guess guidance to a 
contact, friend or colleague on a purely private basis.
Such private conversation between two consensual individuals cannot in any way be 
deemed as giving full or any, FCA regulated advice  especially without the absence of any 
written contract with signatures . .
Our investigator considered the complaint, having considered the context of the relationship 
with Miss Cs husband and IEL, the above payment trail in combination with Miss Cs 
recollection of events balanced against the limited information from IEL, he thought a 
regulated activity was being undertaken by Mr E acting in his professional capacity for IEL, 
namely the activity of arranging/bringing about deals in investments. Considering all the 
information provided, our investigator was not persuaded that this was a private matter. 
Given the absence of any information about the investments allegedly made and the failure 
to return funds, our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld and 
recommended return of the funds plus a return in line with a 50/05 benchmark plus £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by IELs ongoing failure to engage with Miss C about 
the funds.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On balance, I consider that it is more likely than not that Miss C was introduced to Mr E, 
adviser acting on behalf of IEL, through her husband as he had received investment advice 
from IEL. A copy of Miss Cs bank statement shows that £4000 was transferred to IELs 
account on 1 June 2015, which is consistent with Miss Cs recollection of events that IEL 
was to invest the funds on her behalf.
The information provided by Miss C and her husband shows that the same correspondence 
email and contact number were used throughout by Mr E acting on behalf of IEL and the 
same bank account number and sort code. In absence of any evidence from the IEL, I am 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that the adviser held himself out as acting in his 
professional capacity when Miss C transferred funds for investment in 2015. I find that it is 
more likely than not that Miss C was a customer of IEL for the purposes of the events 
complained of.
The adviser was still in contact with Miss C and her husband as at July 2022, in response to 
an email asking about the whereabouts of the funds, Mr E replied asking to organise a call 
and stating that he had looked after the account for 7 years or 11 years according to Miss C. 
He went on to say,  
Other than not knowing that [Miss C] had changed her bank account  that she has now 
confirmed she had not told me  I am not aware that I have done anything else.
You are welcome to move to another broker and I will not ask for a second chance but we 
do need to speak about the direct return of your funds. 
I find that it is more likely than not that IEL considered there was a relationship with Miss C. 
This email is wholly at odds with IELs assertion that there was simply a private relationship 
or no relationship. I do not consider the advisers account to be credible or reliable.
Mr E ran his business independently under a limited company, Im satisfied that he was an 
employee of IEL and appears to have been sole director. For the avoidance of doubt, as 
detailed above and as found by our investigator, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not 
that at all times Mr E held himself out as acting in his capacity as an adviser for IEL and the 
activities he was undertaking, namely arranging (bringing about) deals in investments for 
Miss C may fairly and properly be regarded as being done by IEL. 
No alternative explanation has been advanced as to what likely happened at the time or 
since. I am satisfied that reasonable time and opportunity has been provided for IEL to 
provide further information, in the absence of any such information and noting the totality of 
all the information provided including consistency of Miss Cs account over time, supported 
by contemporaneous information addressed above, I find that it is more likely than not that 
IEL was arranging (brining about) deals in in investments. Whilst Ive noted Miss C has said 
a recommendation was given to her, I havent seen sufficient evidence to show IEL was 
advising Miss C on investments. That IEL has failed to provide any documents to evidence a 
relationship does not detract from the weight of information which I have reviewed and Im 
not persuaded that Mr E has given a reliable account for the reasons already addressed. 
Furthermore, Im satisfied that the complaint was brought to our service in time. Its clear that 
Miss C reasonably believed that the investments had been made on her behalf and was led 
to believe this over time, Miss C has been clear that IEL reassured her and her husband that 
everything was in hand. And Ive seen that IEL was continuing to communicate with Miss Cs 
husband in or around mid-2017. So, whilst a complaint was raised over six years after the 
funds were transferred, in my view, Miss C didnt reasonably have cause for concern until 
IEL began to be evasive and failed to provide information or return the funds. In the absence 
of anything to the contrary I dont think that would have been evident until July 2019 if not 
later. 
Considering the factors in the round, I agree with the view reached by our investigator that 
this is a complaint our service can consider.I am satisfied that reasonable time has been given for IEL to engage with this process and to 
provide information. There is no good reason for IEL not to have provided documentation 
about the investments it purported to make for Miss C and no good reason for failing to 
explain where the funds currently are especially in light of the email sent in July 2022, 
addressed above. Failure to provide this information is a breach of IELs obligations to Miss 
C as its client as well as its obligation to co-operate with our service.
In my view, Miss C has provided a consistent account about her relationship with IEL and 
the funds she provided for investment. Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that IEL has 
failed to provide documentation to Miss C about where funds were invested, no information 
has been provided about increased capital growth (the alleged aim of the investments), no 
returns have been received from these investments (if made) and the funds have not been 
returned.
As the funds havent been returned and as information is still outstanding, IEL hasnt 
established that it is likely that the investments were made. On balance, Im not persuaded 
that IEL provided clear, fair, and not misleading information to Miss C about the investments 
to allow her to make an informed decision. Miss C was led to believe the funds would be 
invested to generate higher growth and theres nothing to show any return at all and no 
explanation about this. Had clear information been provided, Im not persuaded that Miss C 
would have transferred her funds.
Its also clear that Miss C has been troubled by not having access to these funds and not 
having any information as to the funds whereabouts. She has been put to the trouble of 
chasing for information which ought reasonably to have been available to her from the 
outset. 
On the basis of the information provided, it is my view that it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair and reasonable, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Miss C as close to the position she would probably be in if the money she transferred to IEL 
had been invested as agreed.
Its fair and reasonable for IEL to return Miss Cs funds of £4000 and its plain from the email 
of 2022 that IEL recognised this. But as these funds should have been invested, Ive 
addressed below the benchmark return to be calculated from the date of transfer of funds to 
IEL to date of payment. 
In the alternative, if an investment was made, about which no information has been 
provided, Ive made a reasonable assumption that the value of any such investment is zero 
or its illiquid and its appropriate to treat the value as zero. 
Its not possible to say precisely what Miss C would have done. But I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Miss Cs circumstances and objectives when 
she invested.
To compensate Miss C fairly, IEL must:
Compare the performance of Miss Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable; 
IEL should also pay interest as set out below;
Pay Miss C £250 for distress and inconvenience, addressed above;
Provide details of any calculations to Miss C in a clear, simple format.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Unknown Unknown 
assumed 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This provided Miss C agrees to IEL taking ownership 
of the investment. If it is not possible for IEL to take ownership, then it may request an 
undertaking from Miss C that she repays to IEL any amount she may receive from the 
investment in the future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, IEL should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates 
to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
If there is a fund existing because of illiquid investments, its likely those funds would need to 
be removed for the fund to close. Ive set out this might be achieved if IEL takes over the 
investment. As third parties could be involved as we dont ave the power to tell them what to 
do, if IEL is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to the parties, an upfront 
sum equivalent to five years wort of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous 
year to date), which should provide a reasonable period for the fund to be closed.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive taken into account that Miss C was said to have a medium risk appetite and I think its 
fair to conclude that Miss C was looking for growth on her funds and thats been conceded 
on her behalf.
So, Ive chosen this benchmark for compensation because:
Miss C was looking for capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average fixed rate bond would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Miss Cs risk profile was somewhere in between, in the sense that she 
was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain is investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Miss C in that position. It does not mean 
that Miss C would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this is a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Miss C could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint  I direct Independently East Ltd to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman