DRN-3871974
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim she made under her 
contents insurance policy. She has said Ageas disposed of some of her contents, which it 
shouldnt have.
What happened
In November 2021 some plastic sheds in the garden at Ms Rs property were damaged by 
fire. So, Ms R contacted her home contents insurer, Ageas, to make a claim for the loss.
Ageas appointed a damage restoration specialist to attend the incident. Its role in attending 
was to salvage any items that could be cleaned and returned to their pre-loss state. As well 
as to make a list and dispose of any items that were beyond economical repair. 
The damage restoration specialist said that shed one, and all of the items within it, were 
damaged and beyond economical repair. Except for some bikes, which needed to be 
cleaned and serviced before a decision could be made on whether they were repairable. In 
terms of shed two  it said it was only the structure that was damaged  not anything inside 
it.
Its my understanding that the specialist collected the items that were deemed beyond 
economical repair and disposed of them. 
Following this, Ms R was told that the maximum amount she was entitled to under the policy 
was £2,000. This was because the shed and the items within it were classified as property 
in the open air which carried a maximum of £2,000 cover. 
Ms R said she hadnt been told this when she made her claim. And the items she was 
claiming for were worth more than this amount. Ms R felt that in Ageas disposing of her 
items, before telling her about the limit on her policy, it had stopped her from being able to 
make use of these. So, she raised a complaint about the matter. 
Ageas looked into the matter and said it has given Ms R some misinformation. It said it had 
told Ms R that her sheds would be considered as property in the open air with a limit of 
£2,000. But it had been wrong in not explaining that the items contained in the sheds would 
also be included in this limit too. Ageas apologised to Ms R for the misinformation.
Ms R remained dissatisfied with the matter. So, she referred her complaint to this service for 
an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. And felt Ageas apology for not telling Ms R the 
facts sooner was fair and reasonable. They didnt recommend that Ageas do anything 
further. They said this was because even if Ms R had been told the information sooner, the 
items would still have needed disposing of, given they were beyond economic repair.
Ms R didnt agree. She said if the items had not been disposed of, she could have made her 
own decision as to what to keep, and what to throw away.
Because Ms R didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I appreciate this is going to be disappointing for Ms R  its clear she feels strongly about the 
matter. But Ive explained why below.
Ive reviewed the cover under Ms Rs policy. And having done so, I can see Ms Rs policy 
explains that it provides cover for the contents of an outbuilding, up to £5,000. Outbuildings 
are specifically defined within the policy document  and dont include any structure made of 
PVC (plastic), or any building not on a permanent foundation or base. Ms Rs sheds were 
plastic, and freestanding. Which means they arent considered as outbuildings. So, her claim 
couldnt be considered under that section of the policy.
Ms Rs policy does provide another element of cover though, which would give cover for the 
plastic sheds and their contents. This being cover for property in the open air. This has a 
limit too  which is £2,000. This means for Ms Rs loss, the limit to cover is £2,000. Ms R 
hasnt disputed that this is the cover under the policy. Rather, she has raised concerns with 
the way Ageas handled her claim.
Ageas has accepted that it misinformed Ms R at the beginning of her claim. It didnt explain 
that that the above items were all included within the £2,000 limit. And, it has accepted that it 
disposed of the items it took from Ms Rs property, before telling her of this limit. 
As Ageas has accepted this, I dont need to look into that any further. Ageas should have 
provided Ms R with the correct information initially  in line with its obligations to deal with a 
claim promptly and fairly. 
Instead, Ive needed to think about whether Ageas needs to take any further action to put the 
misinformation right. And based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Ageas doesnt need to do 
anything more.
I appreciate that Ms R has said that if the items werent disposed of, she could have made 
her own decision as to what to keep, and what to throw away. But a damage restoration 
specialist, who reviewed the items, noted that all of them were beyond economic repair. So, 
Im satisfied none of the items taken and disposed of were salvageable. So, returning the 
items to Ms R wouldnt have made a difference. She would still have had to throw them 
away  and only received a settlement up to the limit within her policy.  Given this, I dont 
require Ageas to do anything further in this respect.
I do think that being correctly informed of what was included in the property in the open air 
limit would have been frustrating for Ms R. Ageas has recognised this and apologised for not 
telling her the right information sooner. I think this is sufficient to recognise the upset caused 
to Ms R  given that Ageas mistake has had a minimal impact  given the above findings 
that no further loss to Ms R was caused. So, I dont require Ageas to do anything more. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman