DRN-2692644
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the way Saga Services Limited administered her annual travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R took out an annual policy with Saga in June 2018. Saga sent Mrs R a renewal quote 
in May 2019 which included worldwide cover. Mrs R called Saga to ask it to remove full 
worldwide cover from the quote. This reduced the quote for annual cover to £150. During the 
call, Mrs R told the call handler that she was only going to be taking one holiday that year 
and enquired whether she might be better taking out a single trip policy. The call handler told 
Mrs R that a single trip policy would be more expensive and so Mrs R opted to take up the 
annual policy quote. 
In February 2020, Mrs R booked a trip to a country Ill call A. She was due to travel in 
November 2020. Ahead of Mrs Rs scheduled renewal date in June 2020, she got in touch 
with Saga because shed learned that the policy insurer planned to remove cover for all 
claims related to Covid-19. Shortly afterwards, Saga sent Mrs R renewal paperwork which 
explained that there would be no cover for any Covid-19 related claims. 
Mrs R was unhappy because it meant shed effectively been left without cancellation cover 
for her trip, which she felt was likely to be impacted by Covid-19. She felt that if shed been 
offered a single trip policy back in 2019, rather than taking out annual cover, shed likely 
have done the same thing in February 2020, when she booked the trip to A. If shed done so, 
she felt shed have been covered for the cancellation of her pre-booked trip. She asked us to 
look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. He asked Saga what price 
Mrs R wouldve been charged for a single trip policy for the holiday she took during the 
2019-20 policy year. Saga told us this wouldve cost around £394. As this quote was more 
than double what Mrs R paid for her annual policy that year, he thought it was most likely 
that Mrs R still wouldve taken up the annual quote offer. So he didnt think Saga had done 
anything which it needed to put right.
Mrs R disagreed. Ive summarised her response. When she called Saga in May 2019 to 
discuss the renewal quote with it; the call handler had discussed a new option which allowed 
policyholders to vary the level of cancellation cover, which in turn affected the overall price. 
She felt the investigator had tried to read her mind and had failed to take into account the 
fact that shed asked for a single trip quote which hadnt been given, even though shed been 
given multiple options for annual cover. And she said that a big disadvantage of annual 
policies was that an insurer could withdraw cover at renewal, even if a holiday was booked 
prior to renewal. She considered that Saga shouldve highlighted this.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it clear that this decision 
will only consider Sagas actions in administering Mrs Rs policy. Ive made a separate 
decision about her insurers decision to withdraw cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
First, its important I explain that any decisions about whether or not to offer insurance cover 
to an existing policyholder at annual renewal and if so, on what terms, are down to an 
insurer. Saga isnt responsible for the policy insurers decision to exclude Covid-19 related 
claims. Its role was to make sure this was highlighted to policyholders in any renewal 
paperwork it sent to them. In this case, its clear Mrs R was already aware that the policy 
insurer likely intended to remove Covid-19 cover before Saga sent her any renewal 
documentation. When Saga did send Mrs Rs quote in May 2019, I can see that the Covid-
19 restriction was set out on the Insurance Product Information Document. So I think it met 
its obligation to provide her with clear information.
Ive next turned to consider whether Saga ought to have provided Mrs R with a single trip 
quote in May 2019. And, if itd done so, whether I think Mrs R wouldve acted any differently. 
Mrs R was initially quoted a higher price on the renewal paperwork she was sent in May 
2019. She called Saga to remove a specific area from the policy, which resulted in the price 
reducing to £150. I understand from Mrs R that cancellation limits were also discussed, 
which had an impact on the overall annual quote.
It seems to me that if Mrs R asked for a single trip quote, this ought reasonably to have been 
given. It isnt clear why Sagas call handler didnt provide Mrs R with a quote for the cost of 
insuring the one holiday she had planned that year. (Although it was open to Mrs R to follow-
up getting a single-trip quote during her call if this was something she was particularly 
interested in.) But in order for me to find that this failure to provide Mrs R with a single trip 
quote caused her to lose out, I need to be persuaded, on balance, that she wouldve taken a 
different course of action.
As I set out above, the investigator asked Saga to produce a single trip quote for the trip Mrs 
R took during the 2019-20 policy year. Saga told us the insurer wouldve charged around 
£394 for single trip cover. This is in comparison to the £150 Mrs R paid for the annual cover 
she took out. Given the price difference of around £244 between the two policies and taking 
into account the fact the annual policy provided cover for a full year, like the investigator, I 
too think its more likely than not that Mrs R wouldve still taken up the annual quote. 
I appreciate that Mrs R says that Saga didnt explain that at each renewal, the insurer could 
change the terms on which it offered cover and the potential impact on holidays which were 
scheduled to take place post-renewal. As the investigator explained, at each renewal, a new 
contract of insurance is formed. But in May 2019, the Covid-19 pandemic hadnt begun and I 
dont think either financial businesses or their customers couldve reasonably foreseen the 
unique and unprecedented impact on travel. So again, I dont think that even if Saga had 
explained the possible impact of changing cover at renewal, it wouldve affected Mrs Rs 
decision to take up the annual policy in May 2019.
So overall, while I sympathise with her position, I dont think Saga did anything wrong which 
it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman