DRN-3735526
The complaint
Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has treated him unfairly in 
relation to his credit card transaction which paid towards a holiday.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S used his Barclays credit card to pay towards a holiday due to start 
in mid-September 2020. The cost was well over £3000 and was for a flights and 
accommodation package for four people. He bought it from a company Ill call Firm V. As 
the departure date approached, Mr S says he had some concerns regarding travelling due to 
the Pandemic which had taken hold since his initial booking. 
Mr S says he tried to talk to Firm V repeatedly about altering the holiday but struggled to get 
through. Mr S points to not being issued tickets to travel and says the package wasnt 
supplied so he should have a full refund. So he complained to Firm V. 
Firm V says that in discussion between the parties it was clear that Mr S and his party were 
not going to travel, so it didnt issue the tickets. So when Mr S complained to it after the 
departure date, it told him that it had been told they were not going to travel, so it didnt issue 
the tickets but nevertheless the flights and accommodation were available and the terms of 
the contract meant that Mr S wasnt entitled to any money back. Unhappy with this position 
Mr S took his complaint to Barclays.
Barclays says it considered the matter, and having done so, it didnt think it needed to refund 
him. It said it raised a Chargeback and that it was defended by the Merchant, Firm V. It said 
it also considered its obligations under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and 
because Firm V explained that the flights and accommodation were available, Barclays 
concluded that there was no breach or misrepresentation that Barclays should be held 
responsible for. So Mr S, still unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Barclays didnt have to do anymore. And Mr S remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive concluded that Mr S complaint is unsuccessful here. I shall explain why.
Mr S used his Barclays credit card to pay Firm V for the holiday. This means that if certain 
criteria are met Barclays can have certain responsibilities to Mr S which arise from the 
relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In 
summary in certain circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr S to hold 
Barclays liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
agreement made. In essence Barclays can be held responsible for a like claim against Firm 
V.
Furthermore Mr S Barclays credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by the 
card scheme operators (not Barclays). And this scheme has rules which includes giving 
Barclays an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the 
Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers and the ultimate decision maker on 
such chargebacks is the card scheme operator itself and not Barclays. So it is possible that 
Barclays could take the Chargeback process as far as possible and Mr S still not be 
successful.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Barclays and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr S fairly. This decision isnt directly a decision 
about Firm V, which isnt within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and 
S75. It is about whether Barclays considered the dispute properly through the two processes 
Ive described. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr S doesnt dispute that he used him Barclays credit card here. So I dont think Barclays 
couldve challenged any such transaction on the basis Mr S didnt properly authorise such a 
transaction, given what Ive just set out. Barclays is required to consider whether there is a 
reasonable prospect of success when it is considering whether to go through the 
Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the process, then it must do so properly. 
And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there remains a 
reasonable prospect of success.
Barclays raised a chargeback here and pursued it even after an initial rebuttal by the 
Merchant Firm V. I can see that Firm V made clear that the services were available during 
the chargeback process to Barclays. Considering the scheme rules, the chargeback reasons 
and the information Barclays received during the chargeback process, Im not persuaded 
that the chargeback continued to have a realistic prospect of success. I think on balance had 
the chargeback continued it would have been ultimately unsuccessful as I think the package 
was available. So I dont think Mr S has lost out because of what Barclays did.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ss claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. Im not persuaded I need to make a finding at this point because for 
other reasons I have decided that Barclays doesnt need to do anymore in relation to this 
complaint as Ive mentioned. 
For Barclays to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that 
the supplier (Firm V) either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to 
Mr S which made a difference. Barclays has considered the matter and decided there is 
insufficient persuasive evidence to show that Firm V breached or misrepresented the 
agreement. And for me to conclude that Barclays is liable Id have to decide its consideration 
of the matter had been unfair.
When the booking was made Mr S agreed to the terms of the contract which included a term 
that stated that were Mr S to cancel between 14 days and the departure date there was a 
100% cancellation charge, or in other words, he would be liable for the entire cost of the booking whether or not he travelled. Mr S has been clear that he didnt cancel the holiday 
and there is no persuasive evidence saying he wished to cancel the holiday to Firm V. He 
has also provided evidence of emails and attempted calls with Firm V within that period 
leading up to the departure date. I also note that neither before that period or at any time up 
to the departure date is there any persuasive evidence of Firm V and Mr S both agreeing to 
change the holiday. So it is clear to me that Barclays can fairly take the position that Mr S 
should reasonably have been aware in the days before departure that he was liable for the 
full cost of the holiday whether or not he and his party travelled as per the contract terms.
Mr S points to the tickets for the holiday not being received. Firm V points to discussions it 
says it had with Mr S where it says Mr S said he wasnt prepared to travel. There is some 
dispute as to what exactly happened here. Accordingly I should thus be precise that in 
making findings in this case I must apply the civil test, namely the balance of probabilities. Or 
in other words what I think is more likely to have happened.
The discussions in the days before departure
I can see an email dated two days prior to departure that Firm V said to Mr S that should 
you decide not to travel it would be at 100% loss as per our terms and conditions. This was 
in a one sentence paragraph in what Id describe as a clear and relatively concise email. I 
think this is evidence of Mr S and party having concerns about travelling and talking to Firm 
V about this. But, as Mr S has argued, he could have still travelled, and the required covid 
testing issue wouldnt have necessarily prevented him and his party travelling. But it is 
abundantly clear that Firm V had informed Mr S of the terms agreed and that he was obliged 
to pay if he decided not to travel. This email also states:
Upon further investigation we confirmed that your villa and flights remained unaffected and 
there are no FCDO restrictions in your chosen destination, Therefore we were able to 
provide you with the holiday that you booked and paid for.
So clearly Mr S and party could travel if they so wished as their holiday wasnt prevented by 
pandemic restrictions placed either in England or at the destination. So its clear the contract 
hadnt been frustrated as Firm V is clear it could legally provide the booking made.
Mr S has not argued that he was denied entry to the flights or denied entry to the 
accommodation, nor has he provided any evidence to support that he was denied entry to 
the flights or accommodation. So it seems clear that he didnt try to travel, and it is also clear 
that there were at least some indications in the days leading up to the departure date that he 
and his party were considering not travelling.
Mr S argues that no tickets were issued to him and it appears implicit in this argument is that 
it was for this sole reason he didnt travel. Firm V says it didnt issue tickets because Mr S 
told it that he and his party werent going to travel. It seems from the evidence that Firm V is 
relying on a discussion with Mr S prior to the departure date. There is no recordings of any 
calls available, but email correspondence is available. So I must decide what is more likely 
to have happened in the round to be able to decide if Barclays has treated Mr S unfairly by 
declining his claim to it.
I can see that five days after the departure date Firm V emails Mr S and says:
You advised (name of staff member) that you were not going to be travelling, that you had 
not arranged your Covid tests which is a mandatory condition of travel to (destination) and 
that you would be escalating this further as you wanted a full refund. Therefore (staff 
member) did not email your travel documents based on your discussion as it would only 
serve to exacerbate the situation further, I understand you tried to call us regarding your tickets as per your email but neither myself or (staff member) have received any requests for 
documentation before travel.
This email also refers to Mr S being advised on Friday morning and what was discussed 
with you both on Friday. It is clear from the tenor of the email that these discussions were 
prior to departure which was on a Sunday. It seems likely the Friday being referred to was 
two days before departure and thus the same day as the emails Ive referred to in this 
decision. And from what Firm V says it would seem the call was after the earlier email on 
that day.
Mr S emails back that same day (five days after the due departure date). I note he does not 
directly contend the assertion that he told Firm V he wouldnt be travelling. If he had not said 
in the discussion Firm V points to what Firm V said he said, Id have expected a reasonable 
person to have called that out immediately as it now seems Mr S was saying he wanted to 
travel on the departure date. If Mr Ss contention that they wished to travel at that time is to 
be relied upon then I must note that this email of Mr S doesnt support this contention. If Mr 
S did wish to have travelled hed have naturally said what Firm V was saying wasnt true and 
probably pointed to other efforts hed made to get the tickets or to board the plane with the 
evidence of the booking he did possess. But this email doesnt show this.
The closest Mr S gets to commenting on the issue of telling Firm V they werent going to 
travel is when he says We never cancelled our booking and were stating understandable 
reservations to travelling on (the departure date). But importantly he does not contend the 
key issue that Firm V is pointing to that he told it he wasnt going to travel on the departure 
date.
More broadly Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of Mr S chasing Firm V for the tickets 
between the Friday two days before departure and the departure time. Rather I can see an 
email later that day asking for a full refund and Mr S asking the rhetorical question about 
how they can still travel without tickets and saying a full investigation by our solicitor in court 
will reveal the truth. This was a full day and a half before the departure flights. Clearly had 
Mr S and his party wished to fly their booking confirmation had sufficient evidence needed to 
check-in for the correct flight. And he had further time on the Saturday to chase the tickets 
which Firm V points to in the email above when it says neither myself or (staff member) 
have received any requests for documentation before travel. I think the whole tenor of Mr S 
email indicates that Mr S doesnt intend to travel as opposed to trying to ensure he can 
travel.
And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of Mr S chasing the tickets on the Saturday, and 
or attending the flights with his party as Ive described and being denied boarding. Both of 
these Id have expected to happen if Mr S and his party were actually intent on travelling. 
So having considered all the evidence Im satisfied on balance that Mr S did indicate it was 
his intention not to travel to Firm V. And I prefer the evidence Ive described due to it being 
more contemporaneous and persuasive than that said by Mr S to this service much later in 
his more recent submissions on the matter.
And having found that Mr S indicated he wasnt willing to travel Im satisfied Firm V were 
entitled to rely on this as a reason not to issue tickets as it was supposed to have done 
bearing in mind the context of the pandemic and what had been said. And I dont think Firm 
Vs not issuing the tickets is crucial here because I dont think Mr S was going to travel 
anyway so I dont think he lost out because of this.
Accordingly I am satisfied that Barclays hasnt treated Mr S unfairly by not refunding him 
either under Chargeback or S75. Accordingly Mr S complaint is unsuccessful.For completeness Ill deal with a couple of other matters. Mr S has made arguments about 
whether Firm V had or hadnt paid the accommodation owner. This doesnt make a 
difference because the contractual relationship between Firm V and the accommodation only 
has bearing on Barclays position if it transpired that Mr S had been denied entry to the 
accommodation and thus Firm V had breached the contract. But Mr S never travelled so 
there is no persuasive evidence showing Firm V didnt supply the accommodation on Mr Ss 
arrival as agreed.
Mr S and the Investigator in this case discussed covid requirements and testing pre-flight. 
But as Mr S wasnt denied boarding on the flight nor denied entry to the destination country 
then whether or not Mr S did or could have had the required covid status evidence isnt 
central to my decision making here. And as a consequence I agree with Mr S summation 
that that the test point is an irrelevance.
Mr S points to Firm Vs terms quoting "......your final documents will be emailed to you 10-14 
days prior to departure" and then commenting As you will appreciate, they were already in 
breach of their terms above before any conversation with them on (the Friday prior to 
departure). I dont consider this to be the sole or key reason for Mr S not going on the 
holiday and I note that this issue doesnt appear to have been the origin of or central to the 
correspondence between Mr S and Firm V in the days before departure but rather Mr Ss 
wish to change the holiday/get a refund. It is clear to me he could have gone on the holiday 
had he wanted to. And I think it would be unfair to make Barclays bear the cost of the holiday 
that Mr S chose not to go when it was available to him.
Mr S also points to Firm Vs email on that Friday which states "should you choose not to 
travel". But that email is superseded by Mr Ss email later that day. And I think Mr S later 
email, along with all the rest of the evidence, shows that Mr S did make it clear he did not 
intend to travel. And I dont think Barclays have treated him unfairly by pointing to Firm Vs 
reliance on all of that.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr S wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr S avenues for recouping the cost of the holiday as is clearly his wish 
is significantly limited. But Im satisfied Barclays has treated Mr S fairly and shouldnt bear 
the cost of this holiday.
Lastly I note Mr S comments about taking the matter to court. As with all legal proceedings I 
would suggest it would be prudent to take legal advice on the matter in order to make an 
informed decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman