DRN-3102739
The complaint
Mrs S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has failed to make reasonable adjustments for
her in line with its legal obligations under the Equality Act 2010.  
What happened
Mrs S has an annual travel insurance policy as a benefit of her packaged bank account.
Each year, Mrs S paid AXA for an additional policy add-on through card details shed
previously given it.
In April 2020, AXA wrote to Mrs S to let it know that it hadnt been able to collect her upgrade
premium. Its letter asked Mrs S to call its accounts team within seven days to make payment
over the phone. During the call, a policyholder would be required to enter their payment
details on to the phone keypad. Mrs S tried to take up this option, but she found that the
Bluetooth hearing aids she used interfered with the call and meant that her card details
werent being recognised.
So Mrs S asked AXA if it was able to make alternative arrangements for her to pay for the
upgrade  such as a bank transfer, or by PayPal. AXA told Mrs S that this wouldnt be
possible, as its systems only allowed manual payment over the phone. But it did suggest
that she could ask another person to make the call on her behalf, or that she could use a
third-party type to talk (text relay) service.
Mrs S was unhappy with AXAs suggestions and she asked us to look into her complaint.
She felt that AXA had breached its duties under the Equality Act 2020 and had discriminated
against her due to her deafness. She said that she couldnt allow anyone into her home due
to Covid-19 restrictions and that giving someone else her card details was contrary to
banking security advice. She also considered that AXA had cancelled her policy without
giving reasonable notice. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had treated Mrs S unfairly. He considered that the issue
with Mrs S Bluetooth hearing aids was outside of AXAs control and that it had suggested
alternative ways she could get in touch to pay the upgrade fee. And he thought AXA had
given Mrs S fair warning that her policy upgrade was going to be cancelled. So he didnt
think it needed to take any action.  
Mrs S disagreed. In summary, she said there was nothing in the policy terms and conditions
that allowed AXA to refuse payments by any other means than the one method which
excluded deaf and hard of hearing people. And she felt AXA was failing to provide her with a
service for no other reason than discrimination.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think AXA had treated Mrs S fairly and why I felt it should pay her 
£100 compensation. I said:
Mrs S has complained that AXA has failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. In other
words, has failed its duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Ive
taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable.
If Mrs S wants a decision that AXA has breached the Equality Act 2010, then shed need to
go to court. I understand Mrs S is considering taking legal action against AXA.
Its clear that Mrs S feels very strongly that AXA hasnt treated her fairly. Its unfortunate that
when the time came to renew her optional add-on cover, her payment details had been
changed by her bank and so the auto-renewal failed. I can see that AXA wrote to Mrs S
promptly to let her know that the payment hadnt gone through and that shed need to call its
accounts team within seven days to pay the upgrade fee. This is what Id have expected
AXA to do. Mrs S tried to call the accounts team and make a manual payment, so its clear
she took steps to try and pay for the add-on cover.
Unfortunately though, it seems the interference from her hearing aids meant that AXAs
systems couldnt recognise the card details she input during the call. It seems to me that this
was very much outside of both parties control and is unlikely to have been foreseeable. And
Im satisfied that were it not for the interference, Mrs S wouldve been in a position to pay for
the add-on using the system AXA had provided.
When Mrs S let AXA know about the problems she was experiencing, she suggested other
forms of payment  like a bank transfer or PayPal payment. I can understand why making a
payment in this way wouldve been a preferable option for Mrs S. Its unfortunate AXA didnt
offer these options, although AXA has told us that its looking at new payment card options
with its security team. Instead, AXA suggested that Mrs S could authorise someone else to
make the payment on her behalf. And in its final response letter, which set out its
conclusions to Mrs S complaint, it suggested she could use a type-to-talk (text relay)
scheme to make payment.
I appreciate why Mrs S was concerned about the security risks involved in giving someone
else her card details to make the payment. And shes told us that due to Covid-19
restrictions, she wasnt able to have another person in her home. Ive looked into the text 
relay service though to consider whether this wouldve been a reasonable alternative for Mrs 
S. This is a specialist service for people who are deaf or hard of hearing. Its regulated by the 
telecoms regulator and is subject to data protection laws.
Mrs S has told us that if shed known about this service, shes likely to have used it. I can
see that AXA did mention the type-to-talk service briefly in its final response letter of 25 June
2020. Although I also note this didnt set out what the service was or how it worked. This
letter was at odds with prior correspondence with Mrs S though, which suggested using the
phone was the only method of payment available to her. And Ive also noted that in post-
complaint correspondence with Mrs S, dated 20 July 2020, AXA reiterated that the only way
shed be able to pay for the upgrade was via the phone. So it seems to me that while text
relay was a suitable alternative for Mrs S to make the payment, AXA gave her only brief and
contradictory information about the options available to her.
AXA has now also pointed out that Mrs S couldve managed her account online and paid for
the upgrade that way. The policy schedules which AXA sent Mrs S in April 2019 and June
2019 both state that: You can now access your policy online. To manage your policy cover,
or register a claim at a time that suits you visit us at  Again, it seems to me that online
policy management mightve been a suitable alternative for Mrs S. But AXA didnt, at any
point, during the complaint (or indeed, until now) suggest this as an option for Mrs S. If it had
done so, I think its more likely than not that this complaint couldve been resolved promptly
and with little upset to Mrs S.
Taking the above into account, I think there were suitable alternatives available for Mrs S tomake payment. So I dont think AXA needed to make further adjustments. With that said, I
dont think AXA did enough to make Mrs S aware of these alternatives and ensure she could
add on the upgrade in time. In some circumstances, I might have directed AXA to add the
upgrade at its cost, to put things right. In this case though, the add-on wouldve now expired.
And given the ongoing travel restrictions, theres nothing to suggest that Mrs S needed to
make a claim on the upgrade which couldnt be paid. So I dont think this would be the right
outcome in this particular case.
I am satisfied though, from all Ive seen, that this matter has caused Mrs S some avoidable
time, trouble and upset. I think AXA couldve done more to explain the options which were
available to Mrs S to enable her to make payment. So I think the fair outcome here is for
AXA to pay Mrs S £100 compensation to recognise the impact its handling of this matter has
caused her.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mrs S said she was happy with my provisional findings.
AXA had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs S has accepted my provisional decision and AXA had nothing more to add, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. So my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold Mrs S complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs S £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman