DRN-1967732
The complaint
Mr H and Ms M have complained that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited mis-sold 
them a personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
In 1990, Lloyds sold Mr H a personal accident insurance policy. The policy, which was 
annually renewable, also provided cover for Ms M.
In 2019, the insurer wrote to Mr H stating that it was going to stop offering the policy and that 
his cover would therefore come to an end when the current annual policy expired in 2020.
Mr H complained to Lloyds that the policy had been mis-sold. He said hed been led to 
believe that the policy would stay in place at least until he reached the age of 65.
Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it would have provided Mr H with the policys 
full terms and conditions at the time of sale. These included a clause under which the 
policys benefits halved when the policyholder reached the age of 65. However, it said it 
wouldnt have guaranteed that the policy would stay in place until then not least because, as 
it wasnt the insurer, this wasnt within its control.
Mr H and Ms M were unhappy at Lloyds response. They referred their complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr H and Ms M didnt accept the investigators findings.
The case has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence from the time of sale is very limited. However, I dont find this surprising given 
that it was 30 years ago. Lloyds has nonetheless provided the policy document which it says 
would have been given to Mr H when the policy was sold. Mr H has additionally provided a 
letter he received from the insurer at the time.
As Lloyds has explained, there is a clause in the policy which says that full benefit is payable 
until the policyholder reaches the age of 65, at which point the benefit levels are halved. 
However, the documents also make clear that the policy is annually renewable. I dont 
regard the clause relating to the reduction of benefits at the age 65 as meaning that the 
policy is guaranteed to be available until the policyholder reaches that age. And I cant see 
any other evidence to indicate that Lloyds gave this assurance to Mr H. As Lloyds has said, 
it couldnt have provided such an assurance because the decision as to whether to continue 
offering the policy was for the insurer to make, and Lloyds wasnt the insurer. Overall, Im 
satisfied that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
In the event, the insurer chose to withdraw from the market and informed Mr H of this in 
2019. This was unfortunate for Mr H and Ms M, who had believed the policy would definitely 
continue until they were aged at least 65. However, I cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds 
did anything wrong.
I note that Mr H and Ms M have also complained about the action of the insurer and I have 
already issued a final decision not upholding that complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman