DRN-2921052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that National Counties Building Society (trading as Family 
Building Society) didnt reduce the interest rate on their mortgage in March 2020 in line with 
reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base rate). Theyve said that when the base 
rate increased those increases were passed on, but when the base rate fell National 
Counties chose not to pass those reductions on.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H applied for this mortgage through a third-party mortgage broker. A mortgage 
offer was issued March 2016 which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. That said 
Mr and Mrs H were borrowing £412,500 over 14 years on an interest-only basis. The product 
was described in the offer as The interest rate charged is National Counties Managed 
Variable Rate for term, currently 2.09%, which will not go below a floor of 1.84% and which 
will apply for the term of the mortgage.
There is a further explanation which says National Counties Managed Variable Rate 
product has a variable interest rate which is set by National Counties Building Society and 
managed independently of both Bank of England bank rate and National Counties standard 
variable rate. This means that, when compared with National Counties standard variable 
rate, the interest rate for the Managed Variable Rate product may vary more often, at 
different times and by different amounts. Before any interest rate change takes place 120 
calendar days notice will be given. The mortgage completed later that same month.
In November 2017 National Counties wrote to Mr and Mrs H to tell them the interest rate, 
and therefore the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going up. The letter said Youll 
probably be aware of the interest rate increase announced by the Bank of England of 2 
November, with an increase in the Bank of England Bank Rate from 0.25% to 0.50%. 
Subsequently, weve reviewed our mortgage rates and we will be increasing the variable 
interest rate by 0.25%.
The letter went on to say the increase would take effect from 1 December and set out what 
the new interest rate and monthly payment would be.
A further letter was issued later that month which explained the date the change would take 
effect was wrong in the previous letter, and in fact the change would be effective from 
26 March 2018. A letter in March 2018 then gave the details of the new monthly payment.
In the meantime, Mr H had written to National Counties in November 2017 saying I wish to 
challenge this interest rate increase. He said the base rate reduction in August 2016 wasnt 
reflected in a decrease in their interest rate, but the rate was now being increased by 0.25%.
National Counties responded on 11 December 2017, to which Mr H replied:
It seems to contain the reassurance I was seeking in the third paragraph which is saying 
that the rate will be below your tracker rates and therefore is loosely linked to base rate.
I did understand that the rate was not formally tied.
National Counties wrote again on 4 January 2018 to explain it wasnt loosely tied; it said:
As you say, the rate applicable to your mortgage is the Societys Managed Variable Rate. 
This rate is completely independent from both the Societys Standard Variable Rate and 
the Bank of England Bank Rate. It is managed separately by the Society, giving the 
freedom to amend the rate independently of other rate movements. This is referred to in 
your Key Facts Illustration, a copy of the relevant page being attached for your information. 
There is no reference or implication in the illustration or product details that the rate would 
approximate the Bank of England Bank Rate.
The Societys decisions will be affected by market conditions, the cost of borrowing and 
other factors. However, the intention is to provide a low variable rate that compares 
favourably to our discount and tracker products, but without the penalties and restrictions 
that apply to these accounts. The rate on your mortgage since inception has been 2.09% 
with a floor rate (minimum rate) of 1.84%. The lowest discounted rate that we have 
available is currently 2.34% with a floor rate of 2.14% and the lowest tracker rate is 2.69% 
with a floor rate of 2.49%. Both of these rates are restricted to a specific time period and 
have early repayment charges applicable if repaid early.
The Managed Variable Rate is available throughout the term of your mortgage with the rate 
only changing when the Society believes that it is necessary due to changes in the relevant 
factors mentioned earlier. No early repayment charges are applicable, and 120 days notice 
is provided before any rate change takes effect. This allows you time to consider whether 
the product remains suitable for your purposes and to change your mortgage if you feel this 
is necessary, before the new rate is applied.
You commenced the current mortgage in March 2016. At the time of the Bank of England 
Bank Rate change in August 2016, the applicable rate of 2.09% was still considered to be 
appropriate so no change was made to the rate. Following the latest rate change in 
November, some of the relevant factors had changed so the Society felt that it was 
appropriate to increase the rate to 2.34%. This change will take effect from 26 March 2018. 
Even after the rate change, this product will have the lowest rate that we currently have 
available.
A further letter was sent in August 2018 which said:
Youll probably be aware of the interest rate increase announced by the Bank of England 
on 2 August 2018, with an increase in the Bank of England Bank Rate from 0.50% to 
0.75%. Subsequently, weve reviewed our mortgage rates and we will be increasing the 
Managed Variable interest rate by 0.25%.
In accordance with the terms of your account, we are giving you 120 days notice of this 
change.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr H contacted National Counties after the base rate reduction. He said The Bank's cut in 
rates was not of course made to 'enrich the banks', it was made to be passed on through the 
system to cut the overheads of business and individuals so they can better survive the 
traumatic events associated with Coronavirus. And I realise that the Society never 
committed to follow bank rate when you offered your loan to us and indeed you have been true to that in raising the rate we pay you above the increases in bank rate since we took out 
our loan, however there was a general understanding based on your past performance, that 
you would not stray far and that inevitably influenced our decision on risk. Indeed that you 
have not strayed far is what you have indeed honoured in our relationship to date and we 
are grateful. We await your decision on rates with keen interest!
Emails passed back and forth, until on 15 April National Counties said there is little value to 
be gained by continuing the discussion as it had already explained its position on the matter. 
In the various email correspondence National Counties mentioned the following points:
Most of the money we lend to customers such as yourselves comes from savers - 
many retired, like you - rather than the Bank of England. We have seen little movement 
in market savings rates and we cannot be a first mover in that market. As a result, there 
has been no significant change for us, as yet, in the cost of the money we have lent to 
you.
We do expect that there will be some change in savings rates and in anticipation of that 
we have reviewed the variable interest rates being paid by our borrowers. Most will be 
reducing, to the extent allowed by product 'floors' (minimum interest rates), from 25 
April. The mortgage product you have - our Managed Variable Rate - is already our 
lowest cost product for interest-only lending and that will continue to be the case, though 
we have decided that we cannot reduce the rate for your mortgage.
the exceptional value you have benefitted from over this time, in maintaining the rate 
unchanged we are giving a bit more weight in our decision making to the needs of our 
other borrowers and to our savers, I'd remind you that one of the features of your 
mortgage is that it can be repaid at any time with no early repayment charge.
 our interest rates are set through the exercise of our commercial judgement, taking 
account of the interests of the Society's membership as a whole and the prevailing 
competitive, financial, economic and regulatory conditions. The Bank of England, which 
regulates the Society through the Prudential Regulation Authority, requires us to run the 
Society prudently. Our commercial judgement to date has been that there has been no 
need to vary the Managed Variable Rate by reducing the already relatively low interest 
rate, for the reasons previously outlined. That may change in future of course.
As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with what National Counties said they referred their complaint 
to this service. In their complaint to us they acknowledged they knew this wasnt a base rate 
tracker product but that as a variable rate product they expected it to vary downwards as 
well as upwards. They said to use the term variable rate was a misrepresentation and 
amounts to a breach in the terms on which the loan was sold to them.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
National Counties had made Mr and Mrs H aware of the type of interest rate they were 
taking out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and he 
thought National Counties had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no contractual barriers to Mr and Mrs H either taking a new product with 
National Counties or moving their mortgage to a new lender if they felt the interest rate 
was no longer competitive.The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant National Counties needed to 
offer support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. 
The current interest rate of 2.59% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage 
market, particularly for a product offering such flexibility.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said, in summary:
The dictionary definition of the phrase variable rate is denoting or relating to a loan or 
savings account with an interest rate that may be changed in response to economic 
conditions.
My complaint is about whether the interest rates should have been reduced, particularly 
in the economic conditions which have prevailed since April 2020 sharpened by the fact 
that even though base rate has risen and fallen they have only reacted to the rises and 
not the falls which I consider a breach of their duty to me.
When I was considering the loan I took advice on what was the meaning of the words 
variable rate and I found when I looked myself and confirmed by the advice of my 
broker, so having taken suitable professional advice, that a variable rate loan is one 
where the rate varies up or down depending either on specific criteria or if there are 
none, in accordance with economic conditions. This loan has no specific criteria so it 
varies on economic conditions.
NCBS chose to use that phrase in their contract with me and it is binding on them. It 
means that, given the use of the word may they do not have to move from the rate 
offered initially at all but if they start to do so they have to move it in accordance with 
economic conditions subject to their specific conditions namely Clause 5.3 if upwards 
and not lower than 1.84% if downwards.
Put another way the use of the words variable rate in their offer was a representation 
inducing contract concerning how they would operate the mortgage upon which I relied 
and my broker did too.
It matters not that I can go elsewhere without penalty because there is nowhere else 
which offers a loan on these terms.
Because this is a matter of interpretation of a contract I am entitled to ask you to 
confirm that your draft decision is backed by formal legal advice.
 whilst understanding and accepting that this loan was not specifically linked to any 
specific bench mark such as Libor and that there were words used which addressed 
some factors, including Libor does not alter the fact that it was fundamentally 
represented and sold as a Variable Rate Loan which is defined at law as a loan the 
interest rate on which varies both upwards and downwards in accordance with market 
forces
The Family Building Society of its own free will described the product it induced me to 
buy as a Managed Variable Rate Loan. They are therefore contractually bound to 
operate it as a Variable Rate Loan so that it moves up and down with market rates. 
They are not contractually bound to e.g. Libor so have freedom to choose the market 
forces on interest rates they wish to follow but they must broadly follow the market.The Family Building Societys arguments in mitigation are noted but they freely 
decided to call it a Variable Rate Loan or rather a Managed Variable Rate Loan and 
are entitled to argue that it was not a pure Variable Rate Loan, with which I agree. But 
my reply is it may be a certain type of duck but fundamentally it is still a duck and so it 
must still quack and waddle if they are to avoid the charge of misrepresentation 
inducing contract. That means its rates must both rise and fall with the market and not 
just rise.
Mr and Mrs H asked that their complaint be passed to an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr and Mrs H. Its the nature 
of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings 
are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Its for the courts to make findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
make a finding that National Counties acted in breach of the contract in the way it did or 
didnt vary the interest rate. My role requires that I make my decision on what I believe to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So whilst the law is a relevant consideration, 
our service doesnt automatically approach a complaint in the same way that a court might.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs H entered into, and whether 
the nature of the product was fairly explained by National Counties in the paperwork at the 
time. I cant consider the advice that was given, as the mortgage broker was a third party 
acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs H.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
(S06) The interest rate is variable. The interest rate charged is National Counties 
Managed Variable Rate for term, currently 2.09%, which will not go below a floor of 
1.84% and which will apply for the term of the mortgage.
 National Counties Managed Variable Rate product has a variable interest rate which is 
set by National Counties Building Society and managed independently of both Bank of 
England bank rate and National Counties standard variable rate. This means that, when 
compared with National Counties standard variable rate, the interest rate for the 
Managed Variable Rate product may vary more often, at different times and by different 
amounts. Before any interest rate change takes place 120 calendar days notice will be 
given.From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
I understand Mr and Mrs H believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the 
base rate is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate 
products. But Ive not seen any evidence that National Counties told Mr and Mrs H that their 
interest rate would always change in line with the base rate, and their mortgage offer clearly 
explains the interest rate is set independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied National Counties set out the details of the 
interest rate of the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base 
rate. Although Im satisfied Mr and Mrs H werent misled as to the nature of the interest rate 
of the product, I still need to decide if National Counties acted fairly.
Was it fair for National Counties to increase the interest rate in 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions 2014 booklet records the general terms and conditions applicable 
to the mortgage. That says:
5. VARIATION IN INTEREST RATES
5.1 Where we have agreed in the Mortgage Offer a fixed rate of interest for any period in 
respect of any Loan Amount we will not vary the Interest Rate for that period without 
your agreement.
5.2 Where we have agreed a rate of interest which is linked to or tracks an independently 
set rate such as (but not limited to) the Bank of England Official Bank Rate (a 
Reference Rate), the Interest Rate will vary in line with changes in the Reference 
Rate. The exact terms of any change will be set out in the Mortgage Offer. If the 
Reference Rate ceases to exist or be available we may, for the purpose of calculating 
the Interest Rate, select such other independently set rate in substitution for the 
Reference Rate as we may reasonably decide.
5.3 Where Conditions 5.1 and 5.2 do not apply, and subject to the terms of any particular 
Mortgage Offer, we can change the Interest Rate as follows:
5.3.1 We can reduce the Interest Rate at any time;
5.3.2 We can increase the Interest Rate at any time if we reasonably believe that the 
increase is needed for one or more of the following reasons (which may relate to 
circumstances existing at the time or which we reasonably expect to apply in the near 
future):
(a) to respond, in a proportionate manner, to changes in the Bank of England Official 
Bank Rate or changes generally in interest rates charged by our competitors in the 
residential mortgage market;
(b) to enable us to maintain, in a proportionate manner, the competitiveness of interest 
rates paid to our savers or the providers of funds to us, while having regard to the 
interests of our borrowers and our business as a whole;
(c) to reflect, in a proportionate manner, any increase or reduction in costs reasonably 
incurred by us in operating our mortgage business;(d) if it is necessary to maintain our financial strength in the interests of all our 
customers. Any change we make to the Interest Rate will be proportionate to the 
circumstances giving rise to the change;
(e) to enable us to harmonise, in a reasonable manner, having regard to the interests 
of all our borrowers, the interest rates being paid by our borrowers following any 
acquisition or transfer of mortgages or any takeover of, or merger with, another 
mortgage provider; or
(f) to respond, in a proportionate manner, to changes in the law or the interpretation of 
the law, decisions or recommendations of an Ombudsman, regulator or similar 
person, or any code of practice with which we intend to comply.
5.4 We will give you reasonable notice of any such variation under Condition 5.2 and 5.3 
before such variation is to take effect in accordance with Condition 23.
The increases in 2018 were due to clauses 5.3.2(a-d); that is, an increase in the base rate, 
changes in the costs incurred in respect of mortgage lending, maintaining the 
competitiveness of the interest rates paid to savers and maintaining its financial strength. But 
although the condition says the interest rate can change when base rate changes, it 
doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
National Counties has provided information to us in confidence to show why these decisions 
were made. That information is commercially sensitive so Im unable to quote directly from it, 
or to provide the information to Mr and Mrs H. But Ive read it all and Im satisfied with the 
information that has been provided.
National Counties costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
National Counties also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of 
percentage points. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that National Counties costs decreased in March 2020 as 
the costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage in isolation. The base rate decreased, but National Counties incurred additional 
costs across its mortgage function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment 
deferrals meaning mortgage payments werent being made when expected, needing to 
move to a remote way of working, and making its branches Covid-secure, for example. 
National Counties needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those 
people that needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with 
the base rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of 
uncertainty. National Counties made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those 
borrowers that were on a much higher variable rate than Mr and Mrs H (customers were 
paying between 4.19% and 5.79% on different variable rates, compared to the 2.59% Mr and 
Mrs H were paying). That seems a fair decision for National Counties to have made. 
The product Mr and Mrs H have allows them the flexibility to switch to another interest rate 
product with National Counties at any time if they no longer felt the product offered value for money and there would have been no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or other 
contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
They could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if they felt the 
interest rate products offered by National Counties werent competitive in the market. Mr and 
Mrs H have said it doesnt matter that they can go elsewhere without penalty, because there 
is nowhere else which offers a loan on these terms. But if they dont move to another product 
 or to a different lender - then Mr and Mrs H will remain on the 2.59% Managed Variable 
Rate  which National Counties may or may not vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in 
the future. 
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 2.59% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product offers. 
However, if Mr and Mrs H dont agree they have the option to remortgage to another lender 
and the only cost currently of ending this National Counties mortgage is a £100 mortgage 
exit fee (as set out in their mortgage offer). 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied there were no contractual barriers preventing 
Mr and Mrs H from coming out of this mortgage product if they wanted to look for another 
interest rate either with National Counties or elsewhere. The fact they cant find a 
comparable mortgage product isnt something I can take into account, as that isnt a barrier 
that was put in place by National Counties.
Mr and Mrs H have said this doesnt meet the dictionary definition of variable rate, which 
they have given as denoting or relating to a loan or savings account with an interest rate 
that may be changed in response to economic conditions. But surely it does meet that 
definition because due to economic conditions the rate wasnt changed in 2020.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Hs frustration that their mortgage interest rate wasnt 
reduced, Im satisfied National Counties didnt act unfairly when it didnt reduce the interest 
rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr and Mrs H may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman