DRN-4298696
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt refunded the full 
amount of £14,500 which he lost when he fell victim to an impersonation scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have also been set out 
previously by the investigator. So, I dont intend to repeat everything again here. Ill only 
provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In December 2022, Mr D fell victim to an impersonation scam. He was contacted by an 
individual claiming to be from an e-commerce company, with whom he already had an 
account. Mr D was told that several purchases totalling £4,000 had been approved on his 
e-commerce account. 
Mr D followed the callers instructions and, under the guise of preventing the completion of 
these purchases, two faster payments  £10,000 and £3,500  were made from his 
Nationwide account to another individuals account. A third payment was detected by 
Nationwides systems as unusual and was prevented. The caller then asked Mr D to register 
his card with a money remittance service so that a compensation payment could be made to 
him. Following this, two card payments were attempted but these were also blocked by 
Nationwide. Mr D realised hed been scammed when he didnt receive the promised 
compensation and the caller asked him to purchase gift cards from his local shop. 
Nationwide was able to recover £10 from the beneficiarys account. It also refunded 50% of 
the remaining loss under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr D submits he didnt realise at the time that hed made the payments. So the first 
thing I need to decide is whether, on balance, I think he authorised the disputed 
payments. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), broadly speaking, Mr D 
is responsible for any payments that he has authorised, and he isnt responsible for 
unauthorised payments. The PSRs explain that authorisation depends on whether 
the payment transaction was authenticated correctly and whether the consumer 
consented to it.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute over whether the payment transactions were 
properly authenticated  Mr Ds security credentials were used on both occasions 
given hes told us he logged on to his Nationwide account and entered the payment 
details. Thinking about consent next, in the context of PSRs this isnt the same as 
informed consent. If a customer uses the agreed form and procedure for making a 
payment order, then theyve given consent. 
Nationwides terms and conditions set out the form and procedure for making 
payments to another account  providing information about where the payment is 
going (i.e., account details and the amount). The terms state that Nationwide also 
checks that the payment request has come from the customer. It does this by asking 
a combination of log in / security details, biometric information, card reader, security 
codes, and confirming the payment details. Given Mr D would have needed to 
complete the agreed steps (i.e., logging on, entering the payee account details as 
well as the amount, and confirming those details), under the PSRs hed be 
considered to have consented to the transactions. 
Mr D says he didnt realise payments were being made at the time  he questioned 
why he was keying the transaction amounts and the caller told him they were 
numerical codes to block the payments and not amounts. I acknowledge that he 
might not have fully understood what was happening at the time and was likely 
tricked into taking the actions that he did. But thats not a consideration under the 
PSRs in whether the payments were authorised. As Im satisfied that the transactions 
were authenticated correctly and that Mr D consented to them, theyre considered 
authorised. And that means the starting position is that Mr D is liable for the 
payments.    
Theres no dispute that Mr D has been the victim of a scam. Under the provisions of 
the CRM Code, both the payment service provider and its customer have obligations. 
If it can be shown that the customer has met their requisite level of care, then they 
will receive full reimbursement. If the customer has not done this, then it is for the 
firm to show that it has met its obligations under the Code. If a firm has not met its 
obligations, then, subject to any liability by the bank which received the money, it will 
be liable for 50% of the customers loss.
Nationwide has already accepted its actions fell below the required standards. 
I understand that Mr D doesnt recall seeing any warnings at the time of keying in the 
payment details, but the evidence suggests otherwise. Nevertheless, Nationwide 
accepts that the warning it provided him wasnt effective in compliance with the 
Code. But Nationwide also submits that Mr D hasnt met the requisite level of care, 
which means it is only liable to reimburse him in part. So, Ive gone on to consider 
that next. 
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr D had 
reasonable basis for believing that the transaction and/or the person he was 
transacting with was legitimate. I say this because:
oWhen questioned about it, he said he didnt check that the number hed 
received the call from did in fact belong to the e-commerce company. No 
attempts were made to verify that the call was genuine. 
oThe caller showed Mr D the purported purchases on his e-commerce account 
after he downloaded the remote access software. But Mr D didnt verify this 
information independently by logging on to his e-commerce account and 
checking the status for himself. oMr D has previously made faster payments from his Nationwide account, so 
its reasonable that he would have known what the payment process looks 
like. Yet he completed the same steps and authorised the scam payments, 
including selecting friends and relative as the payment purpose, despite the 
caller claiming that the information he was being asked to enter in the 
payment fields were numerical codes to block the purchases.         
Given neither Nationwide nor Mr D met their obligations under the Code, I find that 
the 50% reimbursement which Mr D has already received from Nationwide is fair in 
these circumstances. 
Notwithstanding the reimbursement under the provisions of the Code, if I were to 
consider whether Nationwide could have prevented the payments from being sent in 
the first instance, Im not persuaded that the overall outcome would change. This is 
because even if I were to make a finding that Nationwide ought to have questioned 
the payments before releasing them, and that this would likely have stopped Mr D in 
his tracks, I would then go on to consider whether he is partly to blame for what 
happened. And whether it would be fair to make a deduction for contributory 
negligence. Much for the reasons Ive given for why I dont think Mr D had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payment or the person he was transacting 
with was legitimate, Id be concluding that he is equally responsible for what 
happened and so it would be fair to make a 50% deduction for contributory 
negligence.    
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, and Im sorry to hear about the 
situation hes found himself in. However, Im not persuaded that Nationwide needs to do 
anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Nationwide 
Building Society has already fairly resolved it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman