DRN-4323008
The complaint
Miss T complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost to a scam.
What happened
Miss T was looking for a place to rent. She found somewhere suitable listed on a popular 
social media marketplace. 
She contacted the person who created the advert. They advised theyd moved to another 
country, but that the rental could be arranged through a well-known holiday rental website 
(that Ill call D). They also sent Miss T photographic identification.
Miss T was told shed need to pay two months rent and a deposit to Ds escrow account. D 
would also arrange a viewing of the property once it received payment. If, following the 
viewing, Miss T didnt want to rent the property, shed receive a refund. 
Miss T made a payment of £1,490 by way of faster payment from her Monzo account. Soon 
afterwards the recipient claimed not to have received the money and asked Miss T to pay it 
again. Miss T got in touch with Monzo and the firm which received the payment shed made 
and it transpired that shed been the victim of a scam. 
Monzo declined her claim. It said that she hadnt carried out enough due diligence, the social 
media website was not an appropriate place to find a long-term rental and D did not offer the 
services the fraudster claimed. 
She referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators upheld her complaint. 
They thought that Miss T had carried out appropriate checks and were of the view that the 
scam was quite convincing. So, under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), 
which Monzo has agreed to adhere to the principles of, Miss T didnt lack a reasonable 
basis for believing that the offer was legitimate.
Monzo continued to disagree, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Miss T is responsible for any payments shes authorised 
herself. But, as set out, the CRM Code requires a firm to reimburse victims of APP scams 
that fall under its provisions, unless a firm can demonstrate that one of the exceptions to 
reimbursement apply. In this case, Monzo says that Miss T lacked a reasonable basis for 
believing that she was dealing with a legitimate provider of accommodation.
Ive thought about this point carefully and I think that the matter is relatively finely balanced. 
The advertised price of £550 per month, for a two-bedroom apartment including all bills, 
seems low. Miss T checked other well-known property listing websites, so I think she would 
have been aware of that. But I dont think the price was so low that Miss T ought to have 
thought it was too good to be true. I have been able to find properties for a similar monthly 
rent in the same area, albeit without the inclusion of monthly bills and for a longer rental 
period.
I dont agree with Monzo that the fact the property was listed on an online marketplace was 
necessarily a red flag. That online marketplace is little different from a classified 
advertisements service and, while I recognise that it is rife with scams, it doesnt strike me as 
a particularly unusual place to find a property. 
It is true that D does not offer the service that the fraudsters claimed they did. They do not 
have agents and, as of the time of writing, dont appear to allow the booking of long-term 
rental properties. A quick search online of D and long term rental shows that other people 
have either fallen victim to or, at least, become involved in the same scam. 
Nevertheless, the CRM Code allows me to take into account Miss Ts relatively young age 
and the fact that she says shes never used D before. The hyperlink provided by the 
fraudster to Miss T no longer seems to work. But it appears that she sent a screenshot of the 
website to Monzo. Its quite a convincing mock-up of Ds genuine website (though I note the 
checkout date shows an error message). Ive also seen the email which appeared to come 
from D which confirmed the booking and asked for payment. I think it also looked quite 
convincing. I note that Miss T received both photographic ID and a photograph of the seller 
that seemed to corroborate the fraudsters story about being overseas. And its clear that 
Miss T, at least initially, believed that her money was safe because she was making the 
payment to D, rather than directly to the landlord. I think that belief was reasonably held, 
such that I dont find it unreasonable that she made the payment prior to seeing the 
apartment. I also note that she did not make a second payment and took sensible steps to 
ensure that her money had either been received by the recipient or returned to her. I think 
this suggests that she wasnt generally acting carelessly. 
Overall, while I accept this is a finely balanced point, the evidence persuades me that Miss T 
did not lack a reasonable basis for believing that she was dealing with a legitimate landlord 
and paying for genuine services. Therefore Monzo should refund her in full under the 
provisions of the CRM Code. 
Finally, I consider the £75 paid to Miss T for the delays in assessing her complaint to be 
reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay 
Miss T:
-The amount lost - £1,490, less any amounts already recovered or returned.
-8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date Monzo declined Miss Ts 
claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman