DRN-1471122
Complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) caused him stress and inconvenience following the 
delay in returning a rejected bank transfer to his wifes Individual Savings Account (ISA) and 
that he wasnt kept informed by TSB when the funds were finally returned to his account.  
Background 
Mr S attempted to make an online bank transfer to his wifes ISA but was unable to do so 
because of online problems TSB were experiencing at the time. He then visited a local 
branch to make the payment. He instructed TSB to make a Clearing House Automated 
Payment System (CHAPS) transfer and was told by TSB because of issues with its scanner 
the payment was delayed to the next business day. 
The payment was rejected by his wifes bank because the ISA needed to be re-registered 
before allowing any funds into the account. It took 25 days for the funds to be returned to Mr 
Ss bank account, during which time he felt TSB didnt keep him informed and TSB then 
failed to tell him when the funds were eventually re-credited to his account. Mr S complained 
to TSB about the poor service.
TSB have said that they accept that Mr S was given misleading information by a staff 
member about being notified when the funds were returned to his account. TSB say this was 
the responsibility of his wifes bank when it rejected the payment. TSB also say, because his 
wife hadnt re registered her ISA, the payment was always going to be returned. TSB were 
not members of the CHAPS system at that time, so it used an agent bank to process the 
payment. TSB say the delay in returning the funds was the responsibility of the other banks 
in the transaction. 
TSB have offered to pay £100 to compensate Mr S for his inconvenience and stress and £50 
to cover his time and expenses incurred. Mr S was not happy with their response and 
referred the matter to this service and asked for TSB to be fined for their actions.
The investigator looked at all the available information and in part upheld Mr Ss complaint. 
She felt that £100 wasnt sufficient to cover the inconvenience and stress caused and said a 
sum of £300 would better reflect this. She explained that it was not the role of this service to 
fine banks as its not part of our role to supervise or regulate the business. Both TSB and Mr 
S are unhappy with the investigators outcome, and they have asked for this to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision. I have looked at whether TSB have been negligent during the process 
of making the CHAPS payment and whether the level of compensation they have awarded, 
fairly reflects the level of trouble and upset caused. I can see that Mr S experienced difficulties when attempting to make a bank payment to his 
wifes ISA because of online banking system issues at TSB. He was inconvenienced in 
having to go into a branch to make the payment and then had to wait over three weeks until 
these funds were credited back into his bank account. What happened here is that TSB sent 
the CHAPS payment the next business day, routed through an agent bank as they were not 
members of CHAPS system at that time. 
Mr S complained that TSB did not mention they used a third party bank to make the CHAPS 
payment. I am satisfied that it isnt necessary for TSB to advise their customers of this, 
unless it delays the payment process, which it doesnt.  TSB added further confusion by 
telling Mr S the delay was a result of scanner issues, when they couldnt send a CHAPS 
payment on a Saturday anyway.
Mr S was also upset that the funds were rejected by his wifes bank, but he and his wife 
have received an explanation why these funds were rejected and this was in line with rules 
governing how ISAs operate. If an ISA hasnt had funds deposited for a full tax year it needs 
to be re-registered before any further sums can be paid into the account. What is worth 
noting is the payment to Mr S wifes bank was always going to be rejected by them because 
of this. Following this I am satisfied, like the investigator, the reason why the payment was 
rejected was correct and not the fault of either TSB or his wifes bank. Mr S asked for this 
service to fine TSB and negotiate with the Inland Revenue, but it is not the role of this 
service to impose fines or to supervise or regulate businesses. 
I can see that Mr S would find it stressful not knowing when and if his payment would 
eventually get put back into his account following its rejection, especially given the sizeable 
amount involved here. He should also reasonably expect that this should happen in an 
acceptable timescale. 
While I can see TSB did initially chase the CHAPS payment, they then incorrectly referred to 
this as an International Payment when writing to Mr S, creating further confusion. I am also 
of the opinion that when the CHAPS payment hadnt been returned they could have been 
more proactive in trying to trace the payment, bearing in mind it took 25 days to resolve, it 
was a large amount of money and was causing stress to Mr S. When TSB were investigating 
the whereabouts of the CHAPS payment, it would be reasonable to expect it to have notified 
Mr S when this payment was eventually re-credited to his account.
As far as the investigators redress is concerned, TSB have said they feel the level of 
redress they have already offered Mr S is fair and reasonable but Mr S says it doesnt reflect 
the stress and worry it caused. I am satisfied, on balance, the investigators redress fairly 
reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mr S. While my decision may not be the outcome 
that either party was looking for, I am satisfied that it strikes the right balance and reflects a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and ask TSB Bank plc to pay Mr S £350 in 
total to cover the stress and inconvenience and for his time and costs incurred. This should 
be paid as soon as possible.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman