DRN-3407187
The complaint
Mr C complains about his broker, Arthur J. Gallagher (AJG) telling him to contact his home 
insurer (A) about a problem with the drains at his property. Mr C is unhappy that A 
subsequently didnt reimburse him for the full cost of the work carried out by the contractor 
engaged by Mr C to fix the problem. Mr C feels AJG, having told him to contact A, should 
reimburse him for the different between what he paid his contractor and what he was 
reimbursed by A.
This decision only covers Mr Cs complaint to this service about AJG. It doesnt consider the 
separate complaint made to this service about A, about their only partly reimbursing him.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr C had a problem with blocked drains at his property. He phoned AJG (as 
the broker through which hed taken out a home insurance policy with A) to make a claim for 
the repairs needed to fix the problem. AJG passed Mr C through to A as the provider of his 
home insurance policy. A set up a claim for the repairs to the drains. Mr C arranged for his 
own contractor to attend and clear the drains, charging £1,200 for the work. 
While A accepted the claim, they said that as the cost from the contractor was more than 
what they would have paid their own authorised contractors, they limited the amount they 
were willing to reimburse Mr C to the amount theyd have paid to their own contractors 
(£744). That meant a difference of £456 which Mr C had to bear himself.
Unhappy at not being reimbursed the full amount, Mr C complained to A. But they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr C then complained about A to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint, concluding that A had handled the claim fairly and in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions.
Mr C then made a separate complaint to AJG. Mr Cs complaint was that they should have 
made him aware that his home insurance policy included cover for home emergencies, 
provided by a different insurer (I). As Mr C thought the blocked drains were an emergency, 
he thought ALG should have put him through to I rather than to A.
 
AJG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they said that when Mr C contacted 
them, hed said that there were tree roots growing into his drains. Based on this, theyd 
transferred him to A, as it wasnt an emergency As a non-advisory broker, AJG said they 
would put policyholders in touch with the appropriate claims team at an insurer, based on 
what theyd been told. AJG also noted that it was Mr Cs decision to use his own contractor 
(rather than As authorised contractor) so AJG couldnt be held responsible for As 
subsequent decision to limit the settlement of Mr Cs claim to the cost they would have paid 
to their authorised contractor.
Mr C then complained to this service. He thought ALG should have referred him to I (as the 
home emergency provider) and not to A. In the circumstances, he felt AJG should reimburse 
him the difference between what hes paid his contractor (£1,200) and what hed been 
reimbursed by A (£744).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that AJG hadnt acted unreasonably 
towards Mr C. The investigator thought that AJGs involvement was on a non-advisory basis. 
That is, they werent responsible for handling or assessing claims under the policy. AJG had 
provided the correct details for the provider of the [home insurance] policy (A). A had settled 
the claim in line with the policy and could have either approved the cost of repairs from Mr 
Cs contractors, or used their own contractors to carry out the repairs (at no cost to Mr C). 
The investigator also thought that Mr C should have been aware (from policy documentation) 
that he had separate home emergency cover, so could have contacted them directly if he 
thought the problem was an emergency. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said that his recollection of the call he made to AJG raising the problem with 
the drains was that hed made it clear it was an emergency (and that the property was 
uninhabitable unless something was done immediately). On the point about ALGs role being 
non-advisory, he thought that in putting him onto A theyd given advice and that he should 
have been told [that he had separate home emergency cover]. And in providing advice, they 
should be responsible for (as he saw it) the consequences (that A didnt fully reimburse him 
for the cost of fixing the problem with the drains).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AJG has acted fairly towards Mr C, specifically their telling 
him to contact A (as his home insurer) about the problem with his drains.
 
Mr C maintains that AJG should have told him to contact I (as the provider off the home 
emergency cover under his policy) rather than A. And that in putting him through to A, AJG 
were providing advice and as such, are responsible for his subsequently not being fully 
reimbursed for the cost of fixing his drains. AJG maintain that they didnt act unreasonably in 
transferring Mr C to A, based on what hed described about the blocked drains when hew 
called them. AJG also say that it was Mr Cs decision to use his own contractor (rather than 
As authorised contractor) so AJG couldnt be held responsible for As subsequent decision 
to limit the settlement of Mr Cs claim to the cost they would have paid to their authorised 
contractor.
Having considered both points of view, together with the information and evidence provided, 
Ive concluded that AJG didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr C, so Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion.
The key issue in the complaint is whether AJG acted unreasonably when they transferred 
him through to As claims team when he called to tell them (AJG) about the problem with the 
drains. Mr C says that he made it clear it was an emergency, whereas AJG maintain that this 
wasnt made clear. Unfortunately, there isnt a call recording available of the conversation, 
so its not possible to know exactly what was said. Mr C says that his recollection is that he 
did make it clear it was an emergency. AJG say that he didnt, and their [brief] case notes 
support this. On balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for AJG to transfer Mr C through 
to As claims team, based on what they say was described to them in the call. 
In any event, once through to As claims team, it would have been for Mr C to describe the 
circumstances with his blocked drains. If, as he maintains, it was an emergency then it would 
have been for A t o either (as they did) take on the claim or to refer Mr C to the home 
emergency cover within his policy. In either case, I dont think AJG can bear any responsibility for the subsequent handling and settlement of the claim (including Mr Cs 
decision to use his own contractor, rather than As authorised contractor).
Nor do I agree with Mr Cs point that, in transferring him to As claims team, AJG were 
providing advice to him (and so should bear responsibility for what subsequently happened 
with his claim). While the subsequent handling of the claim by A (and their decision to 
reimburse only part of the cost) is outside the scope of this decision, the responsibility for the 
settlement of the claim lies with A, not with AJG. As their role is non-advisory, they have no 
role in the handling and assessment of claims made under policies that they arrange. So, 
Ive concluded that they cant reasonably be held responsible for As subsequent settlement 
of the claim.
Taking all these points together, I dont think AJG have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman