DRN-2690896
The complaint
Mr M complains about the time it took for Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
(HLAM) to complete the transfer of his shares from another provider.
What happened
On 18 February 2020 Mr M sent HLAM an application form to transfer in some shares from 
another business. The form was received by HLAM on 20 February. Mr M contacted HLAM 
on 1 March for an update and was told that the transfer was in the initial stages of being 
processed. They also told him that he didnt need to take any further action and they would 
provide him with written confirmation when the transfer was complete. 
However, HLAM didnt start the transfer until 18 March. Mr M contacted them on 26 March 
for an update, the person he spoke to apologised for the delay and said that it was due to 
backlogs. Mr M was unhappy with the service hed received - he explained that hed wanted 
to sell the shares and if hed been told that it was going to take as long as it had then he 
would have sold the shares through the other business. 
Mr M then emailed HLAM on 27 March and said that he was intending on selling the shares 
in order to fund his and his wifes ISAs for the 2019/20 tax year so a speedy resolution would 
be appreciated. HLAM chased the other business on 1 April and the transfer was completed 
on 8 April. Mr M then sold the shares on 15 April.
Mr M complained to HLAM who partially upheld his complaint and offered him £150 in 
compensation. They said, in summary:
They thought theyd acted efficiently throughout the majority of the transfer but noted 
that they could have worked slightly quicker in processing the initial application.
They appreciated Mr Ms intention was to sell the shares after the transfer due to 
cheaper dealing charges, but it could have been arranged as a cash transfer and the 
shares could have been sold prior to being transferred. So, they didnt think they 
were liable for any perceived financial loss due to market movements during the 
transfer.
They appreciated Mr M was looking to use the transfer value towards his ISA 
allowance for the 2019/2020 tax year. But he had the option to transfer as cash and 
he was also able to top up his ISA via other methods. 
Mr M then brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary:
He appreciated that had Mr M known the timescales prior to requesting the transfer, 
he could have sold the shares with the other business despite their higher charges.
But he didnt think HLAM could reasonably have known this was Mr Ms intention.
The evidence hed seen showed that Mr M didnt make HLAM aware of this until 26 
March but it was probably too late at this stage for HLAM to have been able to 
intervene and speed up the process. 
If Mr M had informed HLAM of his intention when hed originally submitted the 
request or even earlier in March, then hed agree that they could have done more to 
give Mr M better options on how to transfer the shares in a speedier way but by the 
time they knew of Mr Ms intention, there wasnt any more they could reasonably 
have done.
He didnt think the time the transfer took was unreasonable, even with the delay 
HLAM caused. 
He thought the £150 compensation HLAM had offered was fair in addressing the 
delay they caused.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He thought if HLAM had started the process on 20 
February or 2 March instead of 18 March, the transfer would have completed on time and 
ahead of the ISA deadline. He didnt think it was acceptable for HLAM to say theyd started 
the process but then do nothing until 18 March. 
He also thought HLAM should have had enough staff to deal with tax year end volumes of 
work increasing and highlighted that HLAMs website said:
In most cases transfers take 2-4 weeks
Over half online transfers are completed within 10 days
We keep you updated with progress
He said that if HLAM had started the transfer when they received his form or even when 
theyd acknowledged his email in early March, the backlogs wouldnt have been a factor. 
And if theyd kept him updated and informed him earlier of any delays then he could have 
made different decisions.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the case was passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im sorry to disappoint Mr M as I appreciate that he feels strongly about this 
complaint but Im not going to uphold it, and for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ultimately there isnt a set time frame that HLAM needed to adhere to when 
transferring shares as it can take longer than other types of transfer e.g. cash. 
Im not persuaded that the overall length of time taken to transfer his shares was excessively 
long  although I acknowledge that it couldve been completed a couple of weeks earlier had 
HLAM not made an error. But I can see that theyve acknowledged their error and offered 
fair compensation.
But even having considered that HLAM took longer than they should have to complete the 
transfer, Id then have to consider what financial loss had been caused by the delay. The 
transfer was being made in-specie, this means that Mr M was never out of the market and 
could have sold the shares anytime he wanted. 
I appreciate that hes said that the wanted to wait until the shares had been transferred to 
take advantage of lower fees, but I dont think it would have been unreasonable to contact 
HLAM earlier if he wanted to ensure that the shares were sold and the funds placed in an 
ISA wrapper before the end of the tax year. Had he done so then HLAM could have made him aware of any possible options he had to complete the transaction before the end of the 
tax year. 
Ive also considered the points Mr M has made about the timescales on HLAMs website. 
What is clear is that there is no guaranteed timescale  only guidance that most transfers will 
be completed within 2-4 weeks. Mr M was also told that HLAM would be in touch when the 
transfer was complete. 
The four week period passed on around 20 March and he hadnt received any notification 
that the transfer had been completed. He didnt contact them until 26 March and even then, 
didnt let them know of his intentions until late Friday night on 27 March which left very little 
time until the end of the tax year. However, the transfer request had already been sent to the 
other business on 18 March. There isnt much more HLAM could have done at this point 
apart from chase the other business. They did this on 2 April and the transfer was then 
completed on 8 April. Im not persuaded HLAM could have done much more at the time. 
So, despite making an error in the initial processing of the transfer which caused a delay. I 
dont think HLAM has treated Mr M unfairly. They apologised for their error and paid fair 
compensation. They then processed the transfer within a reasonable timescale. They 
werent sent notification of Mr Ms intentions until aware until 27 March and then took steps 
to chase the business. Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think I can fairly 
ask HLAM to pay any more compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11July 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman