DRN-3431506
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) wrongly declined 
his credit card payment causing him to lose out on a discounted purchase.   
What happened
Mr M holds a credit card account provided by first direct. In November 2021, he attempted to 
make an online purchase. The online retailer was offering the item Mr M wished to purchase 
with a substantial discount. Mr M attempted to complete the purchase using his first direct 
credit card for payment. He says hed successfully used this card with this retailer before and 
his card details were securely stored for future payments.
Despite this, Mr M wasnt able to complete the purchase. The retailer screen flow displayed 
a message indicating his payment authorisation had failed. The message suggested he 
check his billing details, try a new card or contact his bank. Mr M knew his card and billing 
details were correct. So, he called first direct to find out what had gone wrong.
First direct checked their systems to establish the reason for his failed payment. But they 
couldnt find any record of Mr Ms transaction being referred to them. They suggested there 
may have been a communication problem which stopped the authorisation request reaching 
them.
Having attempted a further unsuccessful transaction Mr M called first direct again. He said 
hed received a message saying his card was blocked. Hed previously had a similar 
problem but had then received an SMS text message asking him to contact them. He said 
hed received no such message this time and thought first direct werent treating him fairly. 
First direct again confirmed they hadnt declined a transaction and there was no block 
recorded on his card or account with them. Mr M thought first direct had problems with their 
systems and wanted to raise a complaint.
First direct responded to Mr Ms complaint in writing two weeks later. They said there was no 
record of them declining a transaction on the date in question. They also said there were no 
outstanding security checks which would prevent his card from being used. First Direct 
acknowledged such situations werent uncommon where the network between retailers and 
banks sometimes fails.
Mr M wasnt happy with their response to his complaint. So, he decided to refer matters to 
this service. He wanted first direct to pay him the amount of discount hed lost out on and 
implement improvements to ensure customers are treated fairly in such situations.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think first direct had 
acted unreasonably or unfairly. Mr M disagreed with our investigators findings. He said hed 
provided images of the authorisation failure messages that clearly showed first direct had 
declined the transaction.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a payment Mr M is, in effect, giving the card issuer - in this case first direct - 
authority to pay the retailer, and to debit his credit card account.  Mr Ms instruction is routed 
from the retailer to a merchant acquirer. The merchant acquirer is the financial business that 
provides the retailer with the facility to accept payments. With an online payment, its then 
routed through a payment gateway to the card scheme (e.g. Visa or Mastercard). And then 
sent on to the card issuer  here thats first direct. 
The success of a payment is reliant upon a number of variables. These may include fraud 
checks and authentication together with confirmation of the availability of funds. But a 
successful transaction is also reliant upon the payment network to ensure the payment 
request reaches each party in the chain. Any failure within that network may result in the 
failure to authorise a payment. This can happen at any stage.
First direct have checked all their systems and records in an attempt to identify whether 
payment authorisation requests were received for the transaction(s) Mr M refers to. Theyve 
confirmed they have no record of any such requests. Further, first direct have confirmed 
there were no blocks recorded against Mr Ms credit card account or card. So, it appears 
there may have been a failure in the network chain. Unfortunately, as that chain involves 
several parties, it isnt possible to identify where the breakdown may have been. But as first 
direct were at the end of the process, and no request was received, I cant reasonably say 
that the failure of Mr Ms payment was due to anything first direct did. They wouldnt have 
had any control over the transaction until a request was received.
Mr M has provided this service with images of the messages he received on his computer 
screen when the payment failed. The Authorisation Failed image isnt very clear. But I can 
clearly see the first direct logo displayed. Mr M believes this is evidence that the 
authorisation request reached first direct suggesting the payment was declined by them. 
Credit and debit cards all include an individual Primary Account Number (PAN), often 16 
digits long. The first six digits are the Bank Identification Number (BIN). Each bank has its 
own BIN which enables the retailers card system to identify the bank the card is issued by. 
Dependent upon the system used, this will often result in that banks logo being displayed 
when an online payment is made. But this doesnt necessarily mean that the card issuing 
bank received the authorisation request. Only that the card processing system has identified 
that bank from the card details.
I understand and appreciate why Mr M might think that first directs logo appearing on his 
computer screen suggests it was they who refused his payment authorisation. But thats not 
necessarily the case for the reasons above. I also appreciate that Mr Ms experience will 
have been very frustrating, particularly as it resulted in him losing out on a significant 
discount on his purchase.  But having completed my investigation, I cant reasonably 
conclude that first direct did anything wrong here. Having not received the request, they 
wouldve had no control over what happened.
I want to reassure Mr M that Ive carefully considered all the information and facts available 
when looking into his complaint. And while I realise he will be disappointed; I havent found 
anything to suggest first direct acted inappropriately or treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman