DRN-1110658
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance trading as Tesco Bank charged interest and 
fees when he made a payment on his credit card.
What happened
Mr P used his Tesco Bank credit card to pay towards a balance with another credit card 
provider. Mr P complains he was then charged a £119.70 cash transaction fee and interest 
on the amount he transferred. Mr P says these charges and interest shouldn't apply, as he 
didn't physically take cash out of an ATM - and it should instead be treated as a payment for 
good and services. So he complained to Tesco Bank.
Tesco Bank looked into the complaint but didn't uphold it. It said that a payment towards 
another credit card would be considered a repayment of borrowing - and it's in its terms and 
conditions that this would be considered the same as a cash withdrawal. It did agree to place 
an interest waiver on the account for the next two months, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr P then reversed the transaction to his card and Tesco Bank then refunded the fee and 
interest. 
As Mr P remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. She said that the terms and conditions 
were clear that any repayment of borrowing would attract a fee and interest - and she was 
satisfied that the transaction Mr P made, fell into that category. 
Mr P didn't agree, so the complaint has been passed ot me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information I've seen from both Mr P and Tesco bank, I agree with the 
investigator's outcome, for largely the same reasons. I'll explain why - 
When Mr P signed up to the Tesco Bank credit card he agreed to a number of terms and 
conditions. One of those terms, which both Tesco Bank and the investigator have highlighted 
is the charge for a repayment of borrowing. It is clearly documented that this type of 
transaction will also be subject to interest. Mr P made a payment to another credit card, all 
parties agree to this - so I'm satisfied a fee and interest would be applicable. 
I understand Mr P says that only cash withdrawals from a machine should be classed as a 
cash transaction and his payment should be classed as goods and services - but I 
don't agree. The purchase of goods were made on the third party card, and Mr P is using a 
cash payment to repay that borrowing. So I'm satisfied it should be classed as a repayment 
of borrowing. Most credit providers will offer cards that have the option of a balance transfer to/from 
another card provider, these can sometimes be fee free or at a reduced fee, for a set period 
of time - and usually when the card is opened. I can't see that any promotional offer was 
applicable on this card at the point of the payment being made. 
I can see following the reversal of the transaction, Tesco Bank refunded the fee and the 
interest payment. I find this fair in the circumstances and I'm satisfied they don't need to do 
any more. 
I understand Mr P has said other credit providers have not charged him for similar 
transactions. I'm unable to comment on the actions of other businesses within this complaint. 
I can only look at the actions of Tesco Bank and I'm don't find they have done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman