DRN-4217390
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Santander UK Plc didnt cancel a cheque it sent to her with the closing
balances from her savings and current account, after she asked it to. Mrs O believes that the
cheque for the savings balance has been intercepted and she has now lost out on the funds
that were in this account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case because it was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator and I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond 
before coming to my final decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision:
In March 2020, unbeknown to Mrs O, Santander closed both her savings account and her
current account. She says she only realised this in April 2020 when she tried accessing her
online account. At this point, Mrs O called Santander to ask where her funds were and she
was told that a cheque had been sent to her address in Nigeria.
Mrs O was very unhappy about this, because at the time, she was stuck in Nigeria due to the
pandemic and she had concerns as to whether the cheque would arrive at her address in
Nigeria. Mrs O says she asked for the cheque to be cancelled because she wouldnt be able
to deposit it in Nigeria and she didnt have another bank account where she could deposit
the cheque. Mrs O says she told Santander that she would visit branch once lockdown
restrictions had ended to collect her money.
Mrs O made a trip back to the UK in August 2021 to retrieve her funds. Mrs O says she was
told that the funds had been transferred to a Santander back-office account  and that
Santander would be in touch with her once the funds were available for collection.
Mrs O says Santander contacted her around a week later to come to branch to collect her
money, but only the money from her current account was available  which was around
£49.16. The money from her savings account, which totalled £4,246.66, hadnt been
released.
Mrs O wasnt able to visit the branch again until February 2022, due to lockdown restrictions.
She says the branch manager told her that the cheque had been sent to Nigeria in March
2020 and had been paid into a bank in the UK in September 2020. Mrs O says she wasnt in
the UK at the time the cheque was cashed, nor did she deposit the cheque into any other
account  as she didnt have one.
Mrs O says she told Santander that it appeared someone had intercepted the cheque and
that fraud had occurred. She was unhappy that the cheque wasnt cancelled as she
requested. Mrs O says she didnt hear anything back from Santander until April 2022, after
she had made numerous attempts to contact it.
Mrs O then says she received correspondence from Santander in April 2022, to let her know
that the cheque had been banked on 8 September 2020, with another bank, Ill refer to as
F. Santander suggested that Mrs O contact F herself.
Mrs O says this situation has caused her financial hardship, emotional and mental stress.
And to put things right, shed like Santander to compensate her for the money she has lost
out from the cheque, compensate her two years worth of interest on top of this. She also
wants Santander to compensate her for the inconvenience, emotional and mental stress the
situation has caused her  as well as reimbursement of the costs of the travel tickets where
shes had to travel back to the UK to resolve the matter.
Santander responded to Mrs Os complaint to say that it had followed its correct process and
sent the savings account balance by cheque to Mrs Os Nigerian address  which is the
address it held on its systems for her  once the account had been closed in March 2020. It
explained it could see the cheque had been cashed with F in September 2020, and Mrs O
should contact F to find out more because it couldnt provide more details. So, it didnt
uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs O came to this service. The Investigator also
looked into Mrs Os complaint, but they didnt think it should be upheld. They didnt think
Santander had done anything wrong when it sent the cheque by post. They also found that
the cheque had been cashed into an account in a similar name to Mrs Os.
Mrs O didnt agree with the Investigator and maintained that shed never received the
cheque with the closing balance from the savings account. And that she didnt cash the
cheque into an account. Mrs O pointed out an inconsistency in the name of the account
where the cheque had been cashed. Because Mrs O didnt agree, the case was passed to
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the available evidence, it is my intention to uphold this complaint.
Santander has sent me a copy of a call recording from April 2020. During this call, Mrs O
expresses her concerns over the cheques being sent to her address in Nigeria. She explains
that she hadnt received the cheques, and that she might not receive them, given that it was
being posted from the UK to Nigeria in a pandemic. Mrs O added that even if she did receive
the cheques, she wouldnt be able to cash them because she doesnt have an account to
pay them into. During the call, Mrs O requests that the cheques are cancelled on many
occasions and asked that Santander hold onto her money until she is able to return to the
UK. Or that the cheque be reissued to her UK address.
The agent explains that he couldnt promise the cheques would be cancelled or that a team
would ring her back. Mrs O makes it clear that she wants her money to be safe, the cheques
cancelled, and a note made of the conversation on file.
Santander has shown me a copy of the letter it says it sent to Mrs O with the cheques
attached. This was dated 4 March 2020. By the time Mrs O spoke to Santander, it was 2
April 2020  almost one month after the cheques had been sent. I would have expected
Santander to cancel the cheques at this point  Mrs O hadnt received them after a month,
shed expressed concerns with them arriving to her, and shed specifically requested for
them to be cancelled on multiple occasions.
During the phone call, Mrs O was told that it couldnt be guaranteed that the cheques wouldbe cancelled or that someone would call her back. But I dont find this to be fair or
reasonable. Santander should have at least contacted Mrs O to let her know what was
happening with the cheque  and it doesnt appear to have done this. It isnt fair to expect
Mrs O to chase the matter, when Santander is already aware of it and should being doing
something to help.
Santanders contact notes in relation to whats happened here arent very thorough. For
example, there are no notes that reflect what happened during this call on 2 April 2020. But,
I know the call happened as Santander have provided the call recording. This makes it
difficult for me to know if Mrs O did ever contact Santander again to find out what was
happening with the cheque. But even if she didnt contact Santander again (until much later),
Santander were aware during this call that the cheque was missing, and Mrs O wanted it
cancelling  and in not doing this, Santander ought to have been able to foresee a loss to
Mrs O, which it didnt mitigate by cancelling the cheque.
The cheque was subsequently cashed in September 2020. Mrs O says she didnt cash the
cheque and says shes still never received it. Im persuaded by what shes said here. I say
this because I have been in touch with F to find out where the cheque was paid. Only the
name matches Mrs Os details  everything else like prefix, address and date of birth are
different  the account was also opened one month prior to the cheque being cashed. So, on
balance, I dont think its likely Mrs O cashed the cheque. And I think its more likely the
cheque was intercepted. If Santander had cancelled the cheque in April 2020, like it ought
reasonably to have done, then Mrs O wouldnt have lost out here. So, Santander needs to
put things right for Mrs O  and Ill come onto what it needs to do later.
It wasnt until August 2021 that Mrs O was able to return to the UK and visit a branch. Mrs O
was given the funds from the current account, but not the savings account. She was given
incorrect and misleading information a number of times in branch. Ultimately, Mrs O had to
leave the UK without the funds from the savings account. When Mrs O returned in February
2022, she was informed the cheque had been cashed in September 2020, and so it wouldnt
reimburse her. Mrs O should have been told the cheque had been cashed when she first
visited the branch in August 2021. This could have saved her various other trips to branch to
find out what was happening and only added extra distress and inconvenience to an already
worrying situation. Santander should and could have done better at providing Mrs O with
clear information, in a timelier manner and not doing so has led to additional worry.
It is my current view that Mrs O has lost out as a result of the things Santander has done
wrong and do I intend to order it to put things right for Mrs O, by doing the below:
Reimburse Mrs O the closing balance of the savings account.
Apply 8% simple annual interest from August 2021 (when Mrs O visited branch to 
collect the funds) until it repays her the money.
Pay Mrs O £500 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused to her 
because of it not cancelling the cheque in April 2020.
I have noted that Mrs O has asked for her flights back to the UK to be reimbursed. However,
Im not persuaded the sole reason for her visit was to pursue the funds, and so I wont be
asking Santander to reimburse this.
Santander responded to say that it did attempt to cancel the cheque when Mrs O requested 
this in August 2021  however the cheque had already been cashed by this point. It said it 
had made attempts to trace the funds too. It explained that it is the other banks responsibility 
to carry out the appropriate checks before allowing a cheque to be cashed  Santander 
confirmed that these checks are not its responsibility. So, it felt it would be unfair for it to pay the cheque again, as Mrs O may have already had the benefit of these funds when the 
cheque was cashed.
Mrs O also responded to the provisional decision. I have summarised her main points below:
In addition to her branch visits in August 2021 and February 2022, she made several 
calls to Santander about the matter, where she was assured, it was working to 
release the funds to her. 
She accepts that its difficult to demonstrate that the sole reason for her trips to the 
UK was to recover the missing funds, however, the phone call from April 2020 states 
her intent to return to the UK after lockdown restrictions had ended to collect her 
money. 
Aside from mental and emotional distress, shes had to invest a lot of time chasing 
Santander, including waiting on hold, visiting branches, gathering evidence and 
seeking advice. Because of this, she feels additional compensation is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my intention to uphold this complaint, for much 
of the same reasons as outlined in my provisional decision. However, I will cover off both 
parties points.
In response to Santander, I accept that it might have tried to cancel the cheque in August 
2021, but it couldnt because the cheque had already been cashed. However, my provisional 
decision explains that Santander should have cancelled the cheque in April 2020, when Mrs 
O asked for it. Had it done this, it wouldnt have been possible for the cheque to have been 
cashed in September 2020. Ive also explained why I dont think it likely Mrs O has had the 
benefit of these funds. I did explain this to Santander when it responded to my provisional 
decision  it didnt respond to this, and so Ive assumed it has nothing further to add here.
Ive no doubt that Mrs O has been distressed and inconvenienced by whats happened  I 
took these things into account when coming to an award for distress an inconvenience. I 
also took into consideration this services normal approach to a distress and inconvenience 
award (more information on this can be found on our website) and having done so, I still find 
that an award of £500 is appropriate here. This reflects that the impact of Santander not 
cancelling the cheque when asked caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mrs 
O, which took a lot of extra effort to sort out  and that the impact lasted over the course of 
many months. 
I have noted Mrs O said during the call in April 2020 that she would travel back to the UK to 
collect her funds once lockdown restrictions had ended. However, this was Mrs Os preferred 
option to take. Santander followed its process by initially sending the cheque by post. And 
Mrs O said that she would collect the money when she next returned to the UK. So, I cant 
fairly ask Santander to reimburse Mrs O the cost of her flights, given that it was her choice 
not to have the cheque reissued and sent to her Nigerian address again. 
I note Mrs O made a second trip back to the UK, however, I dont think I can conclude from 
this that the sole reason for the trip was to recover the funds  although I do accept that this 
would have been an important part of her trip. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade 
me that Mrs O wouldnt have made the trip anyway. And so, I wont be asking Santander to 
reimburse Mrs O the costs of her flights. Putting things right
To put things right, I order Santander to:
Reimburse Mrs O the closing balance of the Everyday Saver account.
Pay Mrs O 8% simple annual interest* on the balance of the Everyday Saver account 
from August 2021 (when Mrs O visited branch to collect the funds) until it repays her 
the money.
Pay Mrs O £500 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused to her 
because of it not cancelling the cheque in April 2020.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. Santander must give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Os complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman