DRN-4415192
The complaint
Miss B and X are unhappy with how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled their travel 
insurance claim. 
Any reference to IPA includes all its agents. 
Miss B is the lead complainant on this complaint. So, I will refer to Miss B for the most part 
but the policy is in the joint names of Miss B and X.
What happened
Miss B and X took out a worldwide travel policy and IPA is the underwriter. 
Miss B and X have the policy because they are travelling around the world. While travelling 
in one of the countries, in January 2023, Miss B was experiencing pain in her knee and the 
treating hospital advised her to have surgery. Miss B contacted IPA on 5 January 2023 to 
request authorisation for the surgery which was scheduled to be on 8 January 2023. 
However, there was some confusion on what cover was available under their policy and 
what information was required to validate the claim. Delays were caused as a result, so the 
surgery didnt take place until 28 January 2023. 
Miss B made a complaint to IPA about how her claim was handled. IPA agreed that the 
service it provided wasnt the standard expected and it apologised. It said when Miss B 
called, contact should have been made immediately with its overseas assistance team. IPA 
offered Miss B £250 in recognition of its failings. It also said training will be provided to its 
staff to learn from this and to improve the service. 
Unhappy with IPAs response, Miss B referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt uphold it. She said she was satisfied that IPA acknowledged its error 
and compensated Miss B and X. She thought the £250 compensation offered by IPA was 
fair and reasonable and she didnt think IPA needed to do anything further.
Miss B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me. 
In summary, they say:
IPA didnt take their complaint seriously and they are concerned for others with this 
type of policy.
IPAs advisors didnt know about their policy, the policy wording or the exclusions. It 
asked for information which wasnt required and when they had sent this in, it said 
the information hadnt been received. 
For the most part, they had to call to receive updates and IPA only called back once. 
Its communication was poor.
Their claim only got accepted when they made a formal complaint. 
The situation caused them a lot of distress and inconvenience and put them under a 
lot of mental strain.
Miss Bs surgery was delayed by over a month which caused unnecessary pain and 
possible lasting problems to her health. 
The point of an ombudsman is to hold companies like this accountable for their 
actions or inactions and by us implying IPA did its best gives it permission to carry on 
doing this to other policy holders. They are not convinced that IPA has learnt from the 
mishandling of their claim, and they are not confident that the exact same thing 
wouldnt happen to someone else in the future with the same policy. IPAs suggestion 
providing training to its staff is inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Its not in dispute that IPA could have provided better service overall. It has accepted this 
and offered £250 compensation for its errors. The claim that Miss B submitted has also been 
settled. So, the key issue I need to consider is whether IPA has treated Miss B and X fairly 
and reasonably when the issue was raised as a complaint. 
Having done so, I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to confirm that the role of this service is not to punish or tell a business what to 
do. We also cannot ask a business to change its processes. This is the role of the regulator 
 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, while I understand that Miss B feels strongly 
about what happened and how she was treated, our role is to look at the individual merits of 
the complaint based on the available evidence. 
Ive looked at what happened, and I agree that IPA could have provided better customer 
service. There was confusion caused as a result of not understanding the requirements of 
the policy and what cover it was able to provide to Miss B. Overall, IPAs communication was 
poor, and delays were caused unnecessarily. 
Im not persuaded that IPA didnt take Miss Bs complaint seriously. It provided a response to 
Miss B and X and accepted and apologised for its failings. It said that training will be 
provided to its staff. While Miss B thinks this is inadequate, Im not persuaded this is the 
case. I understand the complaint Miss B made wasnt about compensation but as Ive said 
above, I can only look at what happened and the individual merits of their case. 
I dont doubt that the situation was challenging for Miss B and X and they were put under a 
lot of strain; this cant have been easy. 
But having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied with how IPA has dealt with Miss B and Xs complaint and how it has put things right. While this may not be to their satisfaction 
and they want IPA to do more, its not my role to ask IPA to do this. 
Overall, therefore I think Miss B and X have been treated fairly and reasonably and I think 
the £250 compensation IPA offered is also fair and reasonable for what happened. It follows 
that I dont require IPA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss B and Xs complaint about Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman