DRN-1489256
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt uphold her claim made under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit act 1974 (s. 75) about a missed flight she paid for using her 
Barclays credit card.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs B made a s. 75 claim. Under s. 75, assuming certain conditions are met, Mrs B 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. In this case, Mrs B 
is the borrower, Barclays the credit provider and the airline the service provider. So, 
for me to say that Barclays should have upheld this claim I need to be satisfied that 
the airline breached the contract or there was a misrepresentation.
Mrs B has explained that she had 75 minutes to make her connecting flight and that 
due to the time taken to get through immigration this wasnt enough. Mrs B has also 
provided further information about delays in security and the need to allow extra time. 
I note Mrs Bs comments and understand how upsetting this issue must have been. 
But as information was available at the time of booking about the time for the 
connection, Mrs B made an informed decision about how long she wanted to allow 
for this.
Mrs B said that the flights were booked as a package and that this package shouldnt 
have been offered because the connection time it wasnt long enough. I understand 
the point Mrs B is making but it was her choice to choose the flights she did. The 
airline has provided a copy of its guidelines and these set out that the minimum 
connecting time between its European flights and USA flights was 75 minutes. As 
this was the amount of time that was allowed for Mrs Bs flights, I do not find that a 
breach of contract occurred.
I also do not find that I can say the ticket was misrepresented to Mrs B. The tickets 
would have shown the flight times and so Mrs B was aware of the connection times 
and I have nothing to suggest this was misrepresented to her. 
Mrs B was provided with an alternative flight the following day at no extra cost. I have 
looked at the terms and conditions provided regarding the flight and it states in the 
section about cancellation, delays and denied boarding that if the airline causes a 
customer to miss a connecting flight then at the customers option it will provide an 
alternative flight at the earliest opportunity. In this case the delays appeared to be 
linked to the operations at the airport rather than the airline, but Mrs B did miss a 
connecting flight and as she was then provided with an alternative flight at no cost, I 
do not find I can say the contract was breached.
I understand the upset caused to Mrs B as she needed to travel on a certain day, and 
I note that Barclays paid £100 as a gesture of goodwill. I can see why Mrs B wants 
compensation for the trouble and upset she was caused. But as this is a claim under 
s. 75, I can only say it should be upheld if there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation and in this case, I do not find I can say this happened.  
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman