DRN-3444150
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Nat West mis-sold him PPI on a number of loans.
What happened
Nat West has already upheld Mr Cs complaints about PPI on a credit card taken out in 1985 
and loans taken out in 2000, 2002, 2003 and 2006. 
Nat West has paid redress in relation to the 2000 and 2002 loans. In relation to the PPI on 
the credit card and the 2003 and 2006 loans, Mr C had made claims on the policies that paid 
out more than he had paid in premiums. Therefore, no refund was due.
Mr C does not dispute the above and therefore I will not be considering them further.
This complaint is specifically about PPI associated with loans that Mr C says he took out in 
the late 1980s and early 1990s. Mr C is dissatisfied that Nat West has been unable to trace 
loans and associated PPI from that era.
In May 2021 our adjudicator wrote to Mr C with her view that, because there didnt appear to 
be any other accounts in Mr Cs name, Nat West didnt need to make any further refunds. Mr 
C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and therefore the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Nat West has been unable to find any record of earlier loans, or PPI, taken out by Mr C. Mr 
C believes that Nat West has a duty to keep full records of any borrowing and that it has 
deliberately put obstacles in the way of trying to resolve this complaint. He thinks that this 
should particularly be the case because he and his wife didnt move their borrowing around 
and therefore had a long-established history with Nat West. He says an adjudicator at this 
Service explained that it was Nat Wests job to find records of Mr Cs accounts.
Ive had a long phone call with Mr C and so understand his strength of feeling about Nat 
West not being able to find information about all of his borrowing.
Im sorry if someone at this Service has previously stated that Nat West has a responsibility 
to retain all records, as that is not the case. As I explained to Mr C in a previous complaint 
he made about a different business, banks are not expected to keep records indefinitely. It is 
therefore not unusual or surprising that Nat West has no record of loans from the 1980s and 
early 1990s, especially as those loans ended some time ago. Where the lending carried on, 
we would expect Nat West to have some records. So, for example, Nat West did find a 
record of the credit card account that was taken out in 1985 but thats because the card 
account was still active in 2015 when Nat West was originally looking at Mr Cs complaint. 
By Mr Cs estimation, the loans he had ended around 1992.
Mr C also doesnt have any direct evidence, in the form of loan agreements or statements 
(although his own records do mention some statement numbers), of borrowing during this 
period. Having spoken to him, I understand his reasons for no longer having all the 
paperwork. However, he has provided a copy of a personal log of financial outgoings that he 
kept for his own records. These show regular payments for what Mr C believes to have been 
two or possibly three loans beginning in 1986, including a loan for a car, that did not continue 
beyond 1992. Overall, based on the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that 
Mr C did take out loans with Nat West during this period.
However, I now need to decide if there is enough evidence of there being PPI in association 
with those loans. Mr C has provided his recollection of events and shared information about 
his personal circumstances at the time, in support of his view that he would have bought PPI 
with these earlier loans. He has said the fact that he had PPI on later loans and on the credit 
card is indicative that he would have bought it with all of his loans.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr C has said. I know this will be very disappointing 
for him, but, overall, Ive decided that there is insufficient evidence for me to be able to 
conclude that Mr C took out PPI on these earlier loans. Therefore, I am unable to uphold Mr 
Cs complaint that he was mis-sold PPI.
Part of Mr Cs complaint is that he was bullied by Nat West staff when he was to trying to 
establish that he did have loans between 1986  1991. He says that, after initially being quite 
helpful, the attitude changed and they werent interested in looking at his personal financial 
log as proof of his loans. Ive spoken with Mr C about his recollections of this and what hes 
said about how Nat West would have known that he was a vulnerable person and that it was 
during a difficult time when his wife had suffered a bereavement in her family. Ive also 
discussed at length with him some other dealing hes had with Nat West, unconnected to his 
loans and PPI, but that illustrates the difficult relationship that he has sometimes had with it 
and where he has again felt bullied.
Im aware that Nat West responded to Mr Cs complaint in July 2016. It said that all the 
evidence that Mr C had sent had been considered. It said it was not disputing that Mr C had 
the loans but was unable to identify if they had PPI attached to them. In regard to Mr Cs 
complaint about how a particular member of staff spoke to him, it offered him £200 
compensation by way of an apology for his experience. I understand that Mr C had 
requested a larger amount. However, on balance, I consider that Nat Wests offer was a 
reasonable and proportionate response to his complaint. Therefore, I do not require Nat 
West to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman