DRN-3335673
The complaint
Ms Y complains delays by Santander UK Plc in dealing with her mortgage application meant 
she had to pay more rent than she would otherwise have had to pay in relation to her shared 
ownership property.
What happened
Ms Y took out a capital repayment mortgage with Santander UK Plc in 2015 to help her 
buy a property under a shared ownership scheme. In January 2020 Ms Y approached 
Santander about making a staircasing application - she wanted to borrow more from 
Santander to buy a bigger share in the property. She had an appointment in branch on 16 
January 2020 to discuss this.
On around 24 February 2020 Santanders mortgage adviser told Ms Y the maximum loan 
to value ratio (LTV) Santander would agree to was 75%. Ms Y looked at borrowing from 
other lenders as this wasnt enough for her. On around 25 March 2020 Santander said 
theyd made a mistake and were willing to lend up to 90% LTV. So, she made an 
application to Santander the same day.
By then, it wasnt possible for a survey of Ms Ys property to take place due to the 
coronavirus pandemic so the application couldnt progress. Ms Y said Santander 
overlooked appointing a surveyor once inspections became possible again in May and 
only instructed a surveyor after shed reminded them in June. Santander issued a 
mortgage offer in early July 2020 and Ms Y completed the mortgage in mid-August 2020.
Ms Y was unhappy with the delays. She thought if Santander had dealt with her 
application in February, she could have completed by April. And if shed done that, she 
would have avoided paying several months rent on her property.
Santander upheld Ms Ys complaint. They apologised and paid her £400 on a goodwill 
basis. Ms Y didnt feel this was enough to put things right. She thought Santander should 
compensate her too for the extra rent shed paid until she completed the mortgage in 
August.
Our investigator agreed Santander should pay Ms Y the additional rent. He thought if 
Santander hadnt made a mistake about what they could lend, the mortgage application 
would have gone ahead in February 2020, the mortgage would have completed by May, and 
Ms Y would have avoided paying rent between May and August 2020. He said Ms Y should 
get the additional rent shed had to pay between May and August 2020 inclusive, a total of
£1,174.80, plus simple interest at 8%.
Santander said there was an issue about affordability when Ms Y first made her application, 
which delayed things; the housing authority needed to approve the staircasing before it 
could go ahead; they werent solely responsible for any delays; and since Ms Y would have 
had to make higher mortgage payments sooner if the application had gone through earlier, 
she hadnt suffered any financial loss. Since Santander didnt accept our investigators view, 
I reviewed everything afresh and recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which 
follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to a different outcome than our investigator. So, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give the parties a chance to make further comments before I issue a final 
decision.
I appreciate it will have been frustrating for Ms Y that her staircasing application took so 
long when she felt her initial purchase had proceeded smoothly. In looking at her 
complaint, I need to consider whether Santander made a mistake, whether it led to any loss 
and, if so, how Ms Y can be put into the position she would have been in if things had gone 
as they should.
Ms Y first asked Santander about borrowing more in mid-January 2020. On around           
24 February 2020 Santander confirmed they could only lend up to 75% LTV. Santander 
acknowledge that information was wrong, and they later said they could lend up to 90% 
LTV. Ms Y says she looked at alternative lenders in the meantime and I can understand 
that caused her some inconvenience.
Santander have said affordability was an issue in February. I can see they told Ms Y 
then they had to check that, but theres no evidence to suggest it was going to prevent 
the application succeeding. Since the application did go through later, I think its unlikely 
the application would have failed for affordability reasons in February.
The parties agree Ms Ys application couldnt proceed without confirmation from the 
housing association they agreed to it. Santander say they didnt have that confirmation until 
the end of March after the housing association had received, and discussed with Ms Y, a 
valuation of the property. The valuation was instructed in mid-March. So, even though 
Santander said they couldnt lend as much as she needed, it didnt stop Ms Y getting on 
with her application to the housing association.
I can see Santander had a copy of a letter from the housing association that confirmed the 
value of the share Ms Y was planning to buy towards the end of March. That may have 
been enough confirmation for them for the mortgage application to progress. But Ms Ys 
provided email exchanges with the housing association that suggest she was still seeking 
their approval in late June.
Bearing the above in mind, I dont think the delay caused by Santanders mistake about 
the LTV limit in February had a significant impact on the overall timescales.
It wouldnt have been possible for Santander to arrange a valuation of the property until May
after the pandemic restrictions were lifted. Ms Y says she had to remind them to arrange 
the valuation and it didnt take place until June. It seems there was a delay on Santanders 
part there. But I dont think it was unreasonable that things were taking longer than usual. 
The pandemic had a widespread impact on businesses who had to reorganise their 
working arrangements, and its not unreasonable if this had a knock-on effect on the 
service they could provide.
Santander issued an offer for the additional loan on 22 June 2020, which I think was 
reasonable given the valuation took place that month. It looks as if Ms Y didnt instruct solicitors until around 2 July. Its possible Ms Y could have instructed them slightly sooner 
as Santander have suggested. Her email exchange with the housing association Ive 
mentioned suggests the delay was because she was waiting for their approval.
Santander think the solicitors delayed. But they say they didnt have the mortgage offer 
until 10 July and completion happened in mid-August, which is sooner than the timescales 
the solicitors were working to at the time because of the pandemic. Whether or not other 
parties caused delay, I cant reasonably say Santander caused a delay in June and July.
In summary, whilst Santander gave Ms Y incorrect information in February, I dont think 
Santander were responsible for an unreasonable delay that had a significant impact on 
the progress of Ms Ys additional loan application. Even if they had been, Im not 
persuaded Ms Y suffered a financial loss as a result.
I acknowledge Ms Ys rent would have reduced sooner if her mortgage application had 
completed earlier. But her mortgage would have gone up at the same time. And the 
amount she now pays in mortgage payments and rent each month is higher than she was 
paying before, so shes not out of pocket. I also accept Ms Y would have been able to 
contribute more towards her mortgage and start reducing the balance. But a borrower 
pays more towards interest at the beginning of a capital repayment mortgage like hers 
than they do towards the capital. I think any reduction Ms Y managed to make to the 
capital in the few months leading up to completion would have been minimal. Ms Y might 
say she lost out on benefiting from an increase in value of the additional share of the 
property she was acquiring. But theres no evidence of that and I think any loss on that 
basis would be too speculative, even if Santander had been responsible for any 
unreasonable delay.
Bearing everything in mind, I think the £400 Santander paid Ms Y was fair and reasonable 
to put things right. Even if Santander had caused a delay, I still think that amount would 
have been enough to compensate Ms Y. It fairly reflects the inconvenience she was put to 
in looking at alternative lenders when Santander made a mistake about the LTV they would 
accept as well as any distress and inconvenience she suffered because of the time the 
process took. I dont think shes suffered any direct financial loss. So, whilst I understand 
she will be disappointed, I dont intend to uphold Ms Ys complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Ms Ys complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any comments on my provisional decision that lead me to change 
my mind about the outcome of Ms Ys complaint. So, for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman