DRN-1250317
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains that the vehicle she acquired from First Response Finance Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
What happened
Mrs G tells us she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill call GV in March 2018. She says 
shes had numerous issues with the vehicle since then. And its been in for repairs on 
several occasions. She doesnt feel that the vehicle was fit for purpose and wants to reject it.
FRF said that Mrs G had contacted it in October 2018 regarding an intercooler pipe fault. It 
said Mrs G had opted to pay for this by means of the Car Repair Assistance Scheme 
(CRAS). In June 2019, following further complaints, it said it had arranged for the vehicle to 
be independently inspected by a company Ill refer to as S. It said S had diagnosed that the 
vehicle was displaying several fault codes, probably due to a partially blocked Diesel 
Particulate Filter (DPF). But this was considered a general maintenance issue and not a fault 
present at the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He noted that Mrs G had 
opted to accept assistance when the vehicle required a repair in October 2018. And when it 
failed its MOT in November 2018 he noted that this was due to worn brake pads. He said 
this would be considered to be  a wear and tear issue. He said that S had carried out an 
inspection and hadnt identified any faults as being present at the point of supply.  And hed 
seen nothing to contradict this finding.
Mrs G didnt accept this and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs G has experienced some problems with this vehicle. And I understand its 
disappointing when things go wrong. 
Mrs Gs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. FRF supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account. Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to 
contract goods must be of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.Where information is unclear, contradictory or facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ill deal first with a discrepancy about the mileage of the vehicle. The finance agreement 
refers to the vehicle having covered 31,741 miles when supplied to Mrs G. But this is almost 
certainly wrong as the vehicle passed an MOT test in December 2017. The odometer 
reading was recorded as 44,447 miles. Our investigator did check with industry guides and 
confirmed the price paid by Mrs G was consistent with the vehicle having covered the higher 
mileage. So on a balance of probabilities it seems the entry on the agreement was likely the 
result of an administrative or inputting error. And the mileage a vehicle had travelled would 
be visible to even a brief inspection. Theres no information to show this has had any impact 
on the current situation.
In October 2018 the vehicle is reported to have suffered a couple of breakdowns. On the first 
occasion a turbo pipe had become disconnected and a temporary repair was performed. 
Two weeks later the same fault reoccurred and the vehicle needed to be recovered. Ive 
seen an invoice which indicates a turbo hose was replaced. The odometer reading recorded 
is 51,383 miles.
The following month the vehicle initially failed an MOT due to issues with the brake pads.
As a result of Mrs G making further complaints about the vehicle - including the gearbox 
slipping and the vehicle overheating - FRF arranged for it to be independently inspected by a 
company Ill refer to as S. The inspection was carried out on 25 June 2019. The odometer 
is recorded as 56,344 miles.
S reported that it took the vehicle on a three mile road test. And it was found that the vehicle 
juddered when pulling away and that there was a hesitation/judder when changing gears. 
The inspection found no oil leak on the gearbox and a diagnostic test revealed no fault 
codes. No overheating was discovered but a misfire was identified when the vehicle was 
under fast idle. The engineer concluded the most probable cause of the juddering and erratic 
idling (misfire) was a partially blocked DPF. S states that the DPF filter requires cleaning and 
regeneration from time to time and that is considered a maintenance issue and not a 
manufacturing fault. It concluded the vehicle was fit for purpose at the time of supply.
The vehicle was over six years old when acquired by Mrs G. So its to be expected that wear 
and tear issues will start to arise. A turbo hose becoming disconnected is consistent with the 
vehicle having been used over several years. And as Mrs G had probably covered around 
6,000 miles its highly improbable that this fault was present at the point of supply.
Whilst a DPF will require cleaning and general maintenance its also a component that is 
more sensitive than many to the manner in which the vehicle is used. For example, its more 
likely to become blocked if a vehicle is primarily used for short journeys in urban areas 
where driving is often stop-start.  And usually its recommended that the vehicle is regularly 
taken for a longer run at higher speeds to regenerate (clear). But in the absence of any 
information to suggest an inherent manufacturing fault a DPF blockage is a maintenance 
issue
Based on the available information theres nothing to show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied to Mrs G. The initial MOT failure in November 2018 was due to worn 
brake pads - again a wear and tear issue. And after these were replaced the vehicle passed 
without advisories. And I note that despite a further report of a fuel injector problem the 
vehicle passed its latest annual MOT test on 20 November 2019. By then the odometer 
reading was recorded at 60,885 miles.Since acquiring the vehicle in March 2018 - and taking the higher of the odometer readings - 
the vehicles covered around 16,000 miles. This is well up to the average wed expect. And it 
does indicate the vehicle has proved durable and fit for purpose.
In summary, I think its more likely than not that the faults which this vehicle has experienced 
since supply to Mrs G are routine wear and tear issues to be expected with older, used 
vehicles. On a balance of probabilities I believe the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman