DRN-3845246
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way in which Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) has 
handled his theft claim under his home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt Tesco includes its representatives, loss adjusters and claims 
agents in this decision letter.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr H contacted Tesco under his home insurance policy to inform it of items 
which were missing following a break in. Tesco appointed an agent to investigate as the 
claim was for a sum which exceeded £24,000. A claims agent was also appointed to 
manage the claim. Mr H complained that hed signed a form allowing Tesco to request a 
police report, but this wasnt followed up by Tesco promptly. Tesco said that this was out of 
its control, that it had chased the report and when received, there was no password to 
access it. Mr H thought that Tesco had taken too long, whilst Tesco considered that it had 
actioned the claims process in a timely manner.
Mr H remained unhappy with Tescos claims handling and what he considered to be poor 
service and lack of communication, so he made a complaint to this service. He wished to 
receive an apology from Tesco, wanted his excess fee to be waived, and also wanted to 
receive compensation for what he considered to be his poor claims experience. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. He thought that delay in processing the claim 
could have been avoided by Tesco through better attention to detail. He also thought that 
Tesco should have communicated with Mr H about his claim so that he didnt need to chase 
for updates. As to obtaining the police report, our investigator was satisfied that Tesco hadnt 
been responsible for unreasonable delays in this respect. 
As to compensation, our investigator believed that Mr H should be compensated for the 
inconvenience caused. He noted the services published guidance on compensation and 
said that £100 was a figure the service would consider reasonable for repeated small errors 
requiring reasonable effort to sort out. Tesco didnt agree that it should pay compensation.
Mr H remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine here is whether Tesco treated Mr H in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner in processing Mr Hs claim under his home insurance policy. Ive 
concluded that it didnt do so in all respects, and Ill explain why.
Ive considered all the available evidence as well as the submissions of both parties and I 
turn firstly to what Mr H has said. At the start of the claim, he said he was referred to another 
company for the electrical items and to Tesco for the rest of the claim. The total claim was 
for just over £24,000 and he said that his contents insurance was for up to £75,000. Mr H 
said that the cause of the first delay was that Tesco pulled the other company from the 
electrical claim. It then arranged a company to conduct a home visit and, at that time, the 
representative said that it had accepted the claim. Tesco appointed a loss adjuster and 
wanted another face to face appointment and then said it would need to apply for a police 
report. Mr H said that after several weeks of not hearing anything back, he contacted Tesco 
who advised that the police report had been requested. A couple of weeks later, he called 
back, only to be told that the police report had in fact only just been requested. 
Mr H complained about a lack of communication by Tesco once the police report had been 
received. He said he didnt receive promised telephone calls and that nearly three weeks 
after being told Tesco had the report, then said it hadnt received a password. Mr H said: - 
Another delay, another lie. He also stated that he called Tesco at the end of August 2022. 
After being on hold, he finally spoke to someone who said that he hadnt reached the right 
team and was then on hold for another 30 minutes. Finally, someone picked up and put him 
on hold to check with the loss adjusters. Mr H discovered that Tesco had contacted his old 
insurance company about a fire claim hed made a few years previously. Mr H couldnt 
understand why Tesco waited until after the police report to ask for this information. In 
summary, Mr H thought that Tesco was giving misinformation and was delaying the claim. 
He said Tesco didnt have his correct address although hed told it twice to correct the error.
Finally, Mr H said that hed had to pay out of his own pocket to replace some of the electrical 
items as they were needed either for working from home and my needed leisure time. He 
said that the stress and strain in dealing with the matter had caused a number of anxiety 
attacks and said; - I have been made to feel like I am the person at fault rather than the 
victim of a crime. I have never had a call in regard to my case and how it is progressing, I 
have had to scratch and claw for any snippet of informationTaken up my own time to call 
on a number of times and spend hours on hold.
Tesco stated in its final response letter that the company it had appointed to validate the 
claim suggested appointment of loss adjusters. The loss adjusters duly attended the 
property and advised that due to the extent and nature of the claim, they believed it would be 
useful to apply for the police report. It confirmed that it had also approached Mr Hs previous 
insurer who dealt with a fire claim and requested a copy of the file and details of items which 
were claimed for. It said that this would assist in the validation of the claim.
Tesco also said that it instructed an agent to take a statement and investigate further, once it 
became clear that the list of all missing items totalled approximately £24,000. Also, the loss 
adjusters were instructed to manage the claim due to its value. Tesco noted that Mr H was 
unhappy that it had instructed three different bodies to deal with the claim. However, it said 
that as information unfolded, this was the correct process and the policy wording stated that 
it could appoint others to validate a claim. It said that the police report took a while to be 
issued and then there was further delay in obtaining the password. As to the address Tesco 
was using, it said the details were provided by Mr H when he took out the policy online. As to 
delay, Tesco said that investigations had been on-going. It said that Mr H had called for 
updates even though hed been informed by Tesco shortly before, that it was awaiting 
information from his previous insurer.
I now turn to each of the complaint points. Firstly, I note that Tesco initially instructed a 
specialist electrical firm and then changed its mind and considered all items together. Whilst 
I appreciate that this may have caused some initial confusion and delay, I cant say that this 
was an unreasonable approach. It became clear that the claim was for a very substantial amount and in the circumstances, it was not unreasonable for the insurer to decide to take a 
careful and co-ordinated approach.
I now turn to Mr Hs point that following a home visit, the representative had said that it had 
accepted the claim. Whilst its unfortunate if this is the case, again due to the size and 
circumstances of the claim, I dont consider it would have been unreasonable for Tesco to 
then have appointed a loss adjuster, to conduct a further face to face appointment and to 
apply for a police report. Its recognised that insurance companies must necessarily take 
measures and conduct further enquiries in many cases to ensure that claims are legitimate 
and to counter fraud.
Following the loss adjusters visit, Mr H was told that Tesco would request a police report 
and Mr H said he didnt hear back for several weeks. Unfortunately, such processes can 
take time and I dont consider that the timescale was within Tescos control. I note that Mr H 
had to chase Tesco and he was advised that the police report had been requested. Whilst it 
would be best practice to keep the policyholder updated throughout the process, I dont 
consider that this was a significant service failure, as there was no information to share until 
the report had been received.
Mr H also thought that Tesco had provided misleading information. He said that a couple of 
weeks later, he called back, only to be told that the police report had only just been 
requested. Tesco had therefore miscommunicated the position to Mr H at some point as to 
the timing of the request for the police report. In this respect I agree with Mr H that the 
response hadnt been entirely fair and reasonable. I agree with our investigator however that 
this would be classed as a small error which would require only reasonable effort to resolve.
Mr H then complained about a lack of communication by Tesco once the police report had 
been received, that he didnt receive promised telephone calls, was kept on hold and that 
nearly three weeks after being told it had the report, it only then said it didnt have a 
password. I agree that Tesco could have communicated the position to Mr H more clearly. 
Again however, I consider these to be relatively limited service failures.
Ive noted that Mr H couldnt understand why Tesco waited until after the police report to ask 
for information about a previous significant claim. Tesco has said that, due to it having an 
incorrect address for Mr H on its system, it wasnt identified that Mr H had a previous fire 
claim with a different insurer. Im persuaded that Tesco wasnt originally aware of this 
previous claim and pursued the matter when it was made aware of it within an adequate 
timescale. I cant say that Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably in terms of the timing of its 
request for this information.
Mr H has complained that Tesco didnt have his correct address even though hed told it 
twice to correct the error. Whilst I accept that Mr may have tried to correct the error, Im 
persuaded that Tesco had used the information which Mr H had made available in his online 
application for an insurance policy and its likely that this error was the reason for any 
subsequent confusion and his having to scratch and claw for information. Sadly, its 
inevitable that thorough investigations need to be carried out when a criminal offence has 
occurred, such as this break-in. This is particularly the case where more than one claim has 
been made in recent years, involving significant sums.
In conclusion, I dont consider that Tesco has generally acted in an unfair or unreasonable 
manner in relation to Mr Hs claim. Whether or not it does ultimately settle Mr Hs claim, I do 
however agree with our investigator that there have been limited communication failures. Im 
satisfied that Tesco has already apologised for certain service failures, albeit the relevant 
letter of apology may not have been received due to the confusion referenced above. In this limited respect, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and consider that it would have been fair 
and reasonable for Tesco to have communicated its concerns to Mr H more clearly. I dont 
however consider that it would be appropriate for Tesco to be required to waive any excess 
fee if it does decide to settle Mr Hs claim, in view of the limited nature of this uphold 
decision. In the circumstances, I consider that modest compensation of £100 should be paid 
to Mr H for inconvenience caused by the limited service failures in this case. The claim 
should now be progressed to final settlement or declinature in accordance with the policy 
terms and conditions. Im satisfied that this represents a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr 
Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Tesco Underwriting Limited 
in relation to the limited service failures identified in this decision letter and I require Tesco to 
pay compensation to Mr H in the sum of £100 only.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 January 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman