DRN-3182898
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs C have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs C took out the PPI in 1991. Although it was a joint mortgage the PPI was set 
up just to cover Mr G.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G and Mrs C disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr G and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr G and Mrs C say they didnt know that PPI had been added to the mortgage account. Mr 
G and Mrs C originally took out their mortgage in 1986. They also took out additional 
borrowing in 1990. Mr G and Mrs C say they recall the adviser setting up the mortgage and 
that they went through a lot of information but never explained about PPI. However, we know 
that Mr G and Mrs C didnt take out PPI when first arranging the mortgage or the further 
borrowing. It wasnt until July 1991 that they were sold the policy.
Mr G and Mrs C say they were sold the PPI during a meeting, although it seems clear now 
that they were probably thinking about the meetings they had to arrange the mortgage. 
Given the sale was so long ago, its not surprising if their memory of events has faded.
Nationwide no longer holds any documents relating to the sale, which is also not surprising 
given how long ago it was and that the mortgage account has been closed for a 
considerable time.
Although we dont have the actual paperwork from the sale, weve seen the sorts of 
application forms that were in use at the time, where someone had to sign to agree to having 
PPI. Also, from what we know of Nationwides sales processes, the PPI would normally have 
been presented as optional. And I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that 
something different happened in this case.
On balance, I think that Mr G and Mrs C would have known that they had a choice about 
buying PPI. It seems to me that they probably decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt 
have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Nationwide needed to provide Mr G and Mrs C with enough information about the policy for 
them to make an informed choice about whether or not it was right for them.
I think Mr G and Mrs C must have known something about the policy  that it would cover 
their mortgage repayments if Mr G was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing 
anything at all about it.
Mr G cant remember if his employer would have paid him any sick pay at the time. 
Regardless of that, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially 
for longer than Mr G would have received full pay for. And Mr G didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions that might have been excluded under the policy. So I think Mr G and Mrs 
C could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of those 
things.
As I consider that Mr G and Mrs C had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are 
no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr G and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman