DRN-2479272
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to help when he lost money as 
the result of a cryptocurrency trading scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only provide a 
very brief overview here. In 2017 and 2018 Mr J made a series of payments on his Barclays 
debit card totalling around £2,900. At the time he believed he was funding a trading account 
to invest in cryptocurrency. Mr J later discovered this was in fact a scam.
Mr J says that in June 2019 he went into a branch and reported that hed been the victim of 
a scam. He says he was told that a chargeback would be raised. When he hadnt heard 
more by early 2020 Mr J got back in touch with Barclays. He was then told it was too late to 
raise a chargeback. 
Barclays responded and acknowledged that their service could have been better. So, they 
offered £300 compensation for the impact of this. But they declined to reimburse Mr Js loss. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. Mr J disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome for the following reasons:
Barclays can only make a chargeback under the scheme operators (VISA) rules. Im 
satisfied that in this case when Mr J first contacted Barclays (June 2019), the 
relevant deadline to raise a chargeback dispute had already passed. This is the case 
for all the payments. As such, I dont think Barclays decision not to pursue a 
chargeback was unreasonable. 
I consider the £300 compensation payment Barclays made to be fair for the impact of 
any poor service in their handling of matters. The poor service didnt impact the 
ability to raise a chargeback.
There arent any other reasons why I think Barclays reasonably could have done 
anything more to prevent Mr Js loss.
Im sorry to hear Mr J lost his money. But I dont think Barclays are responsible for failings 
that either caused the loss or prevented its recovery. So, I cant fairly tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman