DRN-2846795
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to accurately report a settled account on his 
credit file. 
Mr M is also unhappy that Lloyds sent a letter to the wrong address.
Mr Ms complaint concerns a joint loan account. But as his complaint is solely concerning the 
impact to his credit file and Lloyds actions in dealing with him, Ill refer to him directly in my 
decision.
What happened
Mr M defaulted on a Lloyds loan in 2015 which was sold on to a third-party debt 
collection agency (C) in 2017. Mr M repaid the loan balance via C in 2019. Lloyds 
continued to report the loan (with one credit reference agency) as defaulted with an 
outstanding balance as opposed to being settled. 
Mr M wasnt happy about this and complained to Lloyds. He said that the error had 
caused him to be declined for a mortgage application and meant he was offered a 
higher annual percentage rate of interest on car finance.
Lloyds looked into the matter, wrote to Mr M, and said it was updating Mr Ms credit 
file. It said that a default is shown on a credit file for six years, and as Mr Ms loan 
record was nearly six years old it would arrange to have this record removed. Lloyds 
offered Mr M £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience this error has 
caused.
Lloyds then provided a further response to Mr M which apologised for sending the 
previous letter to the wrong address. It paid Mr M a further £75 compensation for this 
error.
Mr M didnt agree with Lloyds response and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they found Lloyds overall offer of compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
They found that Mr Ms mortgage application had been declined due to not passing 
the necessary credit scoring, so it couldnt be shown that this record was the sole 
reason for the application being declined. 
Mr M doesnt agree. He says his other defaults were shown as paid and cleared in 
full, whereas this entry showed as unpaid following the debt being cleared. He says 
that as it isnt possible to determine the impact this has had he should be entitled to 
more compensation.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The credit file record in question was being recorded correctly by another credit 
reference agency. And regardless of whether a default is settled or outstanding, it will 
continue to be reported for six years even if the balance is cleared within this period. 
However, I understand that Mr M would be concerned if a default on his credit file 
was showing as outstanding when it should have been settled  in essence leaving it 
on his credit record longer than was fair.
The key issue here is that Mr M feels this incorrect record led him to being turned 
down from further borrowing, or only being able to borrow at a higher rate. But for me 
to uphold this complaint, Id need to see evidence that this incorrect record was the 
main reason for this.
Mr M has provided a copy of his mortgage application, and I can see it says the 
reason for the decline is that The application has not passed the credit score. This 
isnt therefore specific to one incorrect record. Mr M has made our service aware 
there were other settled defaults on his credit file. As such I cannot fairly conclude 
that Lloyds error was the sole reason for this application being declined.
Mr M hasnt provided a copy of his credit file for me to consider. So without this 
evidence it is difficult for me to conclude the level of impact this one record has had 
against his overall circumstances. Ive also not seen any other evidence which would 
lead me to consider any additional impact to Mr M here. As such I find Lloyds actions 
in updating his credit file and offer of £100 compensation fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that Lloyds error in sending the initial final response letter to the wrong 
address would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr M. But I can see that once 
Lloyds was made aware of this it quickly corrected the mistake and sent an apology 
letter the following day. Having considered Lloyds response I find its further offer of 
an additional £75 compensation fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman