DRN-1894953
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that he has been repeatedly logged out of his TSB Bank plc mobile banking 
application.
What happened
Mr W says he keeps getting logged out of his mobile banking application (app) and TSB has 
given him incorrect information about the reasons for it. He says he tried to complain about 
it, but TSB didn't record a complaint for him. He says TSB has paid him £50 compensation 
for this but would like a solution to the problem.
TSB accepts it ought to have raised a complaint and has apologised for that part of Mr W's 
complaint and paid him £50 compensation. It says it is not aware of any problems with its 
mobile app and has given Mr W advice on what he could do. TSB says the account terms 
and conditions of Mr W's account say that it's not responsible for these sorts of online 
problems.
Mr W brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought TSB's records showed that Mr W was able to use the app on occasions and in any 
event had access to other types of banking. The investigator also thought TSB had given 
advice to Mr W to try to help him, and thought the compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr W doesn't agree with the view and says he has new phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint.
There is no question here that TSB ought to have registered a complaint when Mr W called 
it. But I'm satisfied that TSB has fairly apologised and paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation. I appreciate that is not the main part of Mr W's complaint.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr W would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that TSB isn't responsible 
for matters affecting online access. So I don't think TSB is responsible for Mr W's problems 
with the banking app. I'm satisfied that there could be a number of reasons why Mr W has 
experienced the problems and that those problems may well be outside of TSB's control. I 
think TSB has given what advice it can to try and help Mr W, and I think Mr W has alternative 
ways of banking if he is unable to use the app.
I can't fairly tell TSB how it runs its business or what its systems should be. It follows that I 
can't fairly tell it that it should make sure its operating systems are compatible with Mr W's 
mobile device or that I can fairly order it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman