DRN-1133460
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about problems he had when making a claim on his Assurant General 
Insurance Limited (trading as Protect Your Bubble (PYB)) Gadget Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F contacted PYB to make a claim for a damaged phone on his Gadget Insurance policy. 
He told PYB that he'd exchanged his phone with his network provider so the device he'd 
registered with PYB was different. PYB asked Mr F to provide confirmation of the exchange 
from his network provider, which he did, but it wasn't on headed paper. So it contacted Mr F 
and asked him again for confirmation from the network provider, but this time on headed 
paper. Mr F did provide the confirmation on headed paper, but complained to PYB that it 
didn't tell him in the first call that the confirmation would need to be on headed paper. He 
said this caused a delay which meant he was without a phone for longer than necessary.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He didn't think PYB had caused 
unnecessary delays and didn't think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr F disagreed. He said he asked exactly what he would need when he first called PYB, and 
should've been told the confirmation of exchange needed to be on headed paper. He asked 
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. So it's been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F's policy only provides cover for the device he had registered. As he'd exchanged his 
device with his network provider, and hadn't told PYB, I don't think it was unreasonable for 
PYB to request confirmation of the exchange. 
I know Mr F thinks that PYB should've told him in his first call that the confirmation 
of exchange needed to be on headed paper. It isn't always possible for PYB to cover 
everything they may need in one call, and I don't think they would've expected 
correspondence from a network provider not to be on headed paper. So I don't think it was 
unreasonable for it to not specify this in Mr F's initial call. It's ultimately for the insurer to 
decide, within reason, what they want when assessing a claim and there was always a 
possibility more information may be needed.
I understand it took some time for Mr F to receive the confirmation from his network provider 
on headed paper. But I don't think this was the fault of PYB. It let Mr F know the same day 
he started the claim that it needed to confirmation on headed paper. So even if PYB had 
specified during the first call that he would need the confirmation on headed paper, I'm not 
persuaded he would've got it any sooner from his network provider. Based on this, I don't think PYB has caused unnecessary delays in the handling of Mr F's 
claim. Ultimately, the claim was dealt with in around four days, which I don't think is an 
unreasonable time frame. So I'm not going to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman