DRN-3027005
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 to
protect a credit card. Ms G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Ms G aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her account. Lloyds has provided a copy of the paperwork available from the 
time the policy was sold. The credit card application form has a section for PPI where the 
option to take the policy has been selected. The form has also been signed by Ms G in 
agreement with the selections that were made. So, I think the policy was presented as 
optional and Ms G chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms G so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. Ms G 
has told us she was self-employed when she took the PPI. But the policy didnt make it any 
more difficult for a self-employed person to make a claim. And based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. She also seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And
it seems like it would have been useful for Ms G if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Ms G off 
taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms G because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms G about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms G, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms G any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman