DRN-3989003
The complaint
C, a company, complains about a claim made under its DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy.
The complaint is brought by Ms H on Cs behalf, but for ease of reading I shall refer to all of 
her submissions as Cs own. 
What happened
C made a claim on its DAS legal expenses insurance policy for cover to defend a claim 
against it by one of its former employees.
DAS appointed a panel firm to consider the claim but that panel firm wasnt able to take it on 
because it didnt have capacity to do so. As such DAS referred the matter to a second panel 
firm to consider. The second panel firm determined Cs claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success as defined and required by the policy. Because of this DAS told C it 
was unable to fund its claim.
C challenged DAS position. DAS explained that C did have options open to it that might help 
it obtain funding. It asked C to discuss with the second panel firm whether there was any 
evidence or otherwise it could provide to influence the merits of its claim more positively or in 
the alternative instruct a barrister to consider things afresh. DAS said it would cover the 
barristers costs provided it agreed the cost estimate for those in advance and the opinion 
demonstrated Cs claim had reasonable prospects of success. C provided DAS with a cost 
estimate for its barristers costs, which DAS approved.
C then went on to defend the claim against its former employee directly. It then asked DAS 
to reimburse it for the costs it incurred on the basis that DAS should have covered its claim. 
DAS declined. 
Our investigator considered Cs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
DAS was entitled to rely on the opinion of the second panel firm and that C hadnt provided 
anything from either its barrister or own Solicitor which supported its claim had reasonable 
prospects of success. As such DAS hadnt authorised the costs C had incurred so it was 
entitled to turn down cover. The investigator also pointed out that DAS hadnt cancelled 
cover as suggested by C, but rather had turned down covering this specific claim.
C doesnt agree. It says the policy allows it freedom to choose its own Solicitor to act for it 
and that its own Solicitors costs were lower than the second panel firms rates in any event. 
C also says that the lawyer that advised on its claim was inexperienced and that DAS has a 
conflict of interest because it appointed the firm that turned down its claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as those 
reached by the investigator. 
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Cs
policy is no exception. That means its claim needed to be more likely than not to succeed in 
order for DAS to cover it. 
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the
insurer has acted fairly. So long as it has got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we
wont generally question its reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong
or based on factual mistakes. DAS did this. They obtained the advice of the second panel 
firm who determined that Cs complaint didnt have reasonable prospects of being 
successful. Thats not to say that the case was unwinnable, just that it was more likely than 
not to fail. I appreciate that C obtained its own representation and defended the claim 
separately, but Ive seen nothing that persuasively sets out why the second panel firms 
advice was wrong nor that Cs merits in defending the claim were higher than previously 
advised. 
Although C has talked about the Solicitor for the panel firm being inexperienced, Im satisfied 
that she was suitably experienced in the area of law C was asking for help with and theres 
nothing to suggest that opinion was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. It may be 
that Cs own Solicitor had more experience, but that doesnt mean the Solicitor who advised 
C from the second panel firm didnt have suitable experience such that wed consider DAS to 
be wrong to have relied on the advice. Because of this I think DAS were entitled to place 
reliance on it when declining cover.
After declining cover DAS did give C the opportunity to provide its own advice on the merits 
of its claim. C even obtained and authorised a cost estimate of instructing a Barrister to 
provide advice with DAS, but if the advice was obtained, it wasnt presented to DAS. C could 
also have provided DAS with its own Solicitors opinion on the merits of the claim rather than 
a Barristers opinion. Given C went off to incur costs to defend the claim anyway, I dont think 
this would have been onerous. I dont have any information to explain why C didnt go back 
to DAS with a conflicting opinion once DAS set out its position. Instead, it did so after it had 
incurred considerable costs and asked DAS to fund them. Thats not something I think DAS 
are obliged to do. And the policy terms make it clear that costs wont be covered unless DAS 
agree to them in advance and in writing. In the absence of that, I dont think DAS need to do 
anything further in this case.
C has referred to its policy being cancelled without adequate notice being given. As the 
investigator explained, thats not what happened here. DAS simply declined a claim that C 
made under its policy. Thats not the same as the policy being cancelled. Rather it remains 
in place until its expiry.
C has said that it was entitled to the freedom to choose its own Solicitor. Its correct that C 
was entitled to the freedom to choose its own Solicitor when legal proceedings became 
necessary. That means that at the point at which legal proceedings were afoot and 
negotiations failed. But that term is subject to Cs claim having reasonable prospects of 
succeeding. In this case C didnt demonstrate that at all by way of an alternative legal 
opinion of any kind. Because of this coupled with the fact that C didnt obtain DAS agreement to the costs it incurred, I cant say DAS need to do anything further.
Finally, C has referred to there being a conflict of interest between DAS and the panel firm. 
Whilst DAS have a commercial relationship with the panel firm, I havent seen anything to 
suggest this amounts to a conflict of interest. I say so because the panel firm is a separate 
independent firm of professionals with their own code of conduct and regulator. They may 
well take on insurance funded work for DAS, but this in itself doesnt amount to a conflict or 
interest. If C remains unhappy with the conduct of the panel firm, it can raise this with them 
directly or complain to The Legal Ombudsman.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Cs complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman