DRN-1128733
 
The complaint
Ms Cs unhappy about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decision to turn 
down her claim made under a pet insurance policy.
All references in this decision to Red Sands include its claims-handling agents.
What happened
Briefly, Ms C took out an annually renewable policy in September 2017 (shed taken out 
similar cover with Red Sands in previous years). Ms C made a claim on the policy in 2018 
for her pets CT scan. Red Sands assessed the claim and decided not to pay it. That was 
because, among other things, it said the policy covered medical conditions for a year from 
when they first occurred. And, as the scan was performed more than a year after the 
condition  a cough  was first noticed, it wasnt payable.
Unhappy with Red Sands decision, Ms C complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. They felt Red Sands was entitled to turn down 
the claim based on the policy terms and the clinical evidence.
Ms C didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is for me to explain what the policy terms say Red Sands wont cover. 
Most relevantly, for example, the policy summary made it clear that the policy only covered 
vet fees for up to 365 days only from the date of occurrence. So, vet fees incurred more 
than a year from the date of occurrence of a medical condition wouldnt be covered by Red 
Sands.
The CT scan Ms C claimed for was performed in February 2018. Red Sands says the 
condition giving rise to the need for the scan first occurred more than a year before February 
2018 and so the claim isnt payable. To determine if thats the case, and if theres a link, Ive 
carefully considered the evidence from the time of the claim and the pets clinical history. 
The CT scan report of February 2018 showed the clinical history as including Choking 
coughing for 2 years. The radiologist commented that the cause of clinical signs was 
uncertain as, although the heart was enlarged, it wouldnt explain the coughing. Other 
pathologies, such as chronic bronchitis or dynamic airway collapse, couldnt be excluded.In May 2018, the vets surgery contacted Red Sands via the latters claim portal to say the 
CT scan hadnt made a definitive diagnosis of the cough. The diagnosis given for the claim 
was Coughing likely mechanical.
In October 2018, the vet wrote to confirm the CT scan was recommended for determining 
the possible presence of cancer. They said it wasnt performed for the investigation of the 
pets cough. And Ive considered this very carefully, especially as its evidence from the pets 
treating vet.
That said, Im more inclined to rely on the medical information prior, and directly leading up, 
to the CT scan in the circumstances. Thats because thats information thats been gathered 
with the aim of investigating and treating Ms Cs pet rather than to support an insurance 
claim. Ive summarised some of the important entries here:
February 2017  more coughing noted recently. Occasional cough had always been 
present but it was becoming more noticeable.
February 2018  reference to Ms Cs pet coughing more
Later in February 2018  pet has had choking cough for years
Later in February 2018  cause of cough thought to be unlikely to be heart-related. 
CT scan recommended.
Later in February 2018  CT scan for coughing was authorised by the vet
Later in February 2018  cause of coughing thought likely to be mechanical. 
Medication prescribed on that basis. 
 
In my view, the above indicates the CT scan was largely to determine the cause of Ms Cs 
pets cough  whether or not that was believed to be cancer-related. The cough had been 
present for some time before the policy was renewed in September 2017. On balance, the 
evidence suggests to me it first occurred more than a year before the CT scan was 
performed. 
I understand Ms C wasnt advised her pet should have the scan until 2018. But that doesnt 
mean the condition giving rise to the need for the scan didnt occur before then. Given the 
medical information, I think it likely the condition did occur before then  and by more than a 
year. So, in my view, Red Sands was entitled to decline the claim in the circumstances. 
Ive also considered what Ms Cs said about what she was told by Red Sands when she 
called to discuss the CT scan just after it had been recommended but before it was 
performed. She says Red Sands led her to believe the claim would be paid and that she 
went ahead with the scan on that basis. Having listened to recordings of the two calls in 
question, Red Sands made it clear the claim would be subject to review and that the 365-day 
rule would apply. I dont believe Red Sands mis-led Ms C or unreasonably raised her 
expectations of how the policy might respond to her claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, and while Im sorry to have to disappoint Ms C, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman