DRN-2851055
The complaint
Mr E complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr E was given a single loan by Everyday Loans as follows: 
Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Principal 
loan 
amountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
28/05/2019 12/02/2020 18 £1,500.00 £142.85
Mr E brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with Everyday Loans. 
In summary, Mr E didnt think that Everyday Loans made sufficient checks and it didnt lend 
to him responsibly because it provided a very expensive loan to repay other interest bearing 
loans and this loan wasnt affordable for him. Mr E told us that his dealings with Everyday 
Loans had a detrimental impact on his financial position and also on his health. 
  
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. She thought that whilst Everyday 
Loans had carried out proportionate checks to see if Mr E could afford the loan the 
information it saw was concerning and should have prompted Everyday Loans to find out 
more before deciding to lend. She said that the figure it worked out for Mr Es disposable 
income, and what it knew about his home circumstances, wasnt consistent with Mr E having 
taken out four other short-term loans in the month running up to his application for this loan. 
Our adjudicator said this pointed to underlying money management problems and if 
Everyday Loans had made more in-depth enquiries it wouldve likely seen a cycle of payday 
borrowing. So our adjudicator felt that using this loan to consolidate Mr Es four outstanding 
loans wasnt likely to improve his situation and Everyday Loans should have recognised that 
he would be unable to sustainably repay this loan. She set out detailed directions indicating 
what Everyday Loans needed to do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree that it provided this loan irresponsibly and asked for an 
ombudsman review. It mainly said that it had considered the four loans that our adjudicator 
mentioned when assessing Mr Es application and this loan was provided to take him out of 
the payday loan cycle. It said that Mr E wouldve had to pay more to meet his monthly 
obligations without this loan. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. And Ive taken all this into account when Ive been thinking about this 
complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. The rules dont say what 
a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks 
should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend 
on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, 
the cost of the repayments and how long the loan was for, a proportionate check might mean 
a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or check the borrowers overall 
financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks are done and 
a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other reason 
why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve realised 
that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is already 
struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally be more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and a borrower has to make payments for an extended period).
So when thinking about whether Everyday Loans took reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didnt lend irresponsibly Ive thought about the following key questions:
Did Everyday Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr E was in a position to repay the loan in a way that was sustainable for him  
and react appropriately to information that those checks showed? 
If Everyday Loans didnt carry out enough checks, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have likely shown if theyd been done when they shouldve 
been? 
Was Everyday Loans lending decision fair?
Did Everyday Loans act in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable?  
Everyday Loans asked Mr E about his employment and income and gathered information 
about what he was spending his money on. It recorded Mr Es income as £1,249 per month. 
Mr E said his monthly outgoings were just £50 because he lived at home with his parents. 
But, when looking at what he could afford, Everyday Loans relied on information from the 
Office for National Statistics and boosted this figure to allow for Mr Es living expenses being 
£447. By Everyday Loans reckoning, Mr E shouldve had around £609 left over  which made it 
look like the monthly repayments for this loan would be comfortably affordable. 
Everyday Loans also asked Mr E to provide a bank statement showing his transactions over 
the previous 6 weeks or so. Everyday Loans noted in its records that these showed no 
payment being returned and no charges. And whilst it could see hed been paying 6 payday 
loans, only 4 were still active.
As part of the application process, Everyday Loans took details from Mr E about the 
outstanding short-term loans he said he intended to pay using the loan that Everyday Loans 
provided. 
Everyday Loans accepted Mr Es assertion that he planned to use the loan it provided to 
clear these loans. But I dont think that Everyday Loans properly took into account the 
information it had gathered. The discrepancy between what Everyday Loans could see about 
Mr Es borrowing history and what hed said about his finances and his home circumstances 
makes me think that the lenders checks werent proportionate. I think Everyday Loans 
should have carried out more in-depth checks before agreeing to provide this loan to Mr E to 
ensure that it had a proper understanding of his financial situation. And I think the 
information Everyday Loans had gathered painted a picture of someone struggling to 
manage money problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mr E might be 
experiencing financial difficulty.  
Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Mr E has provided a credit report so Ive looked through this to see what Everyday Loans 
was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. To be clear, Im not 
suggesting the lender should have necessarily asked to see Mr Es credit report. Everyday 
Loans could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to carry 
out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. And Im aware that its own credit checks 
might not have shown exactly the same information that I've seen. But in the absence of 
other evidence, I think the credit report Mr E has sent me gives a reasonable insight into his 
financial situation at the time. 
And, had Everyday Loans done proportionate checking, I think that it would likely have seen 
that Mr E had an established record of reliance on short-term loans. This wasnt explainable 
just by what Mr E had said about using the loans when he went on holiday with friends. 
Rather, it suggested that he was facing serious problems managing his money. 
I've taken carefully into account that Everyday Loans told me that the loan it provided 
wouldve enabled Mr E to break his cycle of dependency on high cost borrowing. And that if 
hed used the loan for debt consolidation he wouldve had more disposable income each 
month. But, Im not persuaded that this is enough to make me think that it would be fair not 
to uphold this complaint. I say this for the following reasons.
I can see from the contact notes that Everyday Loans provided that it offered to lend £2,000 
to Mr E. This was almost twice the amount needed to clear the loans Mr E said he wanted to 
pay  the notes suggest Mr E just needed around £1,100 to do that and hed only asked for 
£1,500. That makes me wonder how far Everyday Loans was considering its borrowers 
interests  as a responsible lender is required to do. 
I accept that it can sometimes be fair to provide an expensive loan to pay other credit. But 
this loan was for around £400 more than needed for that purpose. 
As well as this, Mr E signed up to pay this loan over a much longer period than he wouldve 
been paying the loans he said he intended to clear. So the potential short-term improvement in his monthly spend on other credit was substantially off-set by Mr E having to pay this 
expensive loan for a lot longer. 
I think that Mr Es credit history, and particularly the fact that he had taken out at least 7 
other short-term loans in the preceding six months or so, shouldve alerted Everyday Loans 
to the risk that it couldnt safely assume Mr E would use the money for debt consolidation. 
Everyday Loans didnt take any steps to mitigate the risk that lending to him wouldnt make 
his financial situation worse. As far as I can see, the loan it provided was paid directly into 
Mr Es bank account. So Everyday Loans had no control over how Mr E actually spent the 
money it provided.
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr E wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debts. Given his recent borrowing and the unexplained discrepancies 
in his finances, there was a real risk that Mr E might use this loan to help him meet his 
immediate need to make loan repayments or to fund other unaccounted for spending that 
appeared to have led to Mr E being reliant on payday loans, with the result this loan would 
simply add to his existing debt. 
And even if Mr E had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Everyday 
Loans had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation. 
I think the concerns Ive mentioned are borne out by the fact that theres no clear information 
showing that Mr E used this loan for its stated purpose. Weve been told by Mr Es 
representative that the loan was used to fund gambling. 
And I can see from his credit file that Mr E continued to take out expensive borrowing after 
this loan. Within a couple of weeks Mr E took on another loan from a different lender  which 
he ended up defaulting on.   
So for these reasons, Im planning on upholding this complaint.  
I havent identified any other reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award, 
over and above the proposed redress which Ive set out below.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr E told us he had nothing further to add. 
Everyday Loans acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but hasnt commented 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things rightI think its fair and reasonable for Mr E to repay the principal amount that he borrowed when 
he took out this loan because hes had the benefit of the loan. But he has paid interest (and 
possibly charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
Everyday Loans should take the following steps:
A) refund everything Mr E paid over the principal loan amount and repay this to Mr E 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman