DRN-3570522
The complaint
Ms S complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
 
What happened
In February 2014 Ms S applied for, and was given a loan for £3,000, which was repayable 
over a period of 36 months. The repayments were around £155 a month, and in total Ms S 
agreed to pay back just over £5,500 over the three years, once interest was added. 
Ms S says 1Plus1 Loans shouldnt have given her the loan because it wasnt affordable. 
1Plus1 Loans says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and Ms S had enough 
disposable income to make the loan repayments.
Our investigator thought Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. 1Plus1 Loans disagreed, so 
this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss complaint. 
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms S 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Ms S would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. 
1Plus1 Loans did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. But I agree with 
the investigator that given the total cost of repaying the money Ms S was borrowing, the 
information she had provided about her income and expenditure, together with the 
information on her credit file, 1Plus1 Loans checks werent good enough. 
1Plus1 Loans asked for some information from Ms S before it approved the loan. It asked for 
details of her income and expenditure and verified these with third parties. It reviewed her 
credit file to understand her credit history and existing commitments. It also asked about the 
purpose of the loan, which Ms S said was for bits and bobs. From these checks combined 
1Plus1 Loans concluded that Ms S had enough monthly disposable income to afford the 
loan. But I dont think it reacted appropriately to the data it gathered when it made its lending 
decision. Ill explain why.
Based on 1Plus1 Loans checks, it concluded Ms S had a monthly disposable income of 
around £230. This included a buffer of £200 on top of her recorded expenses but didnt 
include the cost of the new loan. Having listened to the call Ms S had with 1Plus1 Loans, it 
seems it didnt take into account the costs Ms S told them about for her mobile phone, which 
was about £34 a month. So that already takes her recorded disposable income down to less 
than £200.
On the face of it, even factoring in the mobile phone costs, this might suggest she did have 
enough to afford the monthly repayment. But the information 1Plus1 Loans had from Ms Ss 
credit file and the conversation it had with her, strongly suggests it was unlikely she did have 
this amount of disposable income.
The credit file showed Ms S had eight accounts that had been defaulted, the most recent 
about 18 months earlier. The total outstanding balance on these accounts was nearly 
£4,000. Ms S confirmed in the conversation with 1Plus1 Loans she wasnt making any 
payments towards these debts. It also showed she had two active loans totalling around 
£4,800 and an active catalogue shopping account with an outstanding balance of about 
£150. She was three months in arrears with her payments on this account. During the call 
with 1Plus1 Loans, Ms S also mentioned taking out two payday loans in recent months.
The fact Ms S had defaults recorded on her credit file wouldnt be enough on its own to say 
she couldnt afford the new loan. And in this case, the defaults werent that recent. 1Plus1 
Loans factored in the cost of repaying the balances of the defaulted accounts in its 
affordability calculation  it added £120 to her outgoings. Its right it did this as Ms S still 
owed the money and should have been repaying it. 
But it knew Ms S wasnt actually making any payments towards these accounts, which if the 
information it had about Ms Ss income and outgoings was accurate, would mean she had 
about £550 disposable income each month (before she took out this loan). If this was 
accurate, it raises the questions  why had she not been making the small repayment for her 
catalogue shopping account? And why had she needed to take out payday loans in recent 
times? This would suggest she didnt have the level of disposable income 1Plus1 Loans 
concluded she had.
Ms S already had outstanding debt totalling about £8,800  a large part of this 1Plus1 Loans 
knew she wasnt repaying. All the information available shows Ms S was already struggling 
to afford to repay the debt she had, and that was before the added expenditure of the 
repayments towards the new loan she was taking out.
While it would be helpful to have more information about Ms Ss financial situation in 2014, 
by way of bank statements for example, I dont think this is needed for me to make a fair 
decision. Based on the information we do have  and that 1Plus1 Loans had at the time  I 
think theres enough to say Ms S wasnt in a position to take on any more debt. So I think it 
was wrong of 1Plus1 Loans to give the loan to Ms S. 
1Plus1 Loans has made the point that Ms S made all her repayments. But it doesnt know 
how she managed to do this, so I dont think this shows the loan was affordable.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Ms S in 
the position she would now be in if she hadnt been given the loan in question. However, this 
isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. 
Ms S was given the loan and she used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Ms S back in the position she would be 
in if she hadnt been given the loan in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way of 
putting things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think 1Plus1 Loans should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans from the outset. The 
payments Ms S made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Ms S has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Ms S to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ss credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans should give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ss complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited 
should put things right for Ms S in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman