DRN-4471238
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to notify her that her credit card was 
due to expire, resulting in her account being closed. 
What happened
Mrs M had a credit card account with Nationwide. She lives overseas but uses her credit 
card to purchase items in the UK. Mrs M called Nationwide in November 2022 as her card 
had expired and she was concerned a new one had been lost in the post. Nationwide said it 
had sent a letter to Mrs M saying that as there had been no activity on her account, she 
would need to use her card or her account would close. It also said Mrs M could fully close 
her account and then apply for a new credit card account five days later. Mrs M said she 
hadnt received the use it or lose it letter and when she tried to open a new account, she 
was unable to as she wasnt a UK resident. So, she complained.
Nationwide said it doesnt send out replacement cards to customers living overseas. Instead, 
the cardholder would need to contact Nationwide and if that doesnt happen within six 
months, itll close the account. So, it didnt think there had been any mistake relating to the 
renewal of Mrs Ms card. But it said it had made a mistake when it told Mrs M it had sent her 
a use it or lose it letter. It hadnt done that. It said it only sent those letters to customers 
living in the UK. It also said it had made a mistake in saying Mrs M could reapply for a new 
account after 5 days of it showing as being closed. It said it should actually have been 72 
hours and this only applied to residents of the UK. It apologised for the inaccurate 
information provided and offered Mrs M £75 for any distress or inconvenience caused. 
Mrs M wasnt happy so brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think 
Nationwide needed to do anything more. She thought £75 was fair compensation for the 
customer service Mrs M received. But she didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly by not 
renewing her card.
As Mrs M didnt accept the investigators outcome, her complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. I reached a different outcome to that reached by our investigator and so I issued a 
provisional decision, which I shared with both parties. Ive set out the main part of my 
findings below: 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms credit card account say that Nationwide can 
close her account at any time. But, importantly, it adds that it will provide her with at 
least two months notice before it does that. I assume thats so its customers can 
decide if they want to continue using their account. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mrs M was given two months notice before her account was closed.
In any event, Nationwide didnt close Mrs Ms account six months after her card 
expired. It only closed her account in November 2022, which was over a year after 
her card expired. And its not clear to me why it closed her account at that time. Mrs 
M called Nationwide in November 2022 because she wanted to use her credit card 
when she travelled to the UK and noticed it had expired. Nationwide has accepted 
she was misadvised in this call, saying it had sent her a use it or lose it message 
when it hadnt and by saying she could reapply for a card within 5 days of closure 
when it was 72 hours and this only applied to residents of the UK. 
The outcome of the call was that Mrs Ms account was closed and she wasnt able to 
reapply for a new card because shes not a UK resident so she doesnt meet the 
eligibility rules. This was the opposite of what she wanted and, in light of the 
information Ive seen, I think shes been treated unfairly. She wasnt given two 
months notice of closure and she was denied the opportunity to keep her account 
open and active.
Putting things right
Mrs M says she wants her credit card account reopened. Nationwide believes it was 
justified in closing her account due to inactivity. Its pointed to the terms and 
conditions of her account, which say it might decide to close her account if she hasnt 
made any transactions for 12 months or more. And Mrs M hadnt made any 
transactions for more than 12 months. I should note though that this is only on the 
proviso it gives her two months notice before doing so, which it didnt do. Nationwide 
also said reopening Mrs Ms account would be a risk to its business should she find 
herself in a position where shes unable to repay the debt, as it would have no legal 
recourse to recover the debt. I assume thats because Mrs M lives overseas.
I think it was unfair of Nationwide to close Mrs Ms account. But had it done things 
correctly and notified her of its intention to close the account, I cant say for sure she 
would have made the transactions necessary to keep the account open. In light of 
what Nationwide has said, and on balance, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Nationwide to reopen Mrs Ms credit card account. 
Nationwide has already offered Mrs M £75 for the inconvenience caused by providing 
inaccurate information in the call of November 2022. But I think it should do 
something more to acknowledge the fact Mrs M was deprived of the opportunity to 
keep her credit card account open. Had she been able to do that, she would not have 
needed to arrange different ways of planning her finances when she travelled to the 
UK in late 2022. She has also said shes found it extremely taxing having to deal with 
this matter, which has caused her significant stress. She said she found this 
particularly challenging because at the time of these events she was recovering from 
an accident in which she sustained a traumatic brain injury amongst other serious 
and life changing injuries. 
I think a further payment of £175 (in addition to the £75 already offered) would be a 
fair and reasonable way of putting matters right in all the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said they were happy to accept the outcome Id recommended in my provisional 
decision. Mrs M provided a number of comments. She pointed out that she had used her 
credit card on numerous occasions to make purchases in the UK since she moved abroad 
about ten years ago. She said shes never had any issues regarding payments to her credit 
card account and thought the risk exposure to Nationwide was very low, particularly as she 
had regular funds going into her Nationwide current account.
Mrs M also provided further information about the accident she sustained in December 2018. She said this relates directly to why she hadnt used her credit card for an extensive period 
of time between that date and 2022. And she didnt think the extenuating circumstances of 
her situation had been taken into account. In conclusion, Mrs M didnt think it was fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide not to reopen her credit card account. She didnt think £175 was a 
fair way of resolving her complaint as it didnt put her back into the position she would have 
been in but for the errors made by Nationwide.
I should start by reassuring Mrs M that I have carefully considered all the evidence in front of 
me, including the information she kindly shared with us about the accident she sustained in 
2018. I have also reviewed matters in light of the information shes most recently shared with 
us. I can appreciate why Mrs M thinks my decision is unfair given Ive found the way 
Nationwide closed her account was unfair. But this doesnt change the fact that Nationwide 
isnt obliged to keep her as a customer  just as she was never obliged to keep her credit 
card account with Nationwide. Its entitled to close her account - thats a commercial decision 
for it to take.
Nationwide accepts it didnt give Mrs M the two months notice of closure it should have 
done. But I dont think it would be right to reinstate her credit card on that basis alone. Mrs M 
says the risk to Nationwides business is very low, and that may be the case. But the 
account is usually only open to UK residents and Mrs M lives abroad, so I think thats a 
relevant factor to take into consideration. Another factor, as Ive said in my provisional 
decision, is that had Nationwide done things correctly and notified Mrs M of its intention to 
close the account, I cant say for sure she would have made the transactions necessary to 
keep the account open. Ive taken account of what Mrs M has said about her recovery from 
the accident. Nonetheless, Nationwide could have reasonably closed her account earlier 
than it did had it notified her properly and not received a response.
I appreciate that Mrs M feels strongly about this issue and I know this decision will come as 
a disappointment to her. But, on balance, I dont think it would be right to require Nationwide 
to open her account again. 
I do think Nationwide should compensate Mrs M for being deprived of the opportunity to 
keep her account open, and for the other customer service issues shes experienced, as 
noted above. And I think the amount I recommended in my provisional decision is a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint in all the circumstances.
My final decision
In light of my findings above, my final decision is that Nationwide should pay Mrs M a further 
£175, on top of the £75 it has already offered, to recognise the poor service its provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman