DRN-2547701
The complaint
Ms W has complained that the guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy which MotoNovo 
Finance Limited (MFL) sold to her didn't provide the cover she expected.
What happened
In 2017 Ms W took out a car on finance provided by MFL. After shed done so she later 
spoke with it about amending her payment dates. During that call it sold her a GAP policy.
In 2020 Ms Ws car was stolen. At that point she learned that her GAP policy wouldn't return 
all her finance payments or cover the difference between what she paid for her car and her 
comprehensive motor insurer's settlement (the settlement) as shed expected. Ms W 
complained to MFL. In reply it said it hadn't told Ms W the GAP policy would cover the 
difference between the purchase price and the settlement. It said it had told her the policy 
would cover any shortfall between the settlement and the amount outstanding on her finance 
agreement. But, for other reasons connected with the phone call, it agreed it had mis-sold 
the policy. So it said it would refund the premium and add simple interest to the refund. Ms 
W didn't think that went far enough and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He thought MFL had dealt with the matter reasonably. Ms W didn't agree so 
her complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Ive listened to the phone call when MFL sold Ms W the GAP policy. And when discussing its 
benefits MFL only ever referred to covering the shortfall between the settlement and the 
outstanding finance. I haven't heard anything in that phone call which would have given 
Ms W the impression it would either pay the difference between the settlement and the 
purchase price nor that it would cover payments shed already made to her finance 
company. 
I understand that by the time Ms Ws car was stolen the settlement was actually more than 
the outstanding finance. So there was nothing for the GAP policy to cover. Ms Ws said that 
as a result shes out of pocket. The implication being that wouldn't be the case if MFL had 
sold her the policy with the benefits shed expected. 
It might help if I explained that there are a number of different types of GAP policies 
available to consumers. And some of those will pay claims based on the difference between 
the settlement and the purchase price of the car. Such policies are generally known as 
return to invoice (RTI) policies. But at no time during the sales call did MFL suggest that was 
the policy it was selling to her. So I don't think MFL unfairly raised Ms Ws expectations 
about what her policy covered. And if Ms W hadn't wanted the policy it did sell to her then 
she could have cancelled it within its 30 day cooling off period and bought an RTI policy. But 
she didn't do so. 
I understand that, at the point Ms Ws car was stolen, she was disappointed her GAP policy 
was no longer of value to her. But that doesn't mean that it wasnt ever appropriate for her 
needs. That's because, had her car been stolen or deemed a total loss earlier, when there 
was still a significant amount to pay on her finance, then it's likely the policy would have 
been of benefit to her. Thats because it would have paid the difference between the 
settlement and the amount outstanding on the finance. 
Ms Ws also said that its notable that MFL no longer offers the same policy it sold to her. 
This isn't a point I've verified or investigated. But a brief look at MFLs website shows it still 
offers a shortfall GAP policy with similar benefits to the policy Ms W complained about. And 
there could be numerous reasons why a finance provider would no longer offer a certain 
insurance product for sale. For example, because it no longer has a relationship with the 
underwriter of the policy or the underwriter itself has withdrawn the specific policy. So I don't 
find the fact that MFL might no longer offer the same policy to be persuasive that MFL 
misled Ms W as to the GAP policys benefits.
That said, I note MFL agreed that it had mis-sold the policy to Ms W. It appears it did so 
because its representative improperly used the term scot free, which it believes could have 
been misleading. And it offered to refund the GAP premium together with simple interest at a 
rate of 8% a year. I think that was a reasonable offer in the circumstances. Ms Ws told us 
that MFL hasn't yet provided that refund. So I think its fair that it refunds her now. But, for 
the reasons given above I'm not going to instruct it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. For the reasons set out above I think its fair 
and reasonable MotoNovo Finance Limited refunds Ms W the premium she paid for her 
GAP policy in 2017. It should add simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, 
from the date she paid for it to the date it refunds her.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If MFL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.