DRN-3747151
The complaint
Mr H, as a director of S (a limited company), complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) 
wont refund S for a loss they suffered as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this case is not in dispute so I wont be going into details. In summary, an 
employee of S was completing a university course while working for them. S was due to pay 
for the next years study costs for the employee and received an invoice from the university. 
This email was intercepted by a fraudster who changed the bank details and received the 
money, rather than the university S expected to pay.
S made two separate payments to the fraudster. On 29 March 2021 they paid £1,000 and on 
30 March 2021 they paid a further £3,500.
S says they received a Confirmation of Payee (COP) no match, so they contacted the 
university to check the payment details. But, due to Covid, the accounts team were working 
off site and werent taking phone calls. S says they were told to check the invoice details for 
the bank information, so proceeded with making the payment.
S became aware theyd been the victim of a scam when the university got in touch later, 
asking for payment of the course fees. S contacted Starling immediately and raised a fraud 
claim, asking Starling to reimburse them.
Starling considered Ss claim in line with the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Code (the CRM Code), but declined to refund S saying:
S ignored warnings provided by Starling at the time of making the payments.
S didnt do enough checks prior to making the payment and shouldve taken further 
precautions to find out why the beneficiary account information had changed.
S wasnt happy with Starlings response, so they brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ss complaint and upheld it. They explained to Starling that the 
warnings provided to S didnt meet the definition of an Effective Warning under the CRM 
Code, and therefore Starling couldnt rely on them as a reason not to refund S. The 
investigator also felt that S made sufficient checks and had a reasonable basis to believe 
they were paying the university - therefore Starling couldnt rely on that as a reason not to 
reimburse S either. The investigator recommended that Starling reimburse S in full and 
awarded interest at 8% simple.
Starling disagreed with the investigators opinion, giving the following reasons:
One of the emails from the fraudster showed that their email address was different to 
the genuine sender S had been dealing with. Also, the signature under the senders 
name had changed.
S shouldve been concerned that they were being asked to pay an individual trading 
as the university.
Ss first payment was restricted to only £1,000 due to a Confirmation of Payee (COP) 
no match  meaning that the payee information on the payment couldnt be matched 
to the account holder name. Therefore, S shouldve done more checks
S selected the wrong payment purpose when making the payment, which meant they 
werent shown the correct warning. If theyd correctly selected invoice/bill rather 
than purchase the warning they wouldve seen wouldve made more sense.
The universitys correct payment information was available on their website and 
Starling believe if S had called the university its likely they wouldve directed him to 
their website  which wouldve highlighted that the bank details didnt match.
As Starling disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling are a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Starling says two of those 
exceptions apply in this case.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
* there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Did Starling provide an effective warning as defined by the CRM Code?
When S set up the new payee to pay the university, Starling say they wouldve seen the 
following warning, could this payee be part of a scam? Always verify who you are sending 
money to as you may not be able to recover these funds
Starling also say S was provided with a warning based on the payment purpose they chose 
of purchase. That warning said Fraudsters often pretend to sell items online. Theyll take 
your money and send you nothing in return. If you have not seen the item in person perform 
checks on the seller.. 
Having considered both warnings, Im not satisfied that they meet the definition of effective 
warnings as set out in the CRM Code  for the following reasons:
The new payee warning doesnt include any information about the type of scam S 
mayve fallen victim to, what steps S should take to protect themselves, and requires S to click through a link to Starlings website to find out more information about 
scams. Im not satisfied that this wouldve been impactful as S was expecting to 
receive the invoice from the university and the amount requested matched the 
information theyd been given about the payment. So, Im not satisfied that this 
warning wouldve been impactful to S.
The payment purpose warning relates to buying something online and is more 
relevant to someone who mayve made a purchase on an online marketplace. The 
warnings isnt relevant to the scam that S was the victim of. They had been dealing 
with the university for some time and the payments there were asked to make 
matched the fee theyd been quoted in earlier emails. Also, the suggested steps set 
out in the warning, wouldnt have helped S avoid falling victim to this scam.
Starling have referred to the warning S wouldve seen had they selected a different payment 
purpose of invoice/bill. 
The invoice/bill warning says, Fraudsters can take over email addresses or call from 
seemingly reputable numbers, posing as genuine organisations or business associates. 
Have you been asked to make an unexpected payment? Have you been told that the 
account details for a payment have been changed? Check any unexpected or amended 
instructions via a trusted channel that is separate to the one that they used to contact you. 
Visit the website to learn more about how to protect yourself from fraud. 
However, Im not satisfied that even if S was presented with that warning it would change the 
outcome, as Im not satisfied that it was an effective warning, or that S ignored it. 
In this case, S hadnt been asked to make an unexpected payment so that 
didnt apply to their scam. 
The instructions in the email werent unexpected or amended as referred to in 
the warning. The email continued on a chain with the genuine university 
contact, the amount they were asked to pay was the expected amount 
previously discussed, and all of the information provided in the email matched 
what S expected.
Also, S had contacted the university by phone, as suggested by the warning. 
However they were only able to proceed based on what the university told 
them which was to use the information that had been provided on the invoice. 
S were specifically told that they couldnt talk to anyone in the accounts team. 
So, S took the recommended steps suggested in the warning and didnt 
ignore them. Also, Im conscious that this warning isnt specific with regards to 
the consequences if S proceeded.
Taking these warnings individually and also collectively, Im not satisfied that Starling 
provided specific, impactful warnings to S as required under the CRM Code. So, Im not 
satisfied that Starling can fairly apply this exception as a reason not to reimburse S.
Did S have a reasonable basis for believing they were paying the person they expected?
The second reason Starling say theyre not liable to reimburse S, relates to whether S had a 
reasonable basis to believe they were paying the person they expected.
In this case, Im satisfied that S did have a reasonable basis for belief, and Ill explain why.
S had been dealing with a genuine university contact with regards to the course their 
employee was attending. At some point the emails between S and the university were 
intercepted by the fraudster and they changed the content of the emails being sent to S. Having reviewed the intercepted emails S received, Im not satisfied that there was enough 
about these that S shouldve realized theyd been altered. 
The information provided in them included quite specific guidance around costs and 
information about the course, also the tone of the emails didnt significantly change. While 
the email address had changed it came up with the senders name as a known contact, so 
didnt automatically show the whole email address. The name looked slightly different, but I 
think its only with the benefit of hindsight and knowing it had been changed that its obvious.
When S tried to make their first payment, they received a COP result which said the payee 
details didnt match the account holder information. This restricted the first payment S could 
make to only £1,000, which meant they had to make the second payment the following day.
S says it often sees a COP no match when making payments. They say it happens on 
genuine invoices on a regular basis, so they dont tend to be concerned when it happens. 
But S did take steps to confirm that the bank account information they were given were 
correct. Mr H called the university and tried to talk to the accounts team but was told that 
they werent contactable by phone and that he should email them. Mr H says the call handler 
at the university also told him to refer to the details provided on the invoice. 
The university later apologised to Mr H for the situation and confirmed that the accounts 
team were indeed working off site and werent contactable by phone when he made this 
payment. So, the only way Mr H couldve confirmed the bank details was through email, 
which was being controlled by the fraudster. Im not persuaded that Mr H shouldve checked 
the university website for the bank account information, as hed queried the details and been 
told the information on the invoice was correct. 
Starling referred to S having previously paid the university with different account details, 
however that payment was several months before and S say they had no previous genuine 
invoices from the university  as the fraudsters accessed their emails and removed previous 
genuine emails.
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that S did enough checks, based on the information 
they had and in response to the COP no match  to satisfy themselves that they were paying 
the genuine university account. As Im satisfied that they had a reasonable basis to believe 
they were paying the university, Im not satisfied that Starling can rely on that exception as a 
reason not to refund S.
Having considered everything very carefully, Im not satisfied that Starling has evidenced 
that they can fairly apply an exception to reimbursement. Therefore, Starling should refund S 
in full for both payments. Starling should also pay 8% simple interest on that refund, to 
account for Ss loss of use of those funds. This should be calculated from the date Starling 
declined to refund S under the CRM Code, until the date of settlement.
Putting things right
To put things right Starling Bank Limited should:
Refund S in full for both payments.
Pay interest on that refund at 8% simple interest from the date they declined Ss 
claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and require 
them to compensate S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman