DRN-2843483
The complaint
Mr H complained that TM Advances Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H took out loans with TM Advances as follows:
Loan Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm - 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentDate loan 
settledTotal cost over full 
loan term shown on 
loan agreement 
1 29/02/16 £1,500 48 £142.50 01/04/16 £6,840
2 01/04/16 £3,000 60 £222.50 15/08/16 £13,350
3 03/07/17 £1,500 60 £136.25 03/01/18 £8,175
4 03/01/18 £3,000 60 £222.50 13/03/20 £13,350
Mr H brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with TM Advances.  
In summary, Mr H said that TM Advances wouldve seen it shouldnt have kept on lending to 
him if it had carried out proper credit checks. He told us that he struggled to pay various 
other creditors and hes been caused great stress and his finances have suffered badly. 
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator didnt think TM Advances had provided loan 1 unfairly but he felt that the 
information TM Advances gathered about Mr Hs financial situation, which included credit 
reports, shouldve prompted TM Advances to do more to check his financial situation  and 
had it done so, it shouldve found out that it was unlikely Mr H would be able to sustainably 
repay these loans. Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what TM Advances needed 
to do to put things right. 
TM Advances disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint and so it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here. Id like to reassure TM Advances that Ive looked at the complaint afresh 
 and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Like our 
adjudicator, I dont think TM Advances shouldve provided loans 2, 3 and 4. Ill explain why 
I say this.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information TM 
Advances relied on when it decided to lend to Mr H. 
Loan 1
As far as I can see, Mr H hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that TM Advances shouldnt have provided this 
loan  so Im not upholding this part of Mr Hs complaint.   
Loan 2
TM Advances asked Mr H about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - 
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TM Advances 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr H. 
Mr H declared his income as £2,100 and TM Advances phoned Mr Hs workplace to check 
his employment. Looking at the information TM Advances gathered from Mr H about his 
regular monthly expenditure and including his spending on other credit it saw on the credit 
checks it carried out, this appeared to leave Mr H with at least £500 each month.
So TM Advances felt that the monthly repayments of £222.50 he would be making on this 
loan were affordable for Mr H.
But I think that TM Advances could see on its credit check that there was a default balance 
of £11,302 dating back to 2012 which Mr H was still paying. TM Advances could also see 
that Mr H had defaulted on a credit card in 2011 and on another account in 2014. He had an 
outstanding balance on £1,737 on a credit card with a credit limit of £1,750. 
It was also apparent that he had a long established record of relying on what appeared to be 
expensive credit from finance houses. 
So, although the loan mightve appeared affordable to TM Advances, I think its fair to say all 
this information painted a picture that was inconsistent with what it might have expected to 
see for someone who had been in his current job for the previous 2 years, living with his 
parents and with the living expenses Mr H had declared. I think TM Advances should have 
been prompted to do more to check that it had a proper understanding of Mr Hs actual 
financial situation before providing this loan given that this credit history wasnt what it mightve reasonably expected to see for someone who appeared to have such a large 
amount of disposable income each month  especially, as our adjudicator mentioned, since 
taking this loan would mean Mr H was potentially signing up to make the monthly 
repayments over the next five years.  
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Mr H has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what 
TM Advances was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. To be clear, 
Im not suggesting the lender should have necessarily asked to see Mr Hs bank statements. 
TM Advances could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to 
carry out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the absence of other 
evidence, I think the bank statements Mr H has sent me give a reasonable insight into his 
finances at the time. 
And had TM Advances done proportionate checking I think it wouldve likely found out that 
Mr H was spending significant amounts on gambling transactions. And so I think 
TM Advances shouldve realised that there was a serious risk that Mr H wouldnt be able to 
repay this loan in a way that was sustainable  so it shouldnt have lent to him. For these 
reasons, I uphold the complaint about loan 2.
Loans 3 & 4
I think the gap of 11 months between Mr H paying loan 2 and applying for loan 3 was long 
enough for TM Advances to treat this application as a fresh start in terms of Mr Hs 
borrowing  and I've taken the same approach.
The information TM Advances gathered about Mr Hs income and expenditure suggested 
that he would likely have ample surplus income to help him cover any unforeseen costs 
after making the monthly repayments on this loan. But I think TM Advances credit checks 
showed some concerning information that didnt fit in with what Mr H had declared about 
his financial situation. Our adjudicator mentioned in his view the new credit that Mr H had 
taken out around the same time as he took out loan 2  two additional credit cards that 
now had a combined balance owing of more than £1,400. There also seems to be some 
contradictory information shown suggesting payment arrangements were in place which 
Mr H said wasnt accurate  I cant see that TM Advances followed this up. It didnt appear 
that Mr H had made any inroads into the defaulted account that TM Advances already 
knew about - and an additional defaulted account dating back to 2011 was identified on 
this credit check.    
As before, especially bearing in mind that Mr H was signing up to make the contractual 
repayments for the next 5 years, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate 
for TM Advances to have done more before lending to Mr H to understand how loan 3 
would impact on his financial situation  especially bearing in mind that hed said the loan 
was to pay for a car, so it was reasonable to think he would be adding to his overall 
indebtedness.
If TM Advances had sought a fuller picture of Mr Hs financial situation it wasnt likely to have 
been reassured that the loan would be sustainable for him. I think TM Advances shouldve 
realised (as I can see from his bank statements) that Mr H appeared to be spending 
significantly on multiple gambling transactions  as well as borrowing elsewhere.  
I think TM Advances wouldve likely realised, had it done a proportionate check, that in 
reality Mr H had become reliant on expensive forms of borrowing, his available credit had 
already been mostly used and he was dependent on obtaining new credit in order to cover his day to day costs and using it to fund extensive gambling. So TM Advances wouldve 
seen that further borrowing was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided 
loan 3 or any further lending.
And I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr H found himself unable to make the 
payments due on loan 4 - which I think is unsurprising. I say this because proportionate 
checking, had TM Advances done this, wouldve likely shown that Mr H was continuing to 
borrow expensive loans to fund his gambling and facing serious difficulties managing his 
financial situation. 
I dont think the fact that Mr H had made  his loan payments  on time and repaid loans 
early is enough to support TM Advances assertion that this shows the lending was 
affordable. 
So for all these reasons, Im upholding this complaint about loans 2, 3 and 4.  
Although there was a lot of interest payable, I think Mr H was aware he was taking high cost 
loans on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. I think its fair to say that the loan 
agreements set out reasonably clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he 
would have to pay if the loans ran to term. And early repayment led to interest being rebated 
on these loans. TM Advances told us that when Mr H had problems making his repayments 
to loan 4 on time it showed forbearance and allowed him extra time to pay. It told us it also 
discounted his settlement quotation and accepted Mr Hs payment offer to settle the loan 
early. 
Looked at overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that TM Advances acted towards 
Mr H in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress over and above the steps I've set out below. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest and charges on 
loans that shouldnt have been provided to him.
If TM Advances sold any outstanding debt it should liaise with the debt owner(s) to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
For loans 2, 3 and 4: 
A) refund everything Mr H paid over the principal loan amounts and repay this to 
Mr H with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. TM 
Advances should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he 
asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint about loans 2, 3 and 4 and direct TM Advances Limited to take the 
steps set out above to put things right for Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman