DRN-1944620
The complaint
Ms D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, her commercial lender, wont agree to 
let her change the nature of her business. Ms D says she needs to change the nature of her 
business due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic and that RBSs decision could 
mean her business now fails.
Ms D would like RBS to agree to her proposals as part of an amendment to her current 
facility terms and at the same interest margin.
What happened
Ms D took out a commercial loan facility in 2007 to purchase a property which she has run 
as a bed and breakfast. In early 2020, due to the impact of the covid-19 pandemic, Ms D 
experienced significantly lower trading volumes. Ms D says shes seriously concerned about 
the ongoing viability of her business. 
In April 2020 Ms D asked RBS if it would agree to her converting her property from a bed 
and breakfast into a house of multiple occupancy (HMO). RBS said it wouldnt agree to Ms D 
changing the property under its current facility agreement. And it said it wouldnt want to 
renegotiate terms as her new proposal didnt meet its lending criteria. It did agree to offer Ms 
D a break from the capital repayments due under the facility. 
Ms D was disappointed by RBSs decision and complained. RBS gave its final response to 
her complaint on 27 April 2020. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said Ms Ds request had 
been considered but it didnt meet RBSs lending appetite. It also thought the capital 
repayment holiday offered was in line with its coronavirus pandemic response for 
businesses.
Ms D disagreed. She thought RBS was treating her unfairly and that it was acting in breach 
of her lending agreement by unreasonably withholding its consent. Ms D also said shed 
been led to believe the amendment would be agreed and she was then told, very quickly, 
that it wasnt. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He considered that RBS had acted fairly, and he 
didnt think that it had led Ms D to believe it would agree to changes that it then went back 
on.
Ms D asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint again and reach a final decision on 
the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything that Ms D has said and the request that she made to 
RBS. Ive also looked at the terms of the loan facility agreement. And Ive also considered 
the timescales over which this complaint occurred and the interaction between Ms D and 
RBS.
Im conscious that this is a difficult time for many people, not least for Ms D who is running a 
business. I appreciate what Ms D is trying to achieve and that shes trying to adapt her 
business to make it survive challenging market conditions. The current pandemic is not 
something that either Ms D or RBS could have predicted when this borrowing was taken out 
in 2007.
Was it fair that RBS wouldnt agree to let Ms D change the nature of her business?
In 2007 when Ms D took out the loan with RBS it was to purchase a guesthouse. The 
property has continued to be used for this purpose until the global pandemic seriously 
affected demand for Ms Ds business.
Ms D acted in accordance with the terms of the facility when she asked RBS for its consent 
to change the nature of her business. In section 12 Clause b (iv) it says that Ms D shall not 
make any changes to the nature of the business conducted without the prior written consent 
of the Bank, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
Ms D recognised that she was changing the nature of her business and as such she 
requested its consent to do so. RBS has said it isnt comfortable to provide consent because 
of the risks involved in the HMO market, and in particular, Ms Ds lack of proven track record 
running such an operation. 
Ms D has said that RBS has unreasonably withheld its consent and as a result it has failed 
to comply with the terms of the loan agreement. She also suspects that RBS didnt give the 
consideration fair assessment as it declined the transaction so quickly.
From the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that when Ms D asked RBS for its support, it 
gave the matter fair consideration. I havent seen any evidence that shows RBS led Ms D to 
believe it would be agreed. I think it was made clear from the start that this would a proposal 
that would need approval.
Ive seen the proposal made to the credit department and the lending officials assessment 
of the request and the reasons the decision couldnt be approved. This document refers to 
RBSs real estate lending criteria. I dont think the matter was dismissed out of hand and I 
think RBS explored whether it could agree to the amendment under the existing facility 
agreement. When it couldnt agree to an amendment under the existing facility terms, it also 
considered whether it could agree to the transaction on new commercial terms but found it 
didnt have the appetite for a new transaction either.
RBS is able to determine its own lending appetite and to set its lending policy. RBS has 
explained that under its lending policy it has limited appetite for HMO loans. Its policy is only 
willing to lend to those who have a proven track record and experience in this sector. While 
Ms D is an experienced operator of a bed and breakfast, she doesnt have experience of 
successfully running an HMO. 
I have found that this policy has been followed in this instance. I can appreciate why Ms D 
would like an exception to be made in her case, especially against the backdrop of the 
coronavirus pandemic and the challenges that presents. But I dont think its unreasonable 
that RBS has declined to finance Ms Ds proposed HMO business in all the circumstances of 
this case.Ms D is able to explore her options with other lenders who may have varying degrees of 
appetite for this type of commercial transaction. In a recent update to this service Ms D said 
she hasnt yet done this. She may choose to proceed with this following this decision. 
I note that while RBS wouldnt agree to allow to agree to Ms D changing the nature of her 
business under the current financing terms, it did give Ms D a capital repayment holiday, and 
it shared links to a number of schemes such as Bounce Back loans and other initiatives set 
up to help businesses and consumers struggling in the current pandemic.  
I appreciate that RBS wouldnt agree to Ms Ds proposals, but Im glad to see that it shared 
information and took other steps to try to support Ms D. I appreciate Ms D doesnt consider 
this support is enough, but I think it was right that RBS shared the information it did about 
other schemes and forbearance that may be of help.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman