DRN-3633659
The complaint
Mrs S complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) will not allow her to cash in her annuity 
with it. 
What happened
Mrs S had a number of pension policies with ReAssure and in 2013 due to ill health she was 
able to take benefits early from some of these policies. Mrs S took tax-free cash and a small 
life-time annuity. 
More recently, Mrs S asked ReAssure if she could cash in her annuity. ReAssure said 
legislation did allow annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at its 
discretion. And whilst in the past it on occasion made offers in exceptional circumstances, it 
had now made a business decision to no longer do so. It also said that its costs were worked 
out when the annuity started based on paying it for Mrs Ss lifetime. If it were to make an 
offer now it would have to make a lot of assumptions and this could work against Mrs S. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this. Shes told us she is in extreme financial difficulty and has a 
serious health issue. Mrs S believes ReAssure should use its discretion and its not right that 
they have used it before but no longer will. She says it is only fair that ReAssure help her 
given her mental and emotional state as well as her financial situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes 
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12) 
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)   the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is met 
(see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)   the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)  the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and 
make payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes 
cashing-in of annuities)  was a permissive over-ride.  What this means is the schemes are 
allowed to make these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mrs Ss position doesnt have a right 
to commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it 
can, but only up to a limit of £10,000. 
Relevant considerations
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance?
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule). 
Principles for Businesses 
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of 
their business model.Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should 
act in the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the 
expense of other customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without 
consideration of other factors or wider implications. 
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could 
cause issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
this case
1. Does ReAssure have discretion to commute Mrs Ss annuity as requested? For 
example:
- Is the value under £10,000?
- Is Mrs S the legal owner of the annuity?
- Is ReAssure the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If ReAssure is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mrs Ss best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
- Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
- Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3.If ReAssure was free to grant Mrs Ss request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for ReAssure to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way? 
My findings in light of the above considerations
ReAssure hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Mrs S to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have 
discretion to commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mrs S to show that she would be worse off if 
she were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mrs Ss told 
us and the value of her annuity, which shes told us is paying her just under £200 a year, Im satisfied the annuity is so small it doesnt provide meaningful income. I accept her position 
that shed benefit more from a cash lump sum. I also note that Mrs S says that the annuity 
causes her issues with tax and benefits. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum 
value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would likely be 
in Mrs Ss personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether ReAssure fairly took into account Mrs Ss 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow her to cash-in her annuity.
ReAssure has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mrs S or to 
any of its customers. Essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed 
in, so it would be difficult to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and 
inconvenience  and possibly to the detriment of other customers. It made a number of 
points about this, for example: 
- It cannot consider cases (and offer cash in values) in isolation without considering all 
its qualifying customers. It has a duty to be fair to all its customers.
- Without appropriate processes and checks, it could result in poor customer outcomes 
and cause more harm than good. 
- To choose specific customers to make offers also has complications. Deciding who 
should receive an offer and who shouldnt, isnt possible without significant 
groundwork to determine what is fair (and the wider implications of this need to be 
considered on its customers and its business)
- Any decision made on the above, could cause more inconsistency as its difficult to 
determine who would and who wouldnt benefit from cashing in offers.
- There are significant financial implications on it, in offering this widely to customers.
- Its annuities are backed by other financial arrangements and backed by long-term 
and illiquid assets, so cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think ReAssures points here are fair ones.  I dont 
think ReAssure simply disregarded Mrs Ss interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business 
model more widely. 
One consequence for example, if it were to offer this to all its customers, is those who it 
would benefit  such as those with shortened life expectancy would likely take up the offer. 
And those in good health are less likely to do so. Yet all the annuities were valued and sold 
on the customers circumstances at the time  and the funds held to pay-out these annuities 
were based on all of the probable costs of providing the annuity then  and didnt include the 
potential costs of offering a lump sum at a later date. 
Im really sorry to hear the circumstances Mrs S has had to endure over the years, and that 
she is struggling with her health and financially. It strikes me ReAssure could avoid many of 
the challenges it has raised if it were to treat Mrs Ss case as exceptional. The cost and 
impact in this one case would be small for a business the size of ReAssure. But sadly there 
will be many other customers with small annuities that also have financial and health issues. 
And so I dont think given what Ive set out above, it is practical for ReAssure to treat Mrs S 
as an exception  without then also taking into account all the other exceptions and 
situations of its other customers. And if it were to do so, the issues set out above would 
come into play.I appreciate it is frustrating and upsetting for Mrs S that previously ReAssure (and other 
businesses) had allowed exceptions. But its stance now is in line with most of the other 
pension providers. It seems at the start of cashing in annuities becoming an issue, whilst 
dealing with enquiries providers did make exceptions but after looking into the issue they 
have now amended their approach. Whilst I can see this is frustrating for Mrs S, I dont think 
it means ReAssure should have to make exceptions each time someone complains now and 
in the future.
Ive kept in mind that Mrs S says she would be better off with a cash lump sum. Ive 
balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mrs S had a right to. And 
while ReAssure was free to allow her request, Im satisfied it did have other legitimate 
interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the impact on 
ReAssures existing systems and processes, the interests of its customers more widely and 
the potential cost. 
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mrs Ss 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs S in line with other 
customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in 
the future ReAssure changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its 
possible Mrs S may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say ReAssure must 
change its position at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I wont be 
upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman