DRN-2414226
The complaint
Miss S complaint is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very (SDFC) took 
several months to apply refunds to her account for two televisions that she returned. She 
says this resulted in her incurring interest on the items and late payment fees. She also says 
the issue affected her credit file.
Miss S wants the interest and fees refunded and her credit file amended. She says the issue 
has caused her distress and inconvenience and thinks she should be compensated for this. 
What happened
Miss S has a credit account with SDFC. She ordered a television on 13 February 2020 but 
returned this due to it being faulty. She ordered another television but again this needed to 
be returned. Miss S then ordered a third television.
Miss S says that her account wasnt properly updated and the charges for the two faulty 
televisions remained on her account. She says the issue was ongoing for several months 
and while the refunds were then applied she incurred interest and charges on her account 
along with late payment markers on her credit file. 
Miss S says the issue caused her distress and inconvenience as she was being chased for 
payments while the issue was outstanding and had to make calls to try to resolve the issue. 
SDFC issued a final response letter dated 29 May 2020. It explained how refunds were 
applied for returned items and apologised that both refunds werent applied to Miss S 
account and said this would be corrected. It didnt accept that the service it provided when 
Miss S called in February 2020 wasnt as it should have been. It noted that Miss S had said 
she wouldnt be paying while the account was in dispute but explained that the minimum 
payment was required and that if this wasnt made her credit file could be affected and 
charges applied. 
In June 2020, Miss S says she called SDFC and was told that all interest and charges would 
be removed, and her credit file amended.
Our investigator said that Miss S had been refunded the interest charged to her account for 
the two returned televisions in July 2020. They noted that late payment charges and late 
payment markers had been applied but said that Miss S had an outstanding balance on her 
account (before buying the televisions) and as she hadnt paid her contractual amounts from 
March 2020 they couldnt say the late payment fees had been applied unfairly or that the late 
payment markers should be removed from Miss S credit file.
Our investigator did find that Miss S had been caused distress and inconvenience due to 
how the refunds for the returned items had been managed and the incorrect information she 
was given on the call in June 2020. Because of this they recommended that she be paid 
£175 for the upset she had been caused.
SDFC said that Miss S account statements were affected for two months and then 
amended. It said that once it was made aware of the issue it acted in a timely way. It said 
Miss S had been refunded the interest that was charged on the televisions. It noted that the 
call in June 2020 happened after it had issued its final response and that Miss S had been 
made aware in its final response letter that not making her payments would affect her credit 
file. SDFC said that Miss S called on 16 June and said her complaint was ongoing. She was 
given incorrect information, and this was discovered on 17 June 2020 and Miss S was told 
this on 18 June. It initially offered to pay Miss S £100, which it then increased to £175 
because of the distress and inconvenience Miss S had been caused.
Miss S didnt accept SDFCs offer. She said she wanted her balance returned to the amount 
outstanding before the issues with the televisions and her credit file amended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S entered into a credit agreement with SDFC in December 2017. This set out the terms 
of the agreement including the APR of 54.9% (and details of other payment plans). It set out 
the consequences of not making at least the minimum monthly payment. 
Miss S account had a balance of £1,717.33 at the start of February 2020. The statement 
dated 29 February shows Miss S made the minimum payment on her account on 6 
February. She then ordered two televisions each costing £449 (one on 13 February and one 
on the 17 February). These both had to be returned. The delivery charge of £6.99 was 
charged and then credited in this statement. 
I understand the televisions were collected on 28 February. Given Miss S statement was 
dated 29 February the refunds for the televisions didnt appear on this statement, but 
advance credits were applied for both televisions on her next statement (refunds dated 29 
February). I find this reasonable. Miss S also bought another television on 29 February 
2020. Miss S 29 February statement set out the payment due and given she had an 
outstanding balance (excluding the televisions) and had been told the refunds for the 
televisions would be processed I think it reasonable that Miss S would have paid this.
On the March statement (statement 31) as well as the advance credits being applied there 
was then an amount of £449 applied on 10 March which was then reversed the same day. 
So, while I accept the statement is confusing, I find that the refunds for the televisions had 
been applied and so the balance on this statement was correct. Miss S didnt pay the 
minimum amount set out in statement 30 and so her account went into arrears and a missed 
payment fee was applied. As I set out above I thought it would have been reasonable for 
Miss S to have made the minimum payment set out on statement 30, I do not find I can say 
that SDFC was wrong to apply the missed payment fee. This was applied in line with the 
account terms and conditions.
The March statement (statement 31) set out the minimum payment due and the arrears on 
the account. As the refunds for the television had been applied to the account I do not find 
that this issue was a reason for Miss S not to make the required payment. She had also 
bought another television and so it is reasonable that she would have expected to make 
payments towards this. However, Miss S didnt make the minimum payment set out in 
statement 31 and this was the second month that no payment had been made. A debt 
collection fee was applied on the April statement (statement 32). I do not find I can say 
SDFC did anything wrong by applying this charge.The April statement (statement 32) shows that the cost of the television was reapplied to 
Miss S account on 6 April. This was a mistake as Miss S had returned the item. This meant 
that Miss S outstanding balance was £449 higher than it should have been. I note Miss S 
comment about the size of the minimum payments but while I note this additional charge will 
have had an impact, most of the minimum payment was due to the correct balance on her 
account and the arrears were due to her not making payments for two months. Therefore, I 
do not find it reasonable that Miss S made no payment towards her account at this stage. 
Had she been struggling to make the minimum payment this could have been discussed with 
SDFC.
The additional charge remained on Miss S account for the following statement (statement 
33). Again, the minimum payment was set out and while I appreciate Miss S was disputing 
the additional charge, I do not find that this means she wasnt required to make any payment 
towards her outstanding balance for the other items. Miss S didnt make a payment and her 
arrears increased and a further charge was applied.
On 29 May 2020, SDFC issued its final response to Miss S and the additional £449 charge 
was removed from her account on that day. This is shown in the June statement (statement 
34). This resolved the issue regarding the amount charged for the returned televisions. 
However, as the televisions had been on Miss S account interest had been charged. It is 
right that this needed to be refunded and this happened in July 2020.
Overall, I find that SDFC acted reasonably by applying the advance credits to Miss S 
account and refunding the delivery charge when the two televisions were returned. Due to 
the time taken to process this the credit appeared on the statement after the one on which 
the purchases were recorded. A mistake was made when a charge of £449 was reapplied to 
Miss S account on 6 April. This was reversed on 29 May and as the interest charged for the 
televisions was refunded in July 2020 I find this puts Miss S back in the position she would 
have been had the mistake not been made.
I appreciate the comments Miss S has made about her minimum payment and the charges 
but she hadnt made a payment since February 2020 and as she had an outstanding amount 
(before the televisions were bought) and acquired another television on 29 February I find it 
reasonable that she would have continued to make payments towards her account. As no 
payments were made I do not find I can say SDFC did anything wrong by applying charges 
for missed payments.
I understand missed payment markers were applied to Miss S credit file. SDFC is required 
to provide accurate reports to the credit reference agencies and as Miss S hadnt made 
payments towards her account for several months I do not find I can say it was wrong to 
report this. The terms of the credit agreement and the monthly statements set out what can 
happen if the minimum monthly payments arent made. This was also confirmed in SDFCs 
final response letter dated 29 May 2020.
Miss S contacted SDFC in June 2020. I have listened to the call and she was told that the 
charges and interest would be refunded, and her credit file amended. I understand that the 
correct information was given to Miss S a few days later. So, while I accept that Miss S was 
given incorrect information I do not find that this means those actions are required to be 
taken. Miss S had information in the final response letter about the impact of not making 
payments and I understand the incorrect advice was corrected. I do however find this added 
to the distress and inconvenience Miss S had been caused.
SDFC has offered to pay Miss S £175 for the distress and inconvenience. This is in line with 
the recommendations in our investigators view. Having considered all the evidence 
provided, including the upset caused by the charge for the television being reapplied to Miss S account and the incorrect information the call I find this a fair resolution to his 
complaint.
Putting things right
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should pay Miss S £175, as it has offered, for the 
distress and inconvenient she was caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should take the action set out 
above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman