DRN-2150771
The complaint
Mr M complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limiteds 
(NFU) handling of his claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI). He says he wasnt initially 
offered a panel solicitor and is unhappy that NFU wont meet the full hourly rate of his 
chosen solicitor.
Where I refer to NFU, this includes their agents. A representative has helped Mr M bring this 
complaint, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all submissions as having come from Mr M 
himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M (who is represented by his solicitor) has LEI cover with NFU. In 2019 he made a claim 
on the policy in relation to a potential prosecution for a speeding offence. He says he wasnt 
offered a panel solicitor and he instructed his own solicitor, G.
G liaised with NFU about the terms of appointment for non-panel solicitors. Ultimately NFU 
said they were prepared to pay £217 per hour and no more. G are a London based firm and 
say that their usual hourly rate is in excess of this amount. NFU say that theyve paid a rate 
applicable to the area in which Mr M lives and that they wont pay more. 
There were also some delays in NFUs responses to G when discussing the hourly rate. 
Mr M complained to NFU who upheld his complaint in part. They agreed there had been 
some avoidable delays and offered £100 compensation for the impact of this. But they 
maintained their position in relation to the hourly rate they were prepared to pay. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think NFU needed 
to do more. She acknowledged Gs experience and expertise but didnt think that NFU had 
restricted Mr Ms freedom to choose a solicitor or that the compensation theyd offered for 
delays was unfair. As agreement couldnt be found the complaint was been passed to me for 
a decision.
In August 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Mr M says he should have been offered a panel solicitor and that he wasnt. On 22 January 
2019 there was a call between Mr M and NFU. The note made by the call handler at the time 
recorded that they tried to discuss panel solicitors, but Mr M wanted his own solicitor (G). 
It has also been explained that Mr M had a previous relationship with G who had 
represented him or his family members for similar matters previously. I find this to be 
persuasive evidence as to Mr Ms thoughts at the time. I think Mr M was intent on using Gs 
services to defend himself  particularly given their existing relationship. 
Im satisfied that efforts were made to discuss a panel solicitor with Mr M on the basis of the 
above call note. But even if they hadnt, I dont think it would have made a difference as I 
think Mr M always would have instructed G to represent him. 
Mr M has since said that if hed been provided with a meaningful alternative by NFU, he 
would have considered this at the time. But he was never given details of the qualifications 
and experience of any available solicitor and so he was denied the ability to make an 
informed choice. Ive considered this, but I still think it is more likely than not that Mr M would 
have chosen G to represent him for the reasons given above. 
Insurers are entitled to limit the amount they will pay a non-panel solicitor provided that doing 
so doesnt limit the policyholders ability to choose their own solicitor to such an extent that it 
makes it meaningless. 
So, the only question left to consider is whether NFU limiting the hourly rate they will pay to 
£217 is fair and reasonable or whether it unfairly restricted his freedom to choose his own 
solicitor. 
Mr Ms policy says: We will pay a representative, on the insured persons behalf, costs and 
expenses incurred following an insured incident Costs and Expenses are specifically 
defined in the policy as: All reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the 
representative and agreed by [NFU] in accordance with the [NFU] standard terms of 
appointment. Within the standard terms of appointment it says: For criminal cases you will 
be paid legal aid rates and reasonable, necessary and proportionate expenses. 
Terms like this are common to this type of insurance and I dont think they are inherently 
unfair. NFU have clearly set out what they will be prepared to pay with regard to costs for a 
case like this. 
The offer of £217 per hour is in excess of what NFU would have paid to a panel firm and is 
more than legal aid rates which is what the terms of appointment say they will pay. Taking all 
of this into consideration, Im not persuaded there is a reasonable basis upon which I can 
ask NFU to pay more. 
Im also satisfied that NFU didnt unfairly restrict Mr Ms freedom to choose his own solicitor. 
In this case I can understand Mr Ms reasons for having a strong preference to use G. But 
NFU have a large panel of firms and say they would have been able to offer a variety of 
solicitors who would have been able to deal with this type of case. Mr Ms case relates to a 
prosecution for a speeding offence and NFU have said they have firms on their panel who 
specialise in legal defence which would include motor prosecution cases. 
G have put forward a number of arguments as to why they believe the case to be particularly 
complex and so required their involvement. Ive reviewed these. I appreciate G may well be 
experts in this field and I note the points they were intending to raise as a defence of Mr Ms 
prosecution. But Im not persuaded those arguments arent ones that a panel firm with a 
team specialising in motor legal cases wouldnt also have been able to make. They dont 
persuade me that the case is so complex or unusual that only a non-panel firm could have 
dealt with it. 
As Ive already covered, Im satisfied NFU informed Mr M of the option of a panel solicitor. 
And I dont think the amount theyve said theyll pay G has restricted his freedom of choice to 
the point that it was meaningless.
Ive thought carefully about the delays that NFU themselves have acknowledged that they 
are responsible for. I accept that Mr Ms legal case was progressing and he was sensibly taking steps to prepare his defence. But for much the same reasons Ive already explained, I 
dont think the delays caused Mr M to do anything differently. There isnt evidence to suggest 
that G stopped their work pending resolution of the issues with NFU. And on balance, even if 
the delays hadnt have happened, I think we would have ended in the same place. That 
being that G would have represented Mr M and there would have been a dispute about the 
hourly rate that should be paid. 
And whilst I dont think the delays impacted on Mr Ms legal case, I can understand why 
some frustration would have been caused and I think the £100 compensation already offered 
is fair in this regard. If this hasnt already been paid and Mr M would like to accept, he should 
contact NFU to arrange this.
NFU responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Mr Ms representative didnt 
provide any further comments or evidence for my consideration. Now both parties have had 
the opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman