DRN-3158223
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his pet insurance policy with Pinnacle 
Insurance Plc.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr M made a claim under the policy as his cat had a blocked urethra, which 
prevented it from urinating and so caused distension of the bladder. 
Pinnacle refused the claim, as it said it was linked to a previous episode of the same issue, 
which the cat had been treated for within the first 14 days of the policy. The policy started on 
31 March 2020 and the cat was treated a few days later for a blocked urethra, caused by a 
build-up of crystals (crystalluria). Pinnacle says this is an ongoing recurring condition and is 
excluded from cover because it first arose within the first 14 days of the policy. It, however,  
offered Mr M £30 compensation for not passing the complaint to the appropriate department 
initially. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld, as she was satisfied Pinnacle had established the episodes were linked, based 
on the vets evidence that the two incidents of blocked bladder were caused by a condition 
called crystalluria.
Mr M does not accept the investigators assessment. He has made a number of points in his 
initial complaint and in response to the investigator. I have summarised his submissions 
below: 
the issue in April 2020 was a bladder condition that resolved and the cat needed no 
further treatment until March 2021. The condition did not recur and is not linked to the 
more recent claim. 
This is strengthened by Pinnacles statement that once a pet suffers with a condition 
it is likely to continue suffering with it  the cat would not have survived if the 
condition had continued since April 2020.
The policy covers £3,000 per condition, per year and the terms have not been 
applied fairly. 
The policy documentation is unclear: he knew he could not claim for the first incident 
in April 2020 but it was not clear that it will not cover repeat issues.
It is totally misleading to put the information about recurring conditions on a separate 
page from the page which states what and what not you are covered for; which is the 
page most people turn to. The two meanings should be put together so they are clear 
and transparent, if not, it is easy to miss. 
As the investigator has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy excludes:
We will not pay for 
the cost of any treatment for any illness which occurs or shows symptoms within 14 days of 
the start date.
An illness is defined as meaning: 
physical disease, sickness, abnormality, infection or failure which is not caused by an 
accidental injury This includes any symptoms, whether or not diagnosed. 
The policy also says that when applying an exclusion, it will consider recurring conditions 
as one condition. It defines a recurring condition as: any previous illness or any 
symptoms relating to that illness  that may come back or that your pet is prone to, no 
matter how many times this comes back or how many areas of the body are affected.
These terms are not unusual or unfair in my opinion. Most pet insurance policies have  
similar exclusions, for claims made soon after the policy begins, as well as for conditions that 
exist before the start of the policy; and treat recurring conditions in the same way. 
 
The above term means it is not just the date of diagnosis that is relevant but the date that the 
cat first displayed symptoms of any illness.
Mr M says this made clear he could not claim for the treatment in April 2020 but the policy 
terms above are not clear enough that any claims made for the same illness outside of the 
first 14 days of the policy would also not be covered. In particular, he says the reference to 
recurring conditions is not presented in the logical position in the policy document, which 
means it is easy to overlook. I can see some force in his argument, given there is no other 
reference to recurring conditions in the policy. However, I think the policy is sufficiently clear 
that no claims for any treatment linked to a condition that first arises in the first 14 days of 
the policy will be paid. It is this exclusion that is being relied on by Pinnacle and this is 
sufficiently clear in my opinion. 
Mr Ms cat showed symptoms of a condition which causes crystals to form in the bladder 
(eventually building up until they had blocked the urethra) in April 2020. It is not disputed that 
the cat was then symptom free after treatment in 2020 until March 2021 when it presented 
with the same issue.
Pinnacle has not said the cat suffered the condition continuously since April 2020 but that it 
is an underlying condition, which the cat is prone to, which is likely to recur. It doesnt have 
to have suffered continuously with any condition, for it to be excluded under this policy term. 
Mr Ms vet, in a letter September 2021, confirmed the blockage in April 2020 and the one in 
March 2021 were both due to an accumulation of struvate crystals. The vet has not said they 
are unrelated, or two random unconnected incidents. And I note in the notes of attendance in 
March 2021 Mr Ms vet warned of the chance of further episodes. Pinnacle has also 
provided an independent vets report which says that if this condition occurs, it is rare to only 
have one episode. 
Having considered the evidence provided, I think Pinnacle has done enough to establish this 
is a condition, which started within the first 14 days of the policy. While there were two 
separate episodes, with a period of time apparently symptom free between them, it does not mean that the exclusion doesnt fairly apply, as it is the same condition that recurred. Given 
this any terms about condition claim limits are not applicable and so I do not agree with Mr 
Ms argument that there should have been cover within the next policy year. Therefore I am 
satisfied, Pinnacle is entitled to rely on the policy exclusion to refuse the claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman