DRN-3975164
The complaint
Mr T complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs actions when closing his account.
What happened
Mr T held an account with Lloyds. In May 2021, they froze the account following a fraud 
report. Mr T supplied relevant information to Lloyds, and they removed the block.
In July 2021, Lloyds received another report and blocked the accounts again. They also 
informed Mr T theyd be closing his account. At the time, Mr T held around £190,000 in his 
account, and Lloyds removed around £10,000 with the reference indemnity recovery as part 
of the fraud reports theyd received. Lloyds also added Mr Ts details to the Credit Industry 
Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) database.
In September 2021, Lloyds closed Mr Ts account and asked him to attend branch to 
withdraw the remaining money held. However, Mr T wasnt able to attend branch as he was 
living overseas.
Lloyds reviewed things again. They found they could have done more to support Mr T when 
the first fraudulent reports were received in May 2021  and they think if they had done so, 
they could have avoided the further fraudulent reports being received in July 2021. They 
agreed to pay back all of the money to Mr T  including the £10,000 or so they removed for 
the indemnities; and removed the CIFAS loading. Lloyds transferred Mr T some money on 
2 December 2021 and the remaining money on 6 December 2021.
Mr T said this whole situation caused him significant distress, time, and effort through trying 
to sort out the issue and resulted in him losing out on work contracts, investments, and 
property purchases.
Lloyds upheld Mr Ts complaint. To try and resolve things, they paid the following:
8% simple interest on the funds which were held from 2 July 2021 up to 2 and 
6 December 2021;
£750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused;
£200 to cover the call costs incurred.
Mr T remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. He estimated his losses 
to be around £30,000.
In the meantime, Lloyds agreed to increase the call cost payment from £200 to £400 so our 
investigator made Mr T aware, but he remained unhappy.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and thought Lloyds had to do more to put things 
right. He recognised the distress the overall situation had caused Mr T but explained to him 
that £30,000 compensation wasnt appropriate in the circumstances. Mr T had supplied 
evidence to show how he came to the £30,000 figure, but our investigator didnt agree it was 
sufficient. Our investigator thought Lloydss offer of paying 8% simple interest and £400 for 
the call costs was reasonable. But thought the compensation amount should be increased to 
£1,000.
Mr T didnt agree. He maintained that £30,000 was to cover the direct losses caused to him; 
and the £1,000 total compensation wasnt enough.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me.
I sent a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Ive noted that Mr T has made a number of quite detailed submissions. Ive considered all of 
these, but I dont believe its necessary to address each and every point that Mr T has made 
in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that with 
minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I 
do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr T and Lloyds have said before 
reaching my decision.
I should also add that my decision relates to the events from July 2021 onwards  therefore, 
Im not considering the initial block in May 2021.
Were Lloyds entitled to review, block, and close Mr Ts account?
Lloyds are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds were acting in line with 
these obligations when reviewing, blocking, and subsequently closing Mr Ts account.
Lloyds are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and 
its often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Mr Ts case, Lloyds received 
fraudulent reports in July 2021, so Im pleased to see they took the action to block any 
further activity on the account while they investigated things. Im satisfied based on the 
evidence Ive seen that Lloyds were entitled to close Mr Ts account and did so by complying 
with the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate Mr T believes these reports 
consisted of false allegations  but that doesnt mean Lloyds werent entitled to take the 
action they did. It is necessary for banks to protect their customers money and so, I think in 
the circumstances at the time, their actions were appropriate.
Therefore, I cant reasonably say Lloyds did anything wrong when deciding to review, block 
or close Mr Ts account.
Withholding the money
I appreciate Mr T was without his money for around five months in total. I recognise how 
frustrating it must have been for Mr T to be unable to use his account. And I appreciate this 
would have put him in a financially challenging position, especially as he says he wasnt able 
to commit to work contracts and lost out on property purchases. But a bank cant always 
guarantee that funds in an account will be readily available as they have broader regulatory 
obligations with which they have to comply.
That being said, I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me that Lloyds should have 
blocked the money in the account which wasnt subject to the fraud reports. And since 
Lloyds have also confirmed they could have avoided the fraudulent reports being received, 
its reasonable to suggest the money shouldnt have been blocked at all. I also consider Mr T 
could have got his money back sooner than he did and find Lloyds likely caused 
unreasonable delays.Usually, in cases where a consumer has been unfairly refused access to their money, we 
recognise this loss through suggesting 8% simple interest is paid on the time and amount of 
money held. We use 8% simple interest because its the current statutory interest rate on 
judgement debts and therefore we feel is the most reasonable way to recognise the loss of 
use. Im pleased to see Lloyds have acted on this by paying Mr T 8% on the total funds held, 
from the time they were initially blocked in July 2021 up to when Mr T received them back in 
December 2021. Because of this, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anymore in this regard as I 
feel Lloyds have fairly recognised the loss of use in the same way our service would 
suggest.
Financial and non-financial loss
Mr T has provided documentation to support the financial losses he has faced as a result of 
this issue. Firstly, Mr T has been able to provide persuasive evidence to show the calls he 
had to make as a result of this issue likely cost in the region of £400. I recognise Lloyds 
previously paid £200 and agreed to pay £400 in light of this new evidence. I agree this is 
sufficient based on the evidence I have seen.
Mr T has also said he wasnt able to commit to work contracts, or purchase properties. While 
Ive carefully considered what Mr T has provided, I dont consider it shows that Lloyds 
actions alone prevented Mr T from partaking in these activities. I say that because the work 
contract issue for example suggests that Mr T was dealing with personal issues at the time. 
While Ive no doubt this was linked to the sudden block and closure of his Lloyds account, 
the evidence Mr T has sent doesnt include any dates which coincide with the issue and it 
doesnt necessarily explain why Mr T wasnt able to continue with his work  especially as he 
had access to another account. I also havent seen enough to show Mr T was engaged in a 
potential property purchase, or investment fund, which was then withdrawn due to not having 
access to these particular funds on these dates. I know how strongly Mr T feels about this, 
but I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive no doubt this overall situation caused a significant amount of distress and inconvenience 
to Mr T. Ive carefully thought about the right amount of compensation to put things right, and 
while I recognise Lloyds have already paid £750, I consider a total compensation amount of 
£1,500 to be more appropriate. Ive reached this amount due to the stress of having to 
continuously chase Lloyds and the time it took for Mr T to get his money back. I havent seen 
that the CIFAS marker being applied had a large impact on Mr T, but I do consider this still 
would have been a worry. Ive also thought about the point that Lloyds told Mr T to withdraw 
his money in branch  but Mr T wasnt able to as he was residing overseas at the time.
Having said that, I am pleased Mr T was able to mitigate his losses to some extent by having 
access to another account.
Placing a value on distress and inconvenience is not an exact science. And our awards are 
not designed to punish businesses for any mistakes theyve made. But in this case, I think 
total of £1,500 seems fair compensation. I recognise Mr T will be disappointed by this 
amount as he wants significantly more, but I hope Ive been able to explain above why I cant 
fairly award the sum Mr T is requesting. The Ombudsman is an informal dispute resolution 
organisation. My role within that is to consider Mr Ts complaint and decide what I think is a 
fair resolution to put Mr T back into the position he would have been in had Lloyds not made 
the mistakes they did. And this is what I have done here.
Mr T responded and didnt have any further comments to add. Lloyds responded and 
accepted the provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party raised further arguments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings above. 
In summary, Im satisfied Lloyds were entitled to review, block, and close Mr Ts account. 
And while I recognise there were delays in withholding the money, I consider Lloyds have 
already recognised the loss of use by paying Mr T 8% simple interest on the total funds held 
from July 2021 to December 2021. However, I do think Lloyds should pay further 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, and a higher amount to reflect the 
call costs Mr T incurred.
Putting things right
Lloyds have agreed to pay £200 further to the call costs Mr T incurred. I consider a total 
amount of £1,500 compensation to be a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr T in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, Lloyds Bank PLC should do the following:
Pay Mr T an extra £200, in addition to the £200 already paid to cover the call costs, 
to bring the total amount to £400.
Pay Mr T an additional £750 compensation, in addition to the £750 already paid, to 
bring the total compensation amount to £1,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman