DRN-3239847
The complaint
Mr S complains about the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) when his hire agreement ended. 
What happened
In March 2017, Mr S entered into a 36 month hire agreement for a new car with MBFS. He 
paid an initial rental of £1,435 and was required to pay £239 per month. 
In April 2020 the agreement came to an end but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
collection of the car was delayed. As it waited to be collected, MBFS said they could take 
over the cars insurance if it could be stored on a driveway or garage. They also said they 
would declare the car SORN (statutory off the road notification), it shouldnt be used and no 
further rentals would be charged. Mr S agreed to the same.
As the pandemic restrictions had eased, at the start of August 2020 MBFS collection agents 
tried to contact Mr S on several occasions by telephone, letter and email to arrange 
collection. As they were unable to speak to him, they attended his address on 20 August 
2020 and collected the car. Mr S said as the collection wasnt pre-arranged he didnt have 
the opportunity to make sure all the documentation and parts were present like the parcel 
shelf, and spare key. According to Mr S, the collection agent told him he could return them 
afterwards by contacting MBFS directly. 
In line with MBFS returns process, the car was later inspected on 26 August 2020. Damage 
was found to the car and a number of items were missing. MBFS sent Mr S an invoice and 
said he had to pay £2,625 for end of contract charges. That was £1,555 for damages and 
£1,070 for extra days hire. Mr S complained, he said as the collection wasnt pre-arranged 
he didnt have time to gather the missing items. He also said he was told by the agent that 
he could return them to MBFS without incurring a charge but he wasnt provided an address 
to do so. Mr S complained.
MBFS said they had fairly applied the charges for the missing items and damages to the car 
and they outlined the multiple attempts to call Mr S. As the car wasnt returned until August 
2020, they said they were entitled to apply the extra days hire charge.
 
Unhappy with their response, Mr S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They were satisfied Mr S stopped using the car when 
the agreement ended and the main reason for the delay in collecting the car was due to the 
pandemic. They said MBFS should remove the charge for the extra days hire. In relation to 
the charges for the damage and missing items, they believed it was fair MBFS charged for 
these. They said although the collection was unexpected it was reasonable for Mr S to have 
these documents and parts to hand given the agreement had ended and the car was due to 
be collected.
MBFS agreed to remove the extra days hire charge. Mr S was pleased by this and accepted 
he had to pay for the damages but he remained unhappy for the charges for the missing 
parts. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the findings of the investigator and for the same reasons. I 
believe the complaint should be upheld in part. 
Mr S entered in a regulated consumer hire agreement with MBFS so Im satisfied our service 
can look into it. 
Extra days hire
In the investigators opinion, she has explained the reasons why she doesnt believe MBFS 
acted fairly by charging for extra days hire. Having reviewed the file, I agree with what shes 
said so I wont repeat them again here. I note MBFS has already agreed to remove this 
charge which Mr S is happy with so I dont find it necessary to comment any further on this. 
Missing documents and parts
MBFS said Mr S is required to pay for a number of missing items and damages to the car, 
which total £1,555. They are as follows:
1 Parcel shelf Missing £279
2 Literature pack Missing £115
3 Spare key Missing £260
4 Alloy wheel key Missing £78
5 Left front alloy Damaged £85
6 Left front wheel Damaged £94 
7 Right door speaker grill Broken £303
8 Right rear door pad Damaged £289
9 Right door aperture seal Damaged £49.80
Mr S accepts he must pay for the damages (numbers 5 to 9). However he disputes the 
charges for the missing parcel shelf, literature pack alloy wheel key and spare key 
(numbered 1 to 4) so I will only focus on these items. 
The agreement said at the end of the term the car must be returned in accordance to MBFS 
return standards and if it isnt, they can charge for it. I can see Mr S signed this agreement 
so Im satisfied he was aware of the same. 
In February 2020, prior to the agreement coming to an end in April 2020, MBFS sent 
communication to Mr S outlining the return process and provided a copy of their returns 
standards. Ive reviewed these documents and having done so Im satisfied MBFS made it 
clear in advance what was expected in terms of the condition of the car and the parts to be 
returned. These return standards specifically said the parcel self, all keys and the literature 
pack must be returned. However both the collection and inspection reports confirmed these 
items were missing at collection.Mr S said as the collection agents turned up unannounced early in the morning, he didnt 
have the time nor opportunity to get these missing parts so its unfair hes charged for it. 
Having listened to the voicemails left from MBFS agents to Mr S trying to arrange collection 
and the additional written correspondence, Im satisfied they did as much as they could to 
contact him. As they were unable to speak to him and he hadnt contacted them back, I find 
it was reasonable for them to attend his address in the hope he would be present and collect 
the car.
While I accept the collection on 20 August 2020 was unarranged and its clear Mr S wasnt 
aware they were due to come, I cant say the visit was unexpected. I say this because the 
agreement had come to an end in April 2020, which was four months prior and the agents 
had attempted to contact him on numerous occasions to arrange collection. So it was clear 
the car needed to be collected. 
Equally, it was agreed in April 2020 that Mr S would stop using the car, it would be declared  
SORN and await collection. Therefore at that point I think it wouldve been reasonable to 
expect the car would be left in a suitable condition, ready to be collected especially as it 
wasnt being used. Or at the very least, for the necessary parts to be easily accessible so 
they could be provided when the car was eventually collected. 
Ive considered Mr S comments that he did have the items but he wasnt able to find them at 
the time of the collection. He also said he was told by the agent that he could return them 
directly to MBFS and not be charged. However there is insufficient evidence to say Mr S 
contacted MBFS to discuss the same so I cant say they acted unfairly. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe MBFS acted fairly when applying the charge 
for the extra days hire so this should be removed. However I do find they are entitled to 
charge for the damage and missing parts. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr S complaint. To put things 
right, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should remove the charge for extra 
days hire.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman