DRN-4427877
The complaint
Mr S has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund 
transactions he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In late 2021, Mr S opened a current account with NatWest. He deposited around £3,000, 
which was then sent abroad in two international payments a few days later. Mr S continued 
to use the account.
In late 2022, Mr S reported the international payments as fraud. He said he hadnt noticed 
them before because he often dealt in large amounts and could lose track.
NatWest held Mr S liable for the payments in dispute, on the basis that theyd been made 
using Mr Ss security credentials, and he checked his online banking afterwards many times 
and wouldve seen the payments, but he didnt report them at the time.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr S and NatWest a provisional decision on 10 October 2023, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Broadly speaking, NatWest can hold Mr S liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised them. To clarify, no one here is required to prove what 
happened beyond reasonable doubt  this is not a criminal case. Were just looking at whats 
most likely.
Because the payments were not reported until a little over a year after they happened, the 
available evidence is more limited. After all, NatWest are required to dispose of data rather 
than hold onto it for too long.
As such, while I do appreciate why Mr S would like to see CCTV footage, such footage is 
only kept for about a month as standard, so it wouldve been long gone by the time he 
reported the matter. And even if CCTV footage were still available, it wouldve only shown 
what the person making the transactions looked like. It would not have shown whether they 
had Mr Ss permission or not, which is the key consideration.
Similarly, I understand theres been some confusion about how the payments were made, 
because the information is more limited after the time thats passed.  According to the online 
banking audit, two international payments were attempted online, though its unclear whether 
those attempts went through or whether the customer was referred to branch. According to 
international payment processes, for this amount it would usually be done in branch. To be 
on the safe side, I will consider both possibilities.
For these payments to have been made in branch, the person making them would need 
Mr Ss genuine card and the correct PIN. Mr Ss card didnt go missing  I can see he still 
had it afterwards as he used it for genuine spending. And its not likely or plausible that a 
thief would return Mr Ss card to him after stealing it  that would substantially increase their 
chances of being caught while providing no benefit to themselves. Its also unclear how 
someone couldve known Mr Ss PIN without his consent. As the account was new, Mr S had 
never made any payments with his PIN before, so there was no opportunity to watch him 
enter it before this. And his PIN was a randomly generated number, not a number that 
mightve been easy to guess such as a birthday. So if the payments were made in branch, 
then its not very likely or plausible that they were made without Mr Ss consent.
For the payments to be completed online, they needed Mr Ss online banking security 
details, and for his genuine card and the correct PIN to be used in a card reader. According 
to the technical data at hand, the attempted international payments were authenticated 
properly, and there is no sign of any unauthorised access to Mr Ss account. Its not clear 
how someone couldve known Mr Ss security details without his consent. And again, there 
doesnt seem to be a likely or plausible way that someone had access to Mr Ss card and 
PIN without his consent. Further, I can see that the online attempts at international payments 
were made from the same IP address which Mr S had used for his genuine activity.
Indeed, I can see that Mr S accessed his online banking from his usual IP addresses both 
between the international payments and afterwards. He saw his balance being spent, 
downloaded more detailed statements, and had to make credits into his account in order to 
fund his later spending. So Im reasonably satisfied that Mr S was aware of the disputed 
payments at the time. But he didnt tell NatWest anything was wrong for a year. It is not likely 
or plausible that Mr S would wait so long to report the disputed payments if they were made 
without his consent. 
Mr S argued that as he dealt in large sums, he wouldnt notice a few thousand pounds go 
missing. But the disputed transactions paid out almost the entire balance of the account at 
the time. Following the disputed spending, Mr S had to pay more money in in order to make 
his subsequent payments. And according to Mr S, hed ringfenced the £3,000 or so for a 
very important purpose. It is simply not credible that Mr S would not notice this money get 
paid out if it did so without his consent  not least as he was actively checking his account.
While this is a more minor point, I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much money as 
possible, as quickly as possible, before they are discovered and the account is blocked. But 
here, there were days between the first smaller payment and the second much larger 
payment. The person using the account appears to have been confident that Mr S would not 
report the matter in those days. Similarly, since Mr S didnt report the matter at the time, his 
security details were not changed, so the alleged thief wouldve continued to have full 
access to his account. Yet despite Mr S depositing very large sums in the following months, 
there was no further disputed activity. Again, this makes it seem very unlikely indeed that the 
account was being used by a thief or fraudster.I understand that Mr S is unhappy NatWest blocked his account. But it was reasonable for 
them to do so after he told them a fraudster had full access to it. I appreciate he would have 
liked NatWest to have blocked the disputed payments in 2021 too, but I cant see that they 
had good reason to do so  at the time, it wouldve looked like the payments were authorised 
by their genuine customer.
I also understand Mr S is unhappy that NatWest recently closed his account. However, this 
occurred after Mr S brought this case about disputed payments to our service, and is a 
separate issue to the matter of the payments themselves. If he wishes to, Mr S can raise a 
separate complaint with NatWest about the closure of his account.
In summary, based on the evidence, there does not seem to be a likely or plausible way that 
the disputed payments were made without Mr Ss consent. Whereas it looks like Mr S was 
aware of them at the time and chose not to report them. So it seems fair for NatWest to 
decline a refund in this case. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Mr S to receive. But given the evidence I have so far, and the balance 
of probabilities, Im currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
24 October 2023. But Ive not received a reply from either side.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments before the deadline. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman