DRN-2955987
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Everyday Loans Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
In July 2014 ELL agreed a loan of £8,000 to Mr W, to be repaid over 60 months. The 
monthly repayment was £257.28 and this loan remains outstanding. The purpose of this loan 
was for debt consolidation including a loan and credit cards.  
Mr W has said these loans were given irresponsibly. Hes said he was already heavily 
indebted and could afford to take on additional lending. Mr W has said that his statements 
show a great deal of cash withdrawals and he was using this money for gambling. Hes said 
his gambling was a problem and had led to these levels of indebtedness. 
In response to his complaint ELL disagreed it had lent irresponsibly, stating its checks were 
reasonable and proportionate. ELL said that after taking into consideration his income and 
its calculation of Mr Ws living expenses he had approximately £289.37 disposable income 
remaining. It also highlighted that Mr W consolidated a number of existing credit 
commitments using this loan.
One of our investigators has considered the complaint and upheld it. He felt that based on 
the information ELL had available at the time of lending, there were signs that Mr W was 
experiencing significant problems managing his money. So, he concluded that Mr W was 
unlikely to be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way and that it was harmful as a result. 
ELL didnt agree with the investigators opinion. It argued that there were payments relating 
to a holiday and other discretionary spending on Mr Ws statements suggesting he could 
afford to repay this loan. It also argued that a £1,500 transfer was made into Mr Ws account 
from his joint account, again suggesting he could afford to repay this loan. 
As ELL didnt agree with our investigators assessment the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Ws complaint.
The rules and regulations in place at the time of this lending required EEL to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to determine whether Mr W could afford to repay the 
lending in a sustainable manner. The checks needed to be borrower focused, so ELL 
needed to think about whether repaying the credit sustainably wouldve caused difficulties or 
adverse consequences for Mr W. 
What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (such as 
their financial history including with the lender in question, current situation and outlook, and 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit 
they are seeking.
Before agreeing this loan, ELL has said it completed a credit search, had a recent copy of 
Mr Ws bank statement (dated 23 May 2014 to 20 June 2014) and a copy of his payslip. ELL 
has said it used Mr Ws payslip to date figure to calculate that his average monthly income 
was just under £2,300 per month. His actual income for June 2014 was just under £2,400. 
ELL has said it took into consideration his monthly mortgage repayment, credit commitments 
which would remain (including this loan repayment) and attributed a proportion of his income 
for other regular expenditure. It said that, based on these calculations, the loan was 
affordable for Mr W. 
However, looking at Mr Ws bank statement, which ELL has provided, I can see he was 
heavily reliant on his overdraft. He started the statement period £1,400 overdrawn and 
ended the period around £1,525 overdrawn. In Mr Ws contact notes ELL has commented 
his best balance across the month is almost £1,000 overdrawn. In addition, looking at 
Mr Ws credit search results, I can see he had substantial amounts of debt outstanding. 
Together with his overdraft debt, Mr W had over £18,000 in credit card debt and £1,775 on a 
loan. I appreciate £7,000 of this debt was being consolidated using this loan, but that still left 
substantial debt outstanding. And in one example, £2,262 was being repaid to a credit card 
with a balance of £9,607. This would therefore leave Mr W with a large balance remaining on 
this credit card account and the potential to re-spend what he had just repaid using his ELL 
loan.   
As part of completing a reasonable and proportionate check before agreeing to lend, ELL 
also needed to respond appropriately to the information it gathered about Mr Ws 
circumstances. Ive noted ELL has said it calculated that Mr W could afford to repay this loan 
using information it had gathered from the credit search results, what Mr W had told it he 
was paying towards his mortgage and using a formula to calculate his other monthly 
expenditure. However, ELL had information about Mr Ws wider financial circumstances, 
including his bank statement from the previous month which it shouldve properly considered 
before making its lending decision. 
I think it was clear from the information ELL had available that Mr W was already over reliant 
on credit and by agreeing this loan ELL further increased his indebtedness in a way which 
was unsustainable and harmful to him. So I dont think ELL shouldve agreed this loan. 
Putting things right
As I dont think that ELL should have agreed to lend Mr W this loan, ELL should:
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr W made towards this loan as payments towards the capital. 
if reworking Mr Ws loan account as Ive directed results in Mr W effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loan.  HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Everyday Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
