DRN-3783755
The complaint
Mr C and Mr G complain that Ulster Bank Ltd blocked and closed their account without 
notice. They would like compensation and a reason.
What happened
Mr C and Mr G had a joint account with Ulster Bank. 
Following a review of their account, Ulster Bank wrote to Mr C and Mr G on 1 May 2021 and 
gave them 14 days notice of the closure of the account.
Mr C contacted Ulster Bank to find out the reason why his account was blocked and would 
be closed.
Mr C has said that he found it very difficult to be without access to his money and it had 
affected his mental health. Mr C didnt have access to his money for 6 days.
Ulster Bank said they had closed Mr C and Mr Gs account in line with their terms and 
conditions.
Mr C was able to access the money in his account on 5 May 2021.And all his remaining 
funds were returned to him by 18 May 2021
Mr C complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint she 
thought Ulster Bank had done nothing wrong when they closed Mr C and Mr Gs account. 
And they werent obliged to give customers notice of the restrictions on their account.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr C and Mr Gs account. UK 
legislation places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial 
institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Ulster 
Bank were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Mr C and Mr Gs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account the bank was following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Ulster Bank was unfair. 
Following the review Ulster Bank decided to close Mr C and Mr Gs account. Its generally for 
banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who 
has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Ulster Bank acted fairly in closing Mr C and Mr Gs account. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and 
conditions outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and 
in certain circumstances they can close an account with less notice. In this case Ulster Bank 
closed Mr C and Mr Gs account with 14 days notice. For Ulster bank to act fairly here they 
needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at 
these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And 
it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done. 
I know that Mr C would like to be told the reason for the account block and closure. Whilst 
Mr C may have expected to be given the reasons for the block and closure, Ulster Bank 
doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no 
obligation to tell Mr C the reasons behind the account block, as much as hed like to know. 
So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr C this information. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Mr C has said he should have received notice that his account was to be blocked as he 
wasnt able to access his funds for 6 days and this had a detrimental effect on his mental 
health, and he was unable to provide for his family. I appreciate the financial difficulty Mr C 
was under as a result of the account block. Mr C has mentioned how this affected his mental 
health and I am very sorry to hear about the difficulties he experienced. But Ive already said 
that Ulster Bank didnt do anything wrong when they blocked Mr C and Mr Gs account, so I 
wont be asking it to pay compensation.
Mr C has mentioned that he is unhappy that we have sided with the bank, and he doesnt 
see how they were justified in treating him the way they did. I know Mr C is frustrated by the 
whole incident. So, Id like to reassure Mr C that our rules allow us to receive evidence in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains information about other customers or security information. The 
evidence that has been received is confidential, but Id like to reassure Mr C and Mr G that I 
have reviewed the evidence and Im satisfied that Ulster Bank have acted fairly in this case.
I know that Mr C and Mr G will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the 
evidence Im satisfied that Ulster Bank acted fairly when it reviewed, blocked and closed 
Mr C and Mr Gs account and I wont be asking it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman