DRN-3844060
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as M, is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc terminated 
its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) agreement and decided to close its accounts.
Ms complaint is brought to this service by one its directors, whom Ill refer to as Mr S.
What happened
In May 2020, M successfully applied to HSBC for a £50,000 BBL and received the loan 
funds shortly afterwards. 
In February 2022, HSBC wrote to M and asked it to provide further information to enable 
HSBC to confirm Ms trading status as of 1 March 2020. When M didnt provide the further 
information required, HSBC wrote to it again and explained that it was seeking to confirm 
Ms eligibility to have received the BBL. And, when M didnt subsequently confirm its 
eligibility to receive the BBL, HSBC terminated the BBL agreement and informed M that it 
was no longer willing to provide banking services to M and had closed its accounts. 
Mr S wasnt happy about this, especially as HSBC had frozen Ms business current account 
and used the money present in that account to offset the amount M owed on the BBL. So, he 
raised a complaint on Ms behalf. HSBC looked at Ms complaint but didnt feel that theyd 
acted unfairly by taking the decisions they had, and so didnt uphold it. Mr S wasnt satisfied 
with HSBCs response, so he referred Ms complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how they managed the situation. Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the BBL scheme, an applicant had to have been carrying on business 
prior to 1 March 2020 and could borrow up to 25% of their annual turnover  up to a 
maximum amount of £50,000  for which the 2019 calendar years turnover was to be used. 
If the applicant had only been established after 1 January 2019, then the applicant could 
provide an estimate of projected annual turnover in support of its application. 
In its BBL application, M declared it met the eligibility criteria to receive a BBL and declared 
an annual turnover of £212,000. Because of the unique circumstances which led to the 
creation of the BBL scheme, lenders were expected to process BBL applications quickly, 
and accordingly were allowed to accept the information provided by an applicant. Because of 
this, HSBC accepted the self-declaration from M that it was eligible to receive a BBL and that 
its estimated turnover qualified it to receive the maximum BBL amount of £50,000.
But lenders such as HSBC were also entitled to keep matters under review. And, when 
HSBC conducted a review of Ms BBL application and accounts, it couldnt see any evidence 
of the qualifying annual turnover that M had self-declared, or that M had been trading before 
1 March 2020, as was required by the eligibility criteria of the BBL scheme.
Because of this, HSBC wrote to M on several occasions and explained that it was seeking to 
confirm Ms eligibility to have received the BBL. But M didnt then provide the further 
information required by HSBC to confirm it had been eligible to receive the BBL. So, Im 
satisfied that it wasnt then unfair for HSBC to have taken the decision to terminate Ms BBL 
agreement as it did, on the grounds that M hadnt been eligible to receive the BBL. And the 
terms and conditions of the BBL agreement allowed HSBC to take such action.
Mr S has confirmed that, while M had been incorporated before 1 January 2019, it had 
initially been placed into a state of dormancy and didnt start trading until after 1 January 
2019  meaning that it had been right for him to have submitted Ms BBL application with an 
estimate of annual turnover. 
Ive reviewed Ms business current account (BCA) statements. These show a first 
transaction on the account in December 2018 followed by minimal account activity for a 
prolonged period after this date. As such, it seems reasonable to me that M might not have 
been trading for some time as Mr S has explained. But while the BBL application criteria do 
allow for an estimate of projected business turnover to be used by an applicant, this is only 
the case if the applicant business was established after 1 January 2019  which M wasnt. 
Additionally, for M to have been eligible to have received the BBL, it would have needed to 
have been trading before 1 March 2020. But Ms BCA statements dont show this, and 
instead show the same continuing minimal account activity  consistent with a dormant 
company  until 1 March 2020 and beyond.
Indeed, it seems from Ms BCA statements that M only commenced trading after it received 
the £50,000 BBL funds in May 2020. And this means Im satisfied that HSBC havent acted 
unfairly by considering M to have been ineligible to have received the BBL and to have 
terminated the agreement as it did.
Mr S is also unhappy that HSBC made the decision to no longer offer banking services to M 
and to close Ms accounts  and that HSBC used the balance held in Ms BCA to offset the 
amount that M has outstanding on the BBL.
But in much the same way as a customer can choose to no longer do business with a 
specific bank, so a bank can also choose to no longer offer its services to a specific 
customer. HSBCs terms allow for the immediate closure of accounts by HSBC in certain 
circumstances, including when fraudulent activity may have occurred. And given that Im 
satisfied that M werent eligible to have applied for the BBL that they did, Im consequently 
satisfied that HSBC havent acted unfairly by applying these terms in this instance. 
Additionally, the terms of the BBL include that HSBC can take any available funds from a 
customers other HSBC accounts  such a BCA  to reduce any outstanding BBL debt. This 
is known as off-setting and is common in loan agreements. As such, Im satisfied HSBC 
havent acted unfairly by offsetting Ms BCA balance against its BBL debt as they have.  
All of which means that I dont feel HSBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards M as 
Mr S contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing HSBC to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman