DRN-4424549
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were wrongly advised by London and Country Mortgages 
Ltd (trading as L&C Mortgages) that theyd be able to retain the mortgage product theyd 
applied for if they changed the property they wanted to buy. As a result, they missed out on 
lower interest rate products. They also complain about poor service and delays.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took mortgage advice from L&C Mortgages in November 2021. Theyd found a 
property, but were still looking at other properties. Interest rates were increasing and they 
wanted to secure a product. L&C Mortgages submitted an application on their behalf.
Shortly, after this Mr and Mrs P had an offer accepted on a different property. They say they 
werent told until January 2022 that this meant they had to choose a new product, at which 
point interest rates had increased. Mr and Mrs P say this will cost them about £8,000 in 
additional interest.
L&C Mortgages said while it had told Mr and Mrs P they could make changes to the 
application it didnt tell them theyd be able to keep the product rate. It said this was at the 
lenders discretion. It offered £200 compensation for issues Mr and Mrs P experienced with 
its online portal and the speed of their application.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I intended to uphold the complaint. 
I said L&C Mortgages hadnt explained clearly to Mr and Mrs P in November 2021 that it was 
up to the lender to decide whether they were able to keep the product. And L&C Mortgages 
didnt chase the lender for a decision. As a result, I said Mr and Mrs P missed the 
opportunity to decide whether to choose a new product in late 2021. I said L&C should pay 
compensation based on the rate Mr and Mrs P could have taken out in early December 2021 
and £400 compensation (in total) for the upset caused.
Mr and Mrs P said theyd have pushed to get the lower rate that was available until the end 
of November 2021 if theyd been made aware of the risks. They said they had to chase L&C 
Mortgages for updates with the application. However, they said theyd accept the 
compensation in my provisional decision.
L&C Mortgages didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said the lenders usual policy 
was to allow customers to keep the rate unless a change in the loan to value meant they 
needed to choose a product from a different loan to value range, which wasnt the case here. 
L&C also said it didnt chase the lender for a response as, based on the lenders usual policy 
and that it didnt notify it otherwise, it had no expectation that the rate wouldnt be retained. It 
said its staff were in regular contact with the lender which had ample opportunity to confirm a 
new rate was required, and the lender might not have been in a position to give an answer 
earlier. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P took mortgage advice from L&C Mortgages in late 2021. Mr and Mrs P were 
unsure about the property theyd agreed to buy. L&C Mortgages suggested waiting until they 
found another property, but Mr and Mrs P wanted to secure an interest rate product before 
rates increased. L&C Mortgages submitted an application on their behalf on 9 November 
2021. This had a 1.19% fixed interest rate product.
On 18 November 2021 Mr and Mrs P told L&C Mortgages theyd had an offer accepted for a 
different property. L&C Mortgages called the lender the next day and asked if the interest 
rate would stay the same if they changed the property. The lender said L&C Mortgages 
should submit the change of details form and the case manager would let it know if theres 
anything further that it required it to do. L&C Mortgages submitted the change form to the 
lender.
The lender told L&C Mortgages that Mr and Mrs P needed to choose a new product on 19 
January 2022. They took out a five-year 1.64% fixed interest rate product with the same 
lender. At this point, Mr and Mrs P say it was too close to completion for them to look 
elsewhere.
It was the lenders decision not to allow Mr and Mrs P to retain the 1.19% interest rate 
product after the change of property. So the fact that Mr and Mrs P werent able to retain this 
product isnt due to any error by L&C Mortgages. To put it another way, there is nothing L&C 
Mortgages could have done differently that would have meant Mr and Mrs P could keep the 
1.19% rate.
The issue here is whether L&C Mortgages gave Mr and Mrs P clear information in mid-
November 2021 about their options and the risk that the lender might not let them keep the 
product. And if not, what the consequences of that were.
Ive listened to L&C Mortgages call with the lender on 19 November 2021. L&C Mortgages 
asked whether Mr and Mrs P could keep the product after changing the property. The lender 
said it would review the change form and advise whether L&C Mortgages needed to do 
anything more. The lender didnt give L&C Mortgages a clear answer, so, in fairness, it 
couldnt have told Mr and Mrs P at that time whether or not theyd be able to keep the rate.
L&C Mortgages spoke to Mrs P later that day. It says it didnt give her any assurances that 
theyd be able to keep the rate if they changed properties. But L&C Mortgages adviser said 
that changing the loan amount might mean changing the product. He didnt say that this 
could be the case with the change of property. He said if the loan amount was the same and 
the purchase price was different (as was the case here), they could probably get away with 
keeping the same product. Mrs P agreed not to change the loan amount.
Having listened to L&C Mortgages call with Mrs P I think shed have been left with the 
impression that theyd be able to keep the product if they didnt change the loan amount. 
From what L&C Mortgages has said, thats what it expected to happen. But that isnt what 
the lender said on the recorded phone call. It simply said it would let L&C Mortgages know 
what it needed to do.L&C Mortgages provided a message from the lender sent in July 2023 which seems to be a 
response to a request for information about its approach when theres a change of property. 
The lender said You would need to complete COA (Change of Application Form) with new 
property details and upload this to the online portal and if LTV is not affected can keep same 
rate. L&C Mortgages says the lenders reference to the LTV not being affected is that the 
LTV stayed within the same product range.
I dont know why the lender didnt allow Mr and Mrs P to retain the product. L&C Mortgages 
suggests there could be a reason not related to the change in the property  although it 
hasnt said what this could be. But, based on what the lender told L&C Mortgages in 
November 2021, I think L&C Mortgages should have told Mr and Mrs P that it had asked the 
lender if theyd be able to keep the product rate and they had to wait for the lender to review 
the change form and let them know.
L&C Mortgages says the lender had said it would let L&C Mortgages know what it needed to 
do, and it was reasonable for it to assume it didnt need to do anything. L&C Mortgages says 
it spoke to the lender a number of times in late 2021 and the lender had ample opportunity to 
say Mr and Mrs P had to choose a new rate before mid-January 2022. L&C said the product 
wasnt mentioned on these calls.
Im not looking into the actions of the lender here, or whether the lender could or should 
have told L&C Mortgages sooner that Mr and Mrs P had to choose a new rate. Im only 
considering Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about L&C Mortgages.
I dont think it was reasonable for L&C Mortgages to wait two months rather than ask the 
lender to confirm whether Mr and Mrs P needed to choose a new rate. In response to my 
provisional decision, L&C Mortgages said the lenders usual policy is to allow changes to an 
application without the loss of the rate applied for. It said the information provided by the 
lender in this call was contrary to its normal policy. But L&C Mortgages called the lender and 
asked whether the rate would be retained if the property changed. If anything, the fact that 
its response was different to what L&C Mortgages expected should have alerted it to the 
possibility this policy had changed or didnt apply here. 
This happened in late 2021 when mortgage lenders were increasing interest rates. I think it 
would have been reasonable for L&C Mortgages to ask the lender if it could provide an 
answer as to whether Mr and Mrs P could keep the rate. And if Mr and Mrs P had known 
what the lender said on the call in November 2021, I think theyd have wanted L&C 
Mortgages to do so. 
So I think L&C Mortgages made two errors. It didnt tell Mr and Mrs P that the lender had 
said it would review the change form and let them know if they could keep the rate. Instead, 
it gave them the impression this would happen if they didnt change the loan amount. And it 
didnt chase the lender for an answer.
Had Mr and Mrs P known there was a risk they might not be able to keep the rate, they could 
have decided whether to wait for the lender to respond or look for a new product.
Its difficult now to know whether Mr and Mrs P would have found a better rate from another 
lender or if an application to a different lender would have been successful. But its likely 
they would have been able to choose a new product with the same lender.
We asked the lender for information about the product rates available in late 2021. Mr and 
Mrs P took out a five-year fixed interest rate product. Interest rates for the equivalent 
products available from the same lender were 1.49% (from 16 November 2021 to 30 November 2021), 1.54% (from 1 December 2021 to 13 December 2021) and 1.64% (from 14 
December 2021).
Mr and Mrs P say theyd have had time to apply for a new product before the end of 
November 2021, with the same or another lender. While I think thats right, what I have to 
decide is whether theyd have done so. Mr and Mrs P might have decided to apply for a new 
product with the same or a different lender immediately, before they heard back from the 
lender. But I think its more likely theyd have waited for a week or two in the hope theyd be 
able to retain the 1.19% rate.
However, I dont think Mr and Mrs P would have waited two months to hear back, or much 
more than two weeks. L&C Mortgages has said Mr and Mrs P were concerned to secure an 
interest rate product and with interest rates generally continuing to rise I think theyd have 
wanted certainty. I think Mr and Mrs P would have asked L&C Mortgages to chase the 
lender for an answer. 
While I dont know if the lender would have responded before the end of November 2021, I 
think its reasonable to assume that the lender would  if chased  have confirmed that Mr 
and Mrs P needed to choose a new rate before mid-December 2021. If the lender was still 
unable to give an answer, Mr and Mrs P would have had to decide whether to continue to 
wait or apply for a new product. Waiting would have left them not knowing when theyd have 
an answer or what product rates might be available at that time. Given Mr and Mrs P said at 
the outset they wanted to secure a rate before rates increased (and rates had increased 
since then) I think theyd have re-applied with a new rate for the certainty this would provide.
I think, if Mr and Mrs P had been told there was a real risk that they wouldnt be able to keep 
the product, they would most likely have chosen a new rate with the same lender at the rates 
available in early December 2021.
Putting things right
I think L&C Mortgages should compensate Mr and Mrs P for their additional interest costs, 
having missed out on the 1.54% five-year product available in early December 2021. L&C 
Mortgages sent a calculation of the compensation in response to my provisional decision, 
which we shared with Mr and Mrs P.
L&C Mortgages offered £200 compensation for problems Mr and Mrs P experienced with 
their application and the online portal. I think L&C Mortgages should also pay compensation 
for the upset caused to Mr and Mrs P when they were told they had to choose a new product 
in January 2022, having previously been told theyd probably get away with keeping the 
same product. And when they did find out they couldnt keep the product it was too late for 
them to apply to other lenders. I think L&C Mortgages should pay another £200 for the upset 
this caused, bringing the compensation to £400 (in total).
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order London and Country Mortgages Ltd 
(trading as L&C Mortgages) to pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman