DRN-2177735
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with his 
home insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr A had a home insurance policy with RSA to cover his flat. In May 2019 he discovered a 
leak from the flat above that had caused damage to his kitchen and lounge. He made a 
claim on the insurance.
RSA sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and initially an assessment was made 
that as the claim was likely to be less than £10,000 the broker would deal with it as part if its 
delegated authority. However after a second inspection the assessment of the value was 
increased. And in September 2019 the claim was passed back to RSA to deal with directly. 
Mr A wished to stay in his home at the time so a disturbance allowance was paid at £15 a 
day, due to the fact his kitchen was out of use. 
Towards the end of 2019 Mr Q made a complaint to RSA. He said the claim had taken much 
longer than he expected and there had been a number of avoidable delays. He said if he 
had known how long it would have taken he would have chosen to be put in alternative 
accommodation.
RSA upheld Mr As complaint. It agreed there had been a number of delays that could have 
been avoided. It offered £750 compensation to make up for this. It also increased the 
disturbance allowance paid to £20 a day and backdated this to the start of the claim.
Mr A didnt think this was enough. He said that as he would have chosen to go into 
alternative accommodation if he had known how long the claim would take, he should be 
paid the amount this would have cost. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he agreed there had been avoidable delays caused by RSA and its contractors but 
thought the compensation and extra disturbance allowance was enough to make up for this.
Mr A didnt agree this was fair. He said the amount of time the claim had taken to be dealt 
with was unacceptable and he would have taken up alternative accommodation if he had 
known. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home insurance claims following a leak will often involve a level of disruption, distress and 
inconvenience. And can sometimes take a number of months for all work to be completed. 
So I need to consider whether RSA caused unnecessary delays when dealing with Mr As 
claim. And if so, whether it has done enough to put things right.
Mr A first discovered the leak in May 2019. And it wasnt until September that year that RSA 
became involved. It then wasnt until October that drying started. This meant there was a 
long period time from when the claim was raised until any work begun.
Having looked at the correspondence provided by RSA I can see that the main reason for 
these delays was due to the number of contractors involved and uncertainty over who would 
take forward the claim. RSA has explained that it uses a broker to handle its claims on a 
delegated authority basis if they are under £10,00 in value. To start with the claim was 
considered likely to fall under this amount. However, following a second assessment, it was 
decided that the reserve would be set much higher than this. So the claim was passed back 
to RSA.
So I can see that this would cause a delay to the claim being taken forward. However it took 
five months from the date Mr A registered the claim until RSA took ownership of it. I agree 
that this is far longer than it should have reasonably taken.
Further I can see that it then took an additional month before drying then begun. So by this 
time Mr A had been waiting a significant amount of time without any progress. So based on 
what Ive seen I think RSA has caused avoidable delays which has led to the claim taking 
longer to resolve than it should have done. 
RSA has accepted that it caused some avoidable delays and has offered Mr A £750 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused. This amount is in 
line with what I would recommend in these circumstances, so I am satisfied that this is 
sufficient to make up for the delays. So I wont ask RSA to pay anything more.
 
Mr A is also unhappy that he wasnt placed in alternative accommodation during the claim. 
Given Mr As age, the size of the flat and the length of time the claim took to resolve I 
undertsand these concerns. 
When the claim was first raised, the loss adjuster thought it wouldnt take long for the issue 
to be resolved. On this basis it wasnt seen as necessary to put Mr A in alternative 
accommodation. And it was reported that this wasnt his wish at the time. I understand that 
since this initial decision, the claim has taken a lot longer than originally predicted. And had 
Mr A been aware of this he may have made a different decision. 
RSA originally paid Mr A £15 a day disturbance allowance. At the start of the claim, 
considering the predicted completion date and Mr As own wishes, I think this was a 
reasonable course of action. Further Following his complaint it increased tis to £20 and paid 
all backdated payments. I think this was a fair resolution and made additional allowances for 
Mr As personal circumstances.
Mr A says that as he would have been entitled to alternative accommodation under the 
policy, then RSA has saved money by not paying for this so should pay him the cost. 
Although I agree that in hindsight alternative accommodation may have been a better option, 
I think RSA were reasonable in not offering it at the time of the claim. The money RSA would 
have spent would only ever have been used to provide accommodation under the policy. 
And not as an additional cash payment to Mr A. So I dont think its fair to ask RSA to pay 
Mr A money it would have spent on this.
Further it has provided a backdated payment of £20 per day for disturbance allowance. This 
is to make up for any additional costs Mr A may have incurred due to not having use of his kitchen.  This is above the usual rate RSA would pay as it takes into account Mr As 
circumstances. So I think this is fair in the circumstances and I wont ask RSA to do anything 
further.
So although I can see that RSA hasnt provided the best service and has caused avoidable 
delays, I am satisfied that it has done enough to make up for this. So I wont ask it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman