DRN-2583881
The complaint
Mr J complains about the decision made by Soteria Insurance Limited to turn down 
his buildings insurance claim for subsidence.
Although the complaint was initially brought in joint name, Mr Js wife has since sadly 
passed away. Ive therefore only referred to Mr J in this decision.
What happened
Mr J made a claim in 2018 after noticing cracks in the house and garage. Soteria 
thought there had been subsidence damage and so carried out investigations and 
arranged for the property to be monitored.
In June 2019, Soteria turned down the claim as it thought the movement had been 
caused by inadequate foundations, which was excluded under the policy. Mr J didnt 
agree with Soterias conclusions, and so he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the evidence 
supported that inadequate foundations had caused the movement. Consequently, she 
found it had been reasonable for Soteria to turn down the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy covers subsidence. However, this cover is excluded if the subsidence is 
caused by, amongst others, faulty design, or foundations which didnt meet building 
regulations at the time of construction.
The main house was built around 1980 and purchased by Mr J a few years later. Then 
in 1986, Mr J added an extension, and built a garage.
The site investigations found that there were clay subsoils which had been affected by 
nearby vegetation. The garage foundations were 100mm below ground, and the roots 
from the nearby vegetation were encountered between 100mm and 2.2m below the 
garage. The main house foundations were 900mm below ground. The roots from 
nearby vegetation were encountered between 900mm and 2.1m below the house.
Soteria has provided an extract from the building regulations in place from 1985. This 
says that a building should be constructed so that movements of the subsoil caused by 
swelling, shrinkage or freezing of the subsoil will not affect the stability of any part of the 
building. It doesnt mention any minimum foundation depths.
Soteria has relied upon guidance issued by a builder of new homes (that Ill call N) in the 
1970s. Ns guidance says that in heavy, shrinkable clay soils, the minimum foundation 
depth ought to be 900mm. It also says that if trees are nearby, depending on the distance 
of the trees from the dwelling as well as the type of trees, the foundation depth ought to be 
1m  2.8m, and that an extra 50% depth may be necessary if the trees are in rows or 
groups.
There are three mature trees in close proximity to the property. Based on Ns guidance, 
Soterias subsidence specialist thought the foundations for the main house and garage 
ought to have been 2.8m.
In relying on the exclusion, the onus falls to Soteria to show that it applies. That means 
it needs to show that the subsidence happened because of faulty design, or because 
the foundations for the house and the garage didnt meet building regulations when 
they were constructed. However, I dont think it has shown this. Ill explain why.
As far as Im aware, Ns guidance only applied to builders/developers working for N. I 
havent seen any evidence that the builder of Mr Js main house or garage was working 
for N, and therefore had to adhere to Ns guidance. So I dont think it would be fair to 
assess the depth of the foundations in accordance with Ns guidance. The policy 
specifically refers to building regulations, and so these are the regulations that I need to 
consider.
Soteria hasnt provided this service with the building regulations that were in force when 
the main house was built. So it hasnt shown that the foundations didnt meet building 
regulations at the time of construction. And taking into account that the property stood for 
nearly 40 years before showing any signs of damage, I dont think Soteria can 
reasonably say that the foundations were of faulty design.
Soterias specialist has made particular reference to the shallow depths of the garage 
foundations. The garage was built after the 1985 building regulations came into force. 
Though as the garage is a detached structure, I understand it may have been exempt 
from building regulations (this is dependent on the size of the garage, and its distance 
from the main house). Soteria hasnt commented on this. Though even if the garage 
was exempt, then I think building regulations can be reasonable guidance of what was 
good practice at the time.
I appreciate that the garage foundations were only 100mm below ground. There is 
perhaps an argument to be made that the garages foundations were a faulty design 
because it would have likely been clear to the builder that such shallow foundations 
wouldnt comply with the building regulations (which required a building to be constructed 
so that movements of the subsoil wouldnt affect the buildings stability). And that the 
foundations ought to have therefore been excavated to the same depth as the main 
houses foundations.
However, I note the vegetation roots were found some way below the garages 
foundations - at depths of 1.10m and 2.20m, which were both lower that the foundation 
depth of the main house. That being the case, I cant reasonably conclude that the 
subsidence to the garage was caused by faulty design, when its likely the garage would 
have been affected by subsidence even if the foundations had been excavated to the 
same depth as those of the main house.
Consequently, I dont think Soteria has shown that the subsidence damage was caused 
by faulty design or that the foundations didnt meet building regulations at the time. 
Soteria should therefore deal with the claim.
I think Mr J has been caused a lot of upset and worry as a result of Soteria unfairly 
declining his claim. I intend to require Soteria to pay him £400 compensation for this.
Soteria offered Mr J £75 compensation for communication failings, because it didnt 
return a phone call. I think that was reasonable.I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Both parties responded and confirmed they accepted my provisional findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to change 
these. I therefore remain satisfied the claim should be accepted, and for the same reasons 
given in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Soteria Insurance Limited to deal 
with the subsidence claim in line with the remaining policy terms. I also require it to pay 
Mr J £400 compensation (in addition to the £75 compensation already offered).
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman