DRN-3690166
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim she made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system she says 
was misrepresented to her by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mrs N is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2018, Mrs N purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. Mrs N financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In February 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ns behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs N to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding because the FIT payments and electricity savings 
would cover loan repayments. 
Ikano issued explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs N or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mrs N relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative and 
placed little reliance on the sales documents.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mrs N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs N could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs N and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and order form.
The order form is a one-page document which sets out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed 
during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mrs Ns recollection of the 
sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out:
The cash price £5,875.00
The amount being borrowed £5,875.00
The interest to be charged £1,878.68
The total amount payable £7,753.68
The  term of the loan 120 months
The contractual monthly repayments £64.62
Order form
The CMC has pointed out that Mrs K signed and was left with two order forms. I think the 
order for with reference 8626 is more relevant. This is because it is based on an annual 
generation figure of 1,820 kWh. This is closer to the figure shown in the post-installation 
welcome pack and MCS certificate of 1,857 kWh. This is slightly higher than shown on the 
other order form, which also showed lower benefits. 
The order form set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year benefits of 
the system as follows:I think it is clear from this that the system would cost £5,875.00, of which the full amount was 
to be funded by a 120 months loan. It refers to this as IKANO 120. I think Mrs N wouldve 
understood this given she agreed at the same meeting to part-fund the purchase using the  
interest-bearing loan from Ikano.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£174.75 and £232.22 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings. Self-consumption rate is 
the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mrs N would use herself. 
The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each other on the order 
form, just above where Mrs N signed, so these figures couldve been compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. For a ten-year interest-
free loan of £5,875.00, the repayments would be £587.50 per year. This is significantly more 
than the highest potential benefit quoted of £232.22. 
While the order form doesnt allow a direct comparison between the benefits and the loan 
repayments, it allows a comparison between the benefits and the basic cost, which is lower. 
And despite comparing the benefits to the lower basic cost of the system, it is clear the 
benefits would not cover the cost over the term of the loan. So, bearing in mind the loan 
would increase the cost, it seems unlikely that the salesperson wouldve made a 
representation that the system would immediately be self-funding.
I think this order form was an integral part of the sale and these figures would most likely 
have been discussed with Mrs N. It seem unlikely that the salesperson wouldve completed 
this form by hand during the meeting without at the same time discussing them with Mrs N, 
who confirmed her agreement to the purchase by signing the same form in that meeting.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mrs N has alleged.
Performance
Ive considered whether the performance of the system is in line with estimate in the order 
form. The order form sets out that the system is expected to produce 1,820 kWh per year. 
The MCS certificate shows it is expected to generate 1,857 kWh per year. I have looked at 
Mrs Ns FIT statements and can see that her system is performing as expected  generating 
approximately 2,135 kWh in the first year. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mrs N to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman