DRN-4321981
The complaint
Mr E complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) declined his claim 
following an engine failure, under his motor warranty policy. 
What happened
When driving his car Mr E noticed a loss of power. His vehicle was recovered, and he made 
a claim to Fortegra. He says his claim was declined based on an exclusion not declared 
within his policy. Mr E obtained an independent engineers report that he says identifies a 
different cause to that claimed by the business. He says there are multiple parts that could 
be the cause of the engine failure. 
In its final response to Mr Es complaint Fortegra says an independent engineer concluded 
the technicians diagnosis was correct. Specifically, the cause of the engine failure was the 
crankshaft bolt becoming loose. It says this component is excluded by its agreement. 
Fortegra also refers to Mr Es engineers report findings. It says a stretched timing chain and 
a lazy timing chain tensioner, arent covered by his policy. It considers this to be the result of 
wear and tear. But maintains that the loose crankshaft bolt is the cause of the engine failure. 
Mr E disagreed with this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He says the policy doesnt exclude this component from cover. It 
specifically includes crankshaft under the What is covered section. Our investigator says 
its unfair for Fortegra to decline Mr Es claim for the reason it gave. It should reconsider his 
claim based on the remaining terms and condition of its policy. He says it should also 
reimburse the £195 he paid for an independent engineers report. 
Mr E accepted our investigators findings. Fortegra didnt respond. As an agreement wasnt 
reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Es complaint, let me explain. 
Ive read the engineers report Fortegra obtained. Ive copied relevant excerpts below:
General summary/Conclusions - The Examiner can confirm Valve to Piston Contact and 
subsequent damages, due to the Crankshaft drive gear being an interference fit (Without a 
Locating Woodruff Key) It is crucial that the crankshaft bolt is fully tightened to its specified 
torque to ensure the free floating crankshaft gear / pulley does not move. From the evidence 
presented the engineer is satisfied the repairer has followed a structured diagnostic path and 
can confirm valve piston contact has occurred with catastrophic damage present in cylinder 
number 5. Having considered the evidence and information provided, the engineer believes 
the engine damage is consistent with the technicians diagnosis of the crankshaft bolt 
becoming loose. This would have led to the valvetrain / crankshaft timing becoming out of 
synchronisation causing irreversible engine damage. to be in a serviceable condition.
Ive also read the report Mr E obtained. Ive copied the relevant excerpts from the conclusion 
section below:
In the absence of evidence of incorrect combustion, we conclude that the valve to piston 
contact had been the result of a stretched timing chain and a lazy timing chain tensioner. A 
stretched timing chain and a lazy timing chain tensioner induces timing chain chatter which, 
ultimately, can result in one or more teeth jumping that then causes the valve to piston 
contact. Timing chain chatter can also cause engine vibrations which could account for the 
displacement of the bottom pulley securing studs, however it doesnt account for the tooling 
witness markings on the centre securing bolt. The current level of stripping is insufficient to 
allow us to obtain evidence of a sudden and unforeseen material or mechanical failure.
Ive thought about Fortegras comments that a stretched timing chain and lazy timing chain 
tensioner, would be excluded due by wear and tear. Having read Mr Es policy terms, I think 
this is fair. The definition section sets out the following:
Mechanical Breakdown: The actual breakage of a mechanical component or the complete 
failure of an electrical component causing a sudden stoppage of its function, not by Wear 
and Tear, normal deterioration, negligence or driver abuse which render components 
inoperative.
I think Fortegras comments are persuasive that this type of failure is associated with wear 
and tear. As this is excluded in the policy terms, I agree there is no cover in place for this 
cause. 
That said Fortegra maintains that its the loose crankshaft pulley centre bolt that is the cause 
of the engine failure. Ive read the policy exclusions, but I cant see that this is mentioned. 
The policy terms and conditions provide a section on What is Covered. This includes a 
segment headed, Engine  internal components. Crankshaft is included in this segment.
Fortegra declined Mr Es claim saying the crankshaft bolt is excluded from his agreement. 
But as discussed I cant see that this is the case. The crankshaft is included in the policy 
cover as a component that forms part of the engine. I dont think the average person would 
understand the difference between the crankshaft bolt and the crankshaft and would expect 
this to be covered. So, I dont think its fair that Fortegra has decided to exclude the 
crankshaft bolt, which is part of this assembly. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Fortegra treated Mr E fairly when declining his 
claim for the reason it gave. It should now reconsider his claim based on the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. I also agree with our investigators view that Fortegra should 
reimburse the cost of the engineers report Mr E paid for, as this shouldnt have been 
necessary. 
Mr E has requested recompense for the interest charges he incurred when obtaining the 
finances to repair to his car. For clarity, I havent instructed Fortegra to pay the claim, only to 
reconsider it. So, I cant ask it to pay the interest charges Mr E has requested. 
If Mr E accepts my decision Fortegra must reconsider his claim based on the remaining 
terms and conditions of his policy. It cant rely on an exclusion relating to the crankshaft bolt.    My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd 
should:
reconsider Mr Es claim based on the remaining policy terms and conditions; and
reimburse Mr E for the cost of his engineers report. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman