DRN-3266063
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service hes received from Amtrust International Underwriters DAC 
when hes attempted to make claims under his structural building warranty. Hes also 
unhappy with the policy itself and the level of cover it provides.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr D moved into a new home hed purchased from a developer, which came 
with a ten-year structural building warranty underwritten by Amtrust.
There were unfortunately a number of problems in the construction of Mr Ds home, and as 
the developer didnt fix all of these, he approached Amtrust to raise the issues and to claim 
under his warranty.
There were several specific issues with Mr Ds property that Amtrust looked at. But Mr D 
wasnt happy with the decision reached by Amtrust, and with a number of aspects relating to 
the policy itself. So he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and wrote to both Mr D and Amtrust with his initial 
thoughts on things.
Mr D didnt agree with certain findings reached by our investigator. And he provided detailed 
responses and raised a number of issues surrounding the claim he made, the policy itself, 
the documents and the actions of Amtrust in relation to the build of his home and claim. And 
he made a number of comparisons with other products available on the market which he 
says shows his policy is inferior.
Amtrust also responded to our investigators assessment of things disagreeing with certain 
aspects, and not commenting on others.
Our investigator revisited things each time the parties provided responses and let them know 
his thoughts. Ultimately the final position reached was that our investigator upheld the 
complaint in part and said Amtrust needed to reassess Mr Ds roof verges claim in line with 
the remaining terms, carry out further investigations into the party wall and water leak parts 
of the claim to see if they were valid, and to investigate the drainage issue if Mr D makes a 
claim.
Neither Mr D or Amtrust agreed overall, and as an agreement couldnt be reached an 
ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should start by acknowledging Mr D has purchased a home which unfortunately has 
a number of problems. The developer hasnt fixed everything which Mr D has raised, so hes 
needed to approach Amtrust, the underwriter of his warranty, to see if he can make claims. I 
do appreciate buying a home with many issues will be distressing and I empathise with the 
position Mr D has found himself in.
But whilst that might be the case, what I need to consider here is whether Amtrust is 
responsible, under the terms of Mr Ds warranty, to then fix the problems.
Its clear that Mr D feels very strongly about many different areas of the warranty he has, and 
that he feels it isnt comparable to other products on the market. But I do need to take into 
account that this is the product Mr D has when reaching my final decision.
Mr D has also provided very detailed responses and arguments to our investigator, raised a 
number of issues and wider comments and concerns about things such as how Amtrust act 
more generally, and the range of other products available with other providers. I dont mean 
it as a discourtesy to Mr D (or Amtrust) but I dont intend to comment on or respond to every 
argument or concern Mr D has presented. Id like to reassure Mr D and Amtrust that Ive 
considered everything theyve mentioned when reaching my final decision. But Ill focus on 
what I consider to be important in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr D has claimed for specific areas of defect and damage to his home, so Ill consider these 
separately. Ill also briefly recap the investigators findings in these areas, along with my own 
decision in relation to these.
Roof Verges
Mr D has reported issues with the roof verges, he says they are cracking and pieces are 
falling out and landing on the ground below. Amtrust declined the claim for these as they 
said there was no physical damage as required by the policy and the issue was restricted to 
the mortar. They also said the mortar falling was from a neighbours, rather than Mr Ds, roof.
Our investigator partially upheld this part of the complaint. He said Amtrust hadnt acted fairly 
by declining the claim on this basis. He said the claim mostly appeared to meet the claim 
criteria, so he said Amtrust should reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms. He 
didnt say at this stage that meant they should accept the claim or carry out repairs, because 
its not yet been established whether the cost of repairs would exceed the claim excess  
which is one of the claim criteria.
Amtrust didnt agree. They said the quote theyd been provided by Mr D was to replace all 
the pointing, rather than the affected areas only. They said the damage and fallen mortar 
was to Mr Ds neighbours home instead of his. So they said that there wasnt physical 
damage to Mr Ds property. Firstly I should say that I dont agree with Amtrusts view that the only falling mortar was from 
Mr Ds neighbours property. Mr D provided photos of cracked and missing mortar on his 
roof. Mr D also provided pictures of mortar which had fallen from his own roof onto the 
ground outside his property. I note Mr D did, as Amtrust say, provide images of mortar which 
had fallen from his neighbours roof too, but this was in addition to his own. And the purpose 
of this appears to be Mr D highlighting a wider issue with other houses on his development, 
suffering the same issue as his.
Section four of Mr Ds policy says:
Cover
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and notified to 
the Underwriter during the Period of Insurance in respect of:
1. The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which 
has been affected by Major Damage provided always that the liability of the 
Underwriter does not exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding each Housing Unit to 
its original specification.
2. The cost of making good any defect in the design material or workmanship in the 
drainage system which was newly constructed by the Builder in connection with the 
Housing Unit and for which the Policyholder is responsible.
3. The necessary and reasonable costs incurred in repairing, replacing or rectifying any 
part of the Waterproof Envelope within the Housing Unit as a result of ingress of 
water cause by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components or the 
waterproofing elements of the Housing Unit.
4. The cost of repairing or making good any defects in the chimneys and flues of the 
Housing Unit causing an imminent danger to health and safety of occupants. 
In the event of a claim under this section the Underwriter has the option either of paying the 
cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any damage resulting from items 1 to 4 above or 
itself arranging to have such damage corrected.
The policy defines major damage as:
Major Damage
Any defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of the Structure affecting or 
causing destruction or physical damage and/or affecting or causing an imminent instability of 
the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of Approval has been received by the Underwriter 
and which is first discovered during the Period of Insurance.
And it then goes on to define structure which includes:
Structure
The following elements comprising the Structure of the Housing Unit:
Roof covering
Any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the water-tightness 
of the external envelope
So for the claim for roof verges to be valid, they must be part of the structure of the home. 
And roof coverings, and external finishes necessary for the water-tightness, are both part of 
the structure. So Im satisfied the roof verges form part of the structure as defined in the 
terms.The next claim criteria is that there must be a defect in the design, workmanship or 
components thats affecting or causing destruction, physical damage or imminent instability. 
Amtrusts loss adjuster confirmed the failure of the verges is the result of poor workmanship 
and defective materials.
And as I say, Mr D has provided images of cracked and missing mortar on the roof and also 
images of mortar which has fallen from his roof. So Im satisfied there is a defect in the 
design, workmanship and components thats affecting or causing destruction and physical 
damage.
The next claim requirement is that the cost of repairing doesnt exceed the cost of rebuilding 
the house. Ive not been provided with evidence either way on this point, but it doesnt seem 
at all likely.
Amtrust declined the claim based on their opinion that there was no physical damage, but for 
the reasons outlined, I dont agree that this is fair and reasonable. Therefore, part of my 
direction will be for Amtrust to reconsider the roof verges claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
However, at this stage, I cant say that Amtrust need to deal with the claim or carry out 
repairs. This is because another claim requirement is that the cost exceeds the excess. And 
at this stage thats unknown.
Mr D received a quote in the region of £2,600, but that was to carry out works to the entire 
roof, along with investigating the water leak. So at this stage, the costs of repairing the 
insured parts specifically arent known or whether those costs would exceed the excess.
Mr D is unhappy more generally that an excess applies to the policy, but Ive commented 
separately on this wider point below. But here specifically in relation to the roof verges, its 
unknown whether the repair cost would be above the excess as Amtrust declined it on the 
basis there is no physical damage  which I disagree with. This is why Im directing Amtrust 
to reconsider this part of the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Water leak
Mr D raised concerns about a leak where water was entering his property, in the vicinity of 
the party wall. 
Mr D later arranged for tradesmen to attend. They didnt find evidence of wear and tear or 
external damage such as storm related damage. They gave differing views on possible 
causes, including defective workmanship which is potentially an insured event.
Our investigator partly upheld this aspect of the complaint. He said that Mr D had shown a 
potential insured event had occurred, and in the absence of anything at this stage showing 
another uninsured cause, and due to the complexity of investigation and costs, Amtrust 
should investigate the leak further. 
Amtrust didnt agree. They said the lead flashings are the likely cause, and this would be a 
separately identifiable cause, and subject to a separate excess.Whilst I note Amtrusts comments, here the actual cause hasnt been established. But Mr D 
has shown on balance that he has a potential valid claim as water is entering the waterproof 
envelope, which is a covered event subject to the remaining policy terms. Given the 
expertise needed in identifying the leak, and that Mr D has already attempted this via 
tradesmen - who didnt find any external damage which wouldnt be construction/defect 
related, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to investigate this further and 
establish if Mr D has a valid claim under his policy in line with the remaining terms. 
Ive also commented on the excess more generally further below. But at this stage it is 
unknown until investigation is carried out whether there will be a valid claim, including 
whether any repair costs are above the excess, this is why Im directing Amtrust to 
investigate further and reassess in line with the remaining terms.
Party wall
Mr D raised a potential problem with the structural integrity of his party wall, he says 
Amtrusts loss adjuster first raised this as an issue. Amtrust said they wouldnt consider it 
further until Mr Ds provided an independent structural engineer report. Mr D doesnt think he 
should have to arrange or pay for this as he says the problem was noticed and raised by 
Amtrust.
Our investigator didnt think Amtrusts position was reasonable. He said on balance, and 
based on the information provided, Amtrusts own loss adjuster identified the issue. So he 
said it would be fair for them to appoint a structural engineer to consider this claim point 
further.
Amtrust didnt agree. They said Mr D should arrange this, and if a claim is then valid, they 
will reimburse the costs. They also said they didnt identify any issues when they inspected 
and maintained it was Mr D that raised it.
Having considered things, on balance I think, as Mr D says and our investigator concluded, 
that it was Amtrusts loss adjuster that first identified the issue. The original inspection by the 
loss adjuster outlines the issues Mr D had already identified prior to the visit and some 
raised during the visit. The communication between Mr D and Amtrust shows Mr D 
questioning and raising concerns about the alleged structural integrity of the party wall issue 
and from this it doesnt appear he was the one that first raised it.
So I dont think Amtrusts approach here is reasonable given the circumstances. In addition, 
their own loss adjuster said they needed an expert view on things. But regardless of this, it 
appears they believe its likely an insured event has occurred as theyve concluded poor 
workmanship and it being built incorrectly. So, I dont think its then fair or reasonable for 
Amtrust to ask Mr D to take things over and investigate this further and to say hell then 
receive reimbursement if the claim is then found as valid.
If Amtrust werent able to establish this via its own expert in property construction and the 
policy coverage  the loss adjuster  I think it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for Amtrust to appoint a structural engineer in order to do this and to establish 
whether Mr D has a valid claim or it is excluded in line with the policy terms. 
Drainage
Mr D raised a claim for issues with his drainage. There are a lack of inspection and access 
points, and hes concerned about wider issues such as with the soakaway. Amtrust asked 
him to provide quotes to understand what was required. Following this Amtrust said the cost 
of repairs would fall below the excess.Our investigator considered this part of the complaint. He said Mr D had said the quote he 
obtained previously was only for a simple repair, but this likely wouldnt meet any regulations 
and hed understandably like a correct and effective repair. Our investigator said that he 
couldnt see Mr D had formally made a claim for this. But it did seem that hed done enough 
to show its potentially likely an insured event had occurred. So he said that if Mr D formally 
makes a claim for this by supplying the requested form and/or documents to Amtrust, they 
should investigate the drainage problems further and assess whether Mr D has a valid claim.
Amtrust said that the only quote theyd received was below the excess and Mr D hadnt 
proceeded with anything beyond that. Amtrust said that Mr D hadnt formally made a claim 
for the drainage issue and in previous correspondence theyd asked him to complete claim 
forms, but he hadnt. Mr D says he thinks hes provided enough and doesnt see why he 
should then be asked to complete claim forms to proceed with this.
As it seems that Mr D has shown a potential insured event has occurred, then if he proceeds 
with the claim Amtrust will need to consider this further in line with the remaining terms. But I 
dont think its unreasonable for Amtrust to ask Mr D to submit claims forms if they need 
them in order to proceed with the claim investigation. If Mr D does make a formal claim, I 
think Amtrust then need to investigate this and the required repairs further. 
Mr D has told Amtrust that hes been unable to find a competent tradesman who can provide 
a quote for the correct repairs. Hes also raised wider concerns that the drainage system 
might impact other properties on the development, which is something he cant really 
influence or make a decision on. 
Given the complexity, and that Mr D has been unable to obtain further quotes for the 
reasons hes given, I believe it would be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to further investigate 
to see if Mr D has a valid claim once hes made it, and completed any paperwork or forms 
Amtrust needs in order to proceed.
Windows
Mr D has claimed for windows which he says werent correctly installed as they are leaking, 
have issues with drainage and are illegal as hes been unable to locate a CE marking. He 
also says he thinks they were constructed in an illegal factory.
Amtrust referred to the snagging list which was completed by Mr D prior to the house 
purchase and which was given to the builder. As the windows were noted within this, 
Amtrust says Mr D knew about an issue with the windows prior to purchase. Theyve then 
declined the claim using the following exclusion within the policy:
Prior knowledge
Anything which would constitute a valid claim under the Policy and about which the 
Policyholder was aware prior to purchasing the Housing Unit.
Our investigator said that the exclusion is clearly outlined in the policy so Amtrust hasnt 
acted unfairly by declining this part of the claim. Mr D doesnt agree this is fair. 
In one of the arguments Mr D has presented as to why this isnt fair, hes referenced the date 
of the cover note and raising snagging after this. He says therefore this cant be prior 
knowledge as the cover note pre-dates snagging. But the policy terms outline the date of 
purchase is when this exclusion applies from, rather than when the cover note is issued.As the issue with the windows was identified and raised with the developer prior to the 
property purchase, I dont think Amtrust have acted unfairly by applying the exclusion.
Mr D is unhappy his policy has this exclusion in the first place. And hes also referenced the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), so thinks he should have a valid claim. Hes 
also unhappy this wasnt picked up during the inspections carried out before completion. Ill 
comment on these separately below. But in summary here in relation to the windows being 
claimed for, I dont think Amtrust has acted unfairly by declining this element of the claim 
based on the exclusion which is in Mr Ds policy terms.
Excess
Mr D is unhappy there is a £1,000 excess for each and every identified defect causing 
damage. He feels this is unfair as the majority of the issues present in his home would fall 
below this amount.
Our investigator said the policy terms outlined that a £1,000 excess would be payable. He 
also said the purpose of the policy is to provide cover against bigger problems with a 
property, not every issue. And this is why there is an excess of this amount.
Ive looked at the terms of the policy. These outline:
Excess
As noted on the Certificate of Insurance, the amount relating to each and every loss in 
respect of the Housing Unit below which the Underwriters have no liability under the policy. 
A separate Excess shall apply to each and every separately identifiable cause of loss or 
damage for which a payment is made under the policy by the Underwriter, regardless of 
whether more than one cause of loss is notified at the same time.
Whilst I do appreciate Mr Ds feelings on this, the policy is there to provide cover in the event 
of larger issues with a home. In fact, one of the requirements to the wider coverage is that 
there is major damage. Therefore, the policy is there to cover events which would be costly 
to rectify, or bigger issues, rather than small value problems. I dont think this is 
unreasonable.
Mr D also feels that there should be one excess applicable for several issues. However, the 
policy outlines that there is an excess payable for each and every separate identifiable 
caused of loss or damage. So its not unreasonable to treat different claimed issues 
separately, as thats in line with the policy terms.
But as Ive outlined above, Im directing Amtrust to reconsider the claim for roof verges, 
further investigate the water leak and party wall, and further investigate the drainage if Mr D 
formally makes a claim. And until this is completed, its not known whether there will be a 
valid claim more generally and if it will be above the excess or not. So at this stage I cant 
determine whether the excess will be applicable here yet or not. But overall, I dont think 
Amtrust would be acting outside the terms more generally, by applying an excess in line with 
them.
Existence of a prior knowledge exclusion in the policy
As Ive mentioned, Amtrust has declined to cover Mr Ds claim for his windows based on the 
prior knowledge exclusion within the policy. And for the reasons outlined, I dont think thats 
unreasonable.But Mr D is unhappy there is a prior knowledge exclusion in the policy in the first place. Hes 
made a comparison to a number of other policies available on the open market which dont 
have this specific exclusion, or contain a variation of it, or more detailed exclusion which 
wouldnt apply to Mr Ds claims if he had that policy. Mr D has also said that listing snagging 
is a common part of the sales process, and he was advised to by both his solicitor and the 
developer.
Our investigator said that whilst he has sympathy for the position Mr D is in, the policy terms 
clearly outline this exclusion. He also said that whilst Mr D has mentioned other policies 
which dont have this type of exclusion, Mr Ds policy does.
I agree with our investigator here. Whats key is which exclusions Mr Ds policy has. I 
acknowledge the examples Mr D has provided of other policies available with other providers 
containing different exclusions. And that some similar policies have variations of a similar but 
slightly different exclusion, but the important point here is that Mr Ds policy does have this 
exclusion. 
The exclusion is outlined in the full policy terms and I dont think thats unreasonable (or 
Amtrust has unreasonably relied on it in relation to Mr Ds windows). Mr D has also raised 
concerns about this exclusion not being in the IPID, but Ill comment on that separately 
below. 
The IPID and the policy being allegedly mis-sold
Mr D has raised concerns about the IPID for his policy. He says this doesnt outline the prior 
knowledge exclusion. And it also says there is cover for health and safety issues where 
there is a breach of building regulations, but thats not covered in the full policy terms. He 
thinks the documents are misleading. Mr D says that during the sale, Amtrust have provided 
misleading documents and the policy has therefore been mis-sold on this basis. 
Mr D says that if the IPID contained the exclusion for prior knowledge he wouldnt have 
carried out a snagging list, and he also says he wouldnt have purchased his house either. 
He also commented on other IPIDs from other providers.
Our investigator said that the policy was sold to the developer by Amtrust, so Mr D wasnt 
part of the sale, so he couldnt have been mis-sold it. 
He also said that even if the IPID contained different information such as the exclusion, he 
didnt think that wouldve changed anything. He said its likely Mr D would still have 
completed snagging as he thought it important at the time as he was hopeful the builder 
wouldve fixed the issues (which they did for some of the problems raised). He also said its 
the responsibility of the policyholder to read the full policy documents, and the cover was 
outlined in this, whereas the IPID is designed to help the purchaser to decide whether to 
take out the policy in the first instance, and that was the developer, not Mr D. Our 
investigator also said he wouldnt be commenting on other providers IPIDs.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view of things.
I appreciate Mr Ds strength of feelings on the matter. But as outlined to Mr D by our 
investigator, he didnt purchase the policy. He didnt have discussion with Amtrust about 
which warranty to buy, the suitability of it or decide to proceed with the one he has on that 
basis, or on the basis of the documents provided.Instead the developer purchased the policy. When Mr D then purchased his home, he was 
given the policy alongside this. So Mr D wasnt part of the sale process. Therefore, Mr D 
couldnt have been mis-sold the policy by Amtrust.
One of the wider considerations around a mis-sale would be what would the purchaser of the 
policy have done differently if for example it did contain that exclusion, or didnt include the 
information about health and safety. But the buyer wasnt Mr D, it was the developer. Mr D 
didnt have any influence or say on the policy he was provided, or rely on the documents in 
order to make that decision to go ahead with the policy, it was given to him with his house 
purchase.
Mr D says that the IPID meant he went ahead with the purchase of his home. And he doesnt 
think he should be expected to read the full terms. But here Mr D was buying a property 
which came with a warranty. And Mr D couldve reviewed the full policy terms if the warranty 
coverage was a key point for him in considering whether to buy the property. The policy 
terms outline that the complete policy is made up of the terms and the policy certificate  and 
Mr D couldve raised questions about this if he wanted to before going ahead with his house 
purchase. He also notes that his solicitor didnt pick up on this point either. 
I recognise what Mr D says about the IPID but the fact remains that he wasnt sold the 
policy, and it was transferred to him when he bought his property. Any complaint about mis-
selling would need to be made by the purchaser (the developer), only they know what they 
would have done differently if as Mr D says, the documents were different. And only they will 
know whether they were aware of the policy cover or limitations when they purchased it.
I also share the same view as our investigator, that even if the IPID outlined the prior 
knowledge exclusion, snagging was clearly something Mr D hoped would be resolved by the 
developer (and some issues were) so its likely, given as he says he was told to complete 
this by his solicitor and developer, that he still wouldve gone ahead with it.
I also wont be commenting on other policies available with other providers or their 
documentation, as Im considering Mr Ds policy here.
Inspection before completion
Mr D has raised concerns about the inspections carried out during the build. He doesnt think 
these were carried out correctly, and he says key issues with the property were missed 
during inspection. He says that as a result of this failure, he now needs to make claims 
under the policy.
Mr D complains that the process wasnt correctly followed, or who actually carried out the 
inspections wasnt the right person, which then resulted in the policy coming into force. Hes 
also referred to other terms in a different version of the policy to the one he has.
Our investigator was satisfied that Amtrust had acted fairly by relying on the information they 
had in order to decide whether to issue the policy. He also said that the terms Mr D had 
referred to werent the terms or definitions of his policy. He also said if he was to share 
Mr Ds views, then technically there wouldnt be any cover in place at all as per the terms.
The policy terms say:
For this Policy to be binding
After a satisfactory final inspection has been carried out by the Site Audit Surveyor and 
reported to the Scheme Administrator a Certificate of Insurance will be issued, if requested, 
confirming cover under the policy.And then go on to say:
Site Audit Surveyor
The surveyor/s appointed by the Administrator who carries out checks and inspections solely 
on Underwriters behalf and who prior to the issue of the Certificate of Insurance by the 
Underwriter issues a Certificate of Approval. 
Ive thought about Mr Ds arguments here. The general purpose of considering the 
inspections before completion are so the underwriter can be satisfied that they can provide a 
warranty and to establish the risk in doing so. Mr D argues that it should be a particular team 
from the administrator who completes these. But the terms as Ive outlined dont say who 
this will be specifically completed by. And the inspection(s) isnt a guarantee there will be no 
defects with the home which is an argument Mr D has made. If that was the case and it was 
guaranteeing there to be no defects at all, that would render the policy itself redundant as 
there would never be a defect to potentially claim for.
Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that Amtrust has acted fairly here. Theyve relied on 
the information theyve chosen to in order to issue cover. Inspections were completed by 
Building Control and they issued a final certificate of approval. So I dont think Amtrust has 
acted unfairly if they decided to accept the insurance risk and issue a policy on this basis. 
The additional terms Mr D has mentioned in presenting his argument are for a different 
policy, so arent relevant here.
I should also note that if I was to share Mr Ds views (which I dont for the reasons outlined) 
that there were process failings and that someone else shouldve inspected before the policy 
went ahead, then as per the terms, the policy effectively would never have been issued. That 
would be the remedy to place things back in the position prior to this. This would put Mr D in 
a considerably worse position than he is now, having a policy in place, albeit it doesnt cover 
everything Mr D would like it to. And Mr D has said hed be very worried if he didnt have a 
policy in place at thats a requirement of his mortgage.
Our investigator also said that he couldnt consider the action of Building Control specifically 
signing off construction or health and safety issues relating to contractors such as Gas 
tradesmen as this isnt a regulated activity in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook and 
DISP rules. I agree with our investigator here, I can only consider regulated activities and 
here I can only consider whether Amtrust acted reasonably in relying on the information they 
had.
Lender approval
Mr D says his warranty is on his lenders approved list. And he wonders if theyve been mis-
led into the policy being more comprehensive than it is, based on his views of things. But if 
Mr Ds lender feels its been mis-led, theyd need to raise that with Amtrust. Thats not 
something I can comment on here as part of Mr Ds complaint.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to:
Reconsider the roof verges part of the claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Investigate the water leak to establish if there is a valid claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms
Appoint a structural engineer to establish whether there is a valid claim in line with 
the remaining terms for the party wall
Investigate the drainage claim to establish if there is a valid claim in line with the 
remaining terms, subject to Mr D making a formal claim and submitting the requested 
forms and/or documentation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman