DRN-3814778
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt tell him the 
promotional interest rate on his account had ended and also complains about account 
access.
What happened
Mr E says he opened a Virgin Money credit card account with a promotional 0% interest 
offer. He says he thought that interest rate offer ended in early 2022. Mr E says he used to 
receive e-mails from Virgin Money about his account but following a change it made to its 
online services, he was unable to view his account. He says he had problems using Virgin 
Moneys application (app) and when he was able to use it, realised he had been charged 
over £450 in interest. Mr E would like that amount refunded and would like compensation. 
He says Virgin Money knew he couldnt access his account and ought to have told him the 
interest rate had changed.
Virgin Money says the account was opened in 2019 with an 18-month promotional rate offer. 
It says it told all customers in in early 2021 that its online services were being replaced by its 
banking app. Virgin Money says Mr E agreed to the account terms and conditions and it was 
his responsibility to manage the account. It says he could have asked for paper statements 
and the previous statements he would have received also had details of the promotional 
interest rate end date.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr E would have agreed to the account terms and conditions, which included the 
end of the promotional rate, when the account was first opened. And thought Virgin Money 
had not made a mistake.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and says Virgin Money accepts it must tell customers about 
the change in interest rate and maintains it knew he didnt have account access.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions and account opening information Mr E 
would have seen as well as agreed to when the account was first opened in 2019. Those 
terms and conditions and opening information all make clear the interest free periods and 
make clear that interest would be charged from May 2021. I appreciate Mr E may have 
thought the interest free period ended in 2022 but that is not something I can fairly hold 
Virgin Money responsible for. And I think it had been made clear to Mr E when the end date 
was when the account was opened and that it was his responsibility to manage his account. 
Im satisfied that the promotional interest rate end dates were clearly contained and visible 
on the account statements which Mr E ought to have read and noticed even if he was unable 
to see his later statements from early 2021.
I appreciate Mr E was unable to download the Virgin Money banking app until sometime 
after he was unable to use online banking for account access. But I think that Mr E could 
have contacted Virgin Money by other means and asked it for example to send him paper 
statements. I dont think it clear why Mr E didnt contact Virgin Money far sooner than he did 
about the access issue. I have made clear in any event that this was Mr Es account and that 
he ought reasonably to have known when the interest rate changed.
I also appreciate Mr E says Virgin Money accepts it has a duty to tell customers in advance 
of the end of any promotional period. I have made clear that I think Virgin Money did tell Mr 
E in a variety of ways and is entitled to conclude a customer is aware of such dates from the 
statements that were received and the opening account information. And I can see that it 
has made clear in the statements before the change that the interest rate was due to 
change. I accept that Mr E was unable to see those statements but have made clear he 
ought to have known about that date and ought to have requested paper statements for 
example if he knew he couldnt view his statements.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman