DRN-3267791
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the redress Scottish Widows Limited calculated and paid him after it 
discovered an error it had made in respect of his pension. 
What happened
Mr D had a pension with Scottish Widows from which he took retirement benefits in August 
2013.
In September 2020 Scottish Widows wrote to Mr D and explained it had made an error when 
he took his pension savings in 2013. It said that his policy had included a protected tax-free 
cash benefit. And this meant he couldve taken more than 25% of the value as tax free cash. 
So, hed potentially paid tax on a larger amount than he needed to. Scottish Widows 
calculated Mr D shouldve been entitled to an additional £141.87 tax free. So, it estimated 
hed paid an additional £28.38 in tax  assuming he was a basic rate taxpayer. 
To put things right Scottish Widows said it would refund the additional tax Mr D had 
potentially paid and pay simple interest on this at 8% per annum from the point of the error to 
the point the error had been discovered. It said it would need to deduct tax from the interest 
payment. Scottish Widows sent Mr D a cheque for £41.68.
Mr D complained to Scottish Widows about it deducting tax, totalling £3.32, from the interest 
payment.
Scottish Widows said it didnt think it was wrong to deduct tax from the compensatory 
interest it had paid as it believed this was required by HMRC. And it said this approach was 
in line with what our service generally recommended. It did though offer Mr D £200 for the 
distress caused when he had become aware of the poor service provided previously and for 
the delay in dealing with his complaint.
Mr D asked our service to consider the complaint. He said he didnt think tax should be 
applied to the interest, Scottish Widows hadnt been able to quote HMRC requirements for 
this and he felt our external guidance on this was unclear. He also didnt feel that the rate of 
8% simple interest was appropriate for the length of time he had been without the extra tax 
and felt compound interest should be used. And he added he was unhappy that this amount 
had not been recovered from HMRC.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint but felt the offer made by Scottish 
Widows was fair and in line with our usual approach. 
Mr D did not agree. He said he still did not think tax shouldve been deducted from the 
interest paid and didnt think HMRC required this. And he remained unhappy with the use of 
8% simple interest in the compensation calculation.
As Mr D did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is worth reiterating the role of our service is to informally review and decide 
individual disputes on a fair and reasonable basis. We arent a regulator. And our awards are 
not intended to fine or punish a business. Rather, we look at what has happened in the 
specific circumstances of a complaint and decide whether a business has made an error. 
And if we think a business has done something wrong, we look to put the consumer, as 
close as possible, back in the position they wouldve been in had that error not happened.
Scottish Widows acknowledged that it made an error in 2013, when Mr D took retirement 
benefits from his pension. So, there isnt any dispute that an error has been made. What is 
left for me to decide is whether what Scottish Widows offered to do to address this error was 
fair. 
Scottish Widows estimated that its error caused Mr D to pay additional tax and based the 
calculation of how much on him being a basic rate taxpayer. I dont think this assumption 
was unreasonable and I havent seen anything to indicate that Scottish Widows has been 
provided any information to disprove this assumption. It calculated that Mr D was likely to 
have paid £28.38 more in tax than he should have. And it offered to refund this amount  
putting Mr D back in the position he wouldve been in. So, I think this was fair. Mr D has 
mentioned that an equivalent amount has been retained by HMRC. But I dont think it is 
unreasonable that Scottish Widows chose to accept the loss and refund the money to Mr D 
itself.
Scottish Widows acknowledged Mr D had been without this money for a number of years, so 
it also offered to pay interest on this amount for that time. Which I again think was fair.
It offered to pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum. And it said that this was in line 
with what our service would generally recommend  which is correct. We generally 
recommend the use of this rate as we think it fairly estimates the cost of not being able to 
use money that would otherwise have been available. So, it is in line with our intention of 
putting consumers back in the position they would otherwise have been in. And this rate is in 
line with statutory interest on judgment debts. 
Mr D has said he doesnt agree with this level of award or that we dont recommend 
compound interest. But while I understand he doesnt agree, I havent seen anything that 
leads me to think we should depart from our usual approach in respect of his individual 
complaint.
Scottish Widows deducted tax of £3.32 from the interest it paid. Mr D says he doesnt agree 
with this or think it is fair. And he doesnt think this is required by HMRC. But I dont think 
Scottish Widows has acted unreasonably. 
Where we award interest, this is usually taxable as income. It isnt for us to decide 
someones individual tax position. Rather we leave it to the business to decide whether to 
deduct tax from an award. And in the event it does, we expect the business to provide 
information to allow a consumer to reclaim tax from HMRC if appropriate  which is what 
Scottish Widows has done here. So again, I think what it has done is in line with what we 
would usually recommend.
Mr D feels we should change our general position on this and that interest should not be 
considered income. But while I understand he doesnt agree; I again havent seen anything that leads me to think following our established general approach, which is based on our 
experience of handling significant volumes of complaints over a long period, is unreasonable 
in his complaint. And his individual taxation position is something hed need to discuss with 
HMRC. 
So, taking all of this into account, I think what Scottish Widows has offered to address the 
error it made in 2013, and the impact of this on Mr D, is fair and reasonable.
I understand Scottish Widows sent Mr D a cheque for the compensation it had calculated. 
But he may not have cashed this. If that is the case, I think it is fair that Scottish Widows 
should re-issue this payment. But I dont think it needs to add further interest as the offer 
was fair at the point it was made.
In addition, Scottish Widows also paid Mr D £200, made up of £150 for the distress caused 
by learning of the error it made, and £50 for the delay in handling his complaint. I 
acknowledge it wouldve been upsetting for Mr D to have been told in September 2020 that 
an error had been made previously. But he wasnt caused ongoing distress from the point of 
the original error. And Scottish Widows acted promptly to resolve the matter. So, I also 
consider this offer to be fair. And I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman