DRN-4263945
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declining a claim 
under their home insurance policy for damage to a chimney at their property. 
Great Lakes use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Great 
Lakes includes these agents.
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs M and Mr M contacted Great Lakes to lodge a claim for damage to a 
chimney at their property. They said theyd been told by a contractor working at a 
neighbouring property that a chimney at the property was damaged and required a support 
rod. The damage was believed to have been caused at some point by bad weather (high 
winds) in the area.
Great Lakes treated the claim as one or storm damage. However, they couldnt find any 
indication of storm (high winds) in the period before Mrs M and Mr M told them about the 
damage. So, they declined the claim as there hadnt been a storm that would constitute an 
insured peril under the policy. 
Mrs M and Mr M challenged the decline of their claim, saying there had been three 
occasions of bad weather in the year and the damage could have accumulated over the 
period. As Mrs M and Mr M couldnt provide a precise date the damage occurred, Great 
Lakes carried out weather checks for the previous six months but still couldnt identify any 
significant weather events in the area of the property that would have caused the damage to 
the chimney. 
Great Lakes also noted the construction of the chimney stack being tall (given the age of the 
property) and from publicly available pictures of the property they observed the chimney was 
leaning. Due to the height of the chimney, they thought it should have had a brace support 
(support rod). They noted a neighbouring property with a similar chimney had such a support 
rod. Based on this, Great Lakes also declined the claim on the grounds of defective 
construction or design (an exclusion in the policy).
Mrs M and Mr M then complained to Great Lakes about the decline of their claim. But Great 
Lakes didnt uphold it. In their final response they said the policy didnt cover damage that 
occurred gradually over time, referring to a policy exclusion for wear and tear. Having 
reviewed the claim, as they didnt think the damage was caused by a one-off [storm] event 
and there being no storm conditions in the previous six months, Great Lakes confirmed their 
decline of the claim.
Mrs M and Mr M then complained to this service, saying Great Lakes had unfairly declined 
their claim. They thought the damage had been caused by a combination of high winds. 
Theyd paid £4,200 to have the chimney repaired and wanted Great Lakes to cover the cost.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Great Lakes didnt need to take any 
action. Weather reports indicated a storm in the area of Mrs M and Mr Ms property in 
February 2022. The investigator noted the specialist view chimneys of the type at Mrs M and 
Mr Ms property often required additional; support and can lean due to the expansion of 
eroded mortar joints. Based on this, the investigator concluded the damage to the chimney 
had occurred gradually over time. So, Great Lakes hadnt acted unfairly in applying the wear 
and tear exclusion to decline the claim.
Mrs M and Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They said their property had been well maintained, 
including repointing to the chimney (the other chimneys hadnt required any work or support 
bard). And Great Lakes hadnt provided sufficient evidence to support their view the damage 
wasnt caused by one of the storms in the area that year. Not all chimneys in the area had 
support rods, and other properties in the area hadnt been maintained to the same high 
standard as theirs had been (so it was unfair to make comparisons). Had they not sold the 
property, any necessary chimney restoration work would have been completed in 2022 
(though they thought it unlikely a support bar would have been needed). 
They also thought changing weather patterns and more frequent storms could have affected 
the chimney (and there were several storms between January and November 2022). No 
damage was visible from the ground, and it was only closer examination which identified the 
possible need for a support bar. And had there been damage due to wear and tear, they 
would have expected it to have led to damage (by water penetration) to the internal wall 
below the chimney. But there was no such damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say that I appreciate what Mrs M and Mr M have told us about their 
circumstances, particularly those of Mr M and his health. I know this will be very worrying 
and Ive borne this in mind when deciding, as is my role here, whether Great Lakes have 
acted fairly towards Mrs M and Mr M.
The main element of Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint is that Great Lakes unfairly declined their 
claim, on the grounds that the damage to their chimney wasnt caused by a [one off] storm 
event, as there werent storm conditions in the period up to when Mrs M and Mr M notified 
them of the damage. Rather it happened gradually over time, so wouldnt be covered due to 
the policy exclusion for wear and tear (damage that happened gradually). Mrs M and Mr M 
say their property was well-maintained and the damage was the result of high winds. 
While this is the main issue (and the one referred to in Great Lakes final response) a second 
issue, referred to in their initial decline of the claim, was the defective construction of the 
chimney. Great Lakes referred to a policy exclusion for defective construction, saying the 
chimney should have had a support rod (given a neighbouring, similar property had such a 
support rod to a chimney). Mrs M and Mr M dont agree the chimney should have had a 
support rod, saying it was in good condition and none of their other chimneys had an issue 
(or needed a support rod). 
In considering the first issue, in cases of claims for storm damage, there are three key 
questions we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?On the first question, in their final response Great Lakes said they checked weather reports 
for the six-month period leading up to the date Mrs M and Mr M notified them of the damage 
(as they couldnt provide an exact date the damage occurred, or likely to have occurred). 
Great Lakes said the reports didnt indicate any weather conditions they would consider to 
be storm conditions. As such, there wasnt an insured event (peril) and so the claim wouldnt 
be covered. Mrs M and Mr M say there were three periods of bad weather during the year, 
and that they might have cumulatively caused the damage.
Having looked at the weather data from the weather firm used by this service, I can see 
there were storm conditions in February 2022 (at the time of the recognised Storm Eunice). 
While this falls within 2022 (as referenced by Mrs M and Mr M) it is over seven months 
before the date Mrs M and Mr M reported the damage to the chimney. Mrs M and Mr M say 
the damage to the chimney wasnt visible (from the ground) and the circumstances would 
indicate there was no other damage to the property (if, for example, part of the chimney had 
been dislodged and caused damage to the roof or other part of the property). 
Taking these points together, Im not persuaded there were storm conditions at the time Mrs 
M and Mr M notified Great Lakes of the damage (November 2022). Nor am I persuaded its 
likely any damage was the result of storm conditions at the time of Storm Eunice (and not 
visible or otherwise noticeable). 
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive considered the other evidence available about the 
damage. During our service considering Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint, they commissioned a 
report from an engineer about the nature of the damage to the chimney and what may have 
caused it. The report reaches the following conclusions:
With regard to the three tall chimney stacks serving this property noted as leaning, 
all show visual deflection in their height. The following provides a summary on the 
possible causes for the deflection as noted.
One common cause for a leaning chimney is from the expansion of eroded mortar 
joints. If the surface of the chimney stack is exposed to the prevailing wind, constant 
wetting can result in the expansion of mortar joints therefore causing the stack to 
lean away from the wind. This is prominent on the cold windward side of the stack, as 
it is wetter from the rain.
The engineers conclusions dont indicate the damage (whenever it may have occurred) was 
likely to have been the result of a one-off storm event (even if it was thought to result from 
Storm Eunice). The conclusions are consistent with damage (the lean) occurring gradually 
over time. Ive also noted the conclusion refers to three stacks at the property all leaning, 
which would also be consistent with something happening gradually over time  not the 
result of a one-off storm event. 
Given these conclusions, I dont think the nature of the damage is (taking the second of the 
three questions we consider) consistent with the damage a storm typically causes. That 
being the case, its also fair to say (in answer to the third question) storm conditions werent 
the main or dominant cause of the damage.
In their final response, Great Lakes refer to the following exclusion in the policy booklet:
Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused directly or indirectly 
by or resulting from wear and tearor anything which happens graduallyWe wont pay for claims that are a result of wear and tear or anything that happens 
gradually.
Given my conclusions above about the likely nature and cause of the damage occurring 
gradually over time, then I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to have applied the exclusion 
to decline the claim.
As Ive reached this conclusion, Ive not considered the other exclusion for defective 
construction or design any further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman