DRN-3580048
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided bank account 
statements to his former partner  that Ill refer to as Ms S - who wasnt entitled to receive 
them. And that, because of this, Ms S received about £65,000 of Mr Ms pension benefits 
instead of it going to the nominated beneficiaries.
The estate of Mr M is represented by his brother, who Ill refer to as Mr A.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr M sadly died in August 2020. Ms S called Barclays in January 2021 requesting bank 
account statements. Barclays sent Ms S statements for accounts that were in Mr Ms sole 
name. 
In July 2021 Mr A complained to Barclays about the statements being sent to Ms S, saying 
she wasnt entitled to receive them  which he considered to be a breach of General Data 
Protection Regulations (GDPR). Mr A explained that Ms S used the statements to evidence 
financial dependency with Mr Ms pension provider and was awarded about £65,000 of his 
pension benefits. Mr A considered Barclays responsible for this and wanted them to pay this 
amount as compensation.
Barclays partly upheld the complaint. In short, they said:
They were sorry for their error in sending Ms S copy statements of Mr Ms bank 
accounts. Their adviser wrongly believed Ms S was the informant of Mr Ms passing 
or an executor of the estate. As she is neither, she wasnt entitled to any information 
about Mr Ms accounts. 
Senior management were aware of the complaint and feedback was given to the 
adviser, with a view to preventing similar mistakes occurring again. 
They confirmed no other information about Mr Ms accounts has been disclosed to 
Ms S, or anyone else, other than Mr A. 
As Mr M had passed away, the GDPR no longer apply and so they couldnt agree a 
breach occurred. That said, they should still protect and maintain confidentiality of the 
information they hold about Mr Ms accounts.
They couldnt agree to pay the £65,000 as they considered Ms S couldve gathered 
the information about Mr Ms account via the courts. 
They offered £500 as an apology for their error. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think 
Barclays had to do anything further. In short, she said:
GPDR doesnt apply after someone dies. That said, Barclays did have a duty to 
handle Mr Ms information appropriately and they accept they made an error in 
providing the statements to Ms S. She didnt however think how this error came 
about had a bearing on the effects of it, so she considered the impact of this error on 
the estate. 
She noted Mr As points as to why he thought the statements were the sole reason 
Ms S received an award of his brothers pension benefits. But she couldnt be certain 
that Ms S wouldnt have been considered a beneficiary of Mr Ms pension had it not 
been for Barclays error. She thought it was possible Ms S may have been able to 
demonstrate financial dependency without the statements. 
It was at the discretion of the pension provider to determine how the benefits were 
paid and she couldnt determine what information the pension provider relied on 
when they made their decision. 
She considered the pension provider exercised their judgement on a multifactorial 
basis. And that the statements being sent to Ms S were unlikely, on balance, the key 
factor in the pension provider applying their discretionary decision in making the 
£65,000 award. 
The Financial Ombudsman cant award compensation for non-financial loss to an 
executor or an estate. 
Mr A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, hes said:
A more complete account into how Barclays came to provide the statements to Ms S 
is needed. He thought our investigator failed to address key issues about this. 
Mr M was of the clear view that he and Ms S were financially independent. And that a 
financial planning review completed prior to his pension being transferred to the 
pension provider says You told me that yourself and [Ms S] are financially 
independent of each other and pay half of each of your household bills.
Mr Ms expression of wish form with the pension provider specified that he wanted 
the death benefits to be split equally between his three children. Ms S was not a 
nominated beneficiary. 
The pension provider doesnt have absolute discretion in determining the 
beneficiaries. As Ms S and Mr M werent married, she could only qualify  under the 
policy conditions and scheme rules  as a beneficiary if she were financially 
dependent on Mr M while his pension benefits were with the policy provider in 
question. 
Hed shown that the only evidence Ms S provided the pension provider that could 
possibly have led to the view of financial dependency were the bank account 
statements.
He thought the investigators conclusion that the pension provider exercised their 
judgement on a multifactorial basis  and not just on the statements  was irrational. 
And that the investigator had failed to provide evidence to support this, or her 
reasoning as to why she couldnt say with certainty that Barclays mistake hadnt led 
to the award being made to Ms S.
If any other conclusion is reached then it must be clearly identified what other 
evidence couldve been used by the pension provider otherwise it would be 
reasonable to conclude that it was the statements that led to the award. There were 
no other factors at play.  
The £500 offer from Barclays is pitiful and in no way compensates for the distress 
and difficulties the error has caused. It doesnt even cover the legal costs incurred 
which he approximates to be in the region of £1,000 each of the beneficiaries and the 
estate. 
The Financial Ombudsman said in another decision that compensation for non-
financial loss can be awarded to an estate.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that it will have been a very difficult time for Mr A, and his family, following 
Mr Ms death. I also dont underestimate how important this matter is to Mr A and so I want 
to reassure him that Ive given everything hes said careful consideration. But, having done 
so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Barclays wrongly provided Ms S with copies of Mr Ms 
bank account statements. This has been accepted by Barclays and theyve explained that it 
happened due to human error. I understand Mr A thinks further consideration of how this 
error came about is needed. But, given Barclays accepts responsibility for the error, I dont 
think that would be of any further benefit. This is because Im satisfied Barclays has 
sufficiently explained the human error  in that their adviser wrongly assumed Ms S was 
entitled to receive the statements  and, more importantly, I think its the impact of the error 
thats most relevant here. Ive therefore focussed my consideration of the complaint on this.
The pension provider was required to consider potential beneficiaries of Mr Ms policy in line 
with the scheme rules. And the pension provider has confirmed that, after the eligible 
beneficiaries had been identified, they made all reasonable enquiries with the potential 
beneficiaries and investigation of all the relevant facts. They then applied their discretion 
and awarded Ms S the sum of about £65,000. 
The reasoning behind the pension providers decision to determine Ms S as a beneficiary 
isnt known. This is because, due to data protection, they cant share information about Ms S 
without her consent. Mr A however has set out, in detail, the reasons why he considers the 
only evidence Ms S provided the pension provider that could possibly have led to the view of 
financial dependency were the statements. And so, because of this, he considers Barclays 
are responsible for the financial loss the beneficiaries have suffered as result of the £65,000 
being paid to Ms S. 
At this point, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that Im not considering the pension 
providers decision to award Ms S the £65,000 as part of this complaint. Nor am I 
determining how Mr Ms pension benefits shouldve been paid. Any concerns in this respect 
will need to be raised by the beneficiaries with the pension provider. But rather, Ive 
considered the impact of the statements being sent to Ms S. And, although Ive carefully 
considered Mr As reasoning, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Ms S wouldnt have been 
considered a beneficiary  and therefore not received the £65,000 - had it not been for 
Barclays sending her the statements in error. Ill explain why.
The pension provider had the discretion to make an award to a beneficiary that wasnt 
nominated by Mr M. Albeit, as Mr A says, this discretion wasnt absolute as the pension 
provider had to apply it in line with the scheme rules. But, as Ive explained, Im not privy to 
the pension providers reasons for their decision or the evidence they relied on in making 
that decision. So, although Mr A thinks it was only the bank statements that showed Ms S 
was financially dependent on Mr M, I dont know how the statements, or any other information provided by Ms S, was interpreted by the pension provider. And, as Ive said, its 
not for me to decide how the pension provider ought to have paid Mr Ms pension benefits.
I think its also relevant to add that, even if the statements were an important part of the 
pension providers decision, Im not persuaded this necessarily means Barclays is 
responsible for the alleged £65,000 loss to the nominated beneficiaries. This is because, as 
Barclays have said, Ms S may have been able to obtain the statements through the courts 
anyway  and therefore been able to submit them to the pension provider for their 
consideration. Its also possible that Ms S may have been able to demonstrate financial 
dependency through other means than the account statements  but the relevance of what 
evidence was needed from Ms S wouldve been a decision for the pension provider to make 
(and so I cant speculate on that here). 
I know Mr A feels very strongly about this matter but I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
Barclays error in sending Mr Ms account statements to Ms S led to the nominated 
beneficiaries receiving £65,000 less from the pension benefits.
Barclays has accepted that they shouldnt have sent the statements to Ms S and offered 
£500 compensation. Mr A doesnt think this amount is enough to reflect the distress and 
difficulties the error caused. While Im sympathetic to Mr As situation, as our investigator 
explained, Im unable to award compensation for non-financial loss here. This is because the 
eligible complainant under our rules is Mr M, and not Mr A who is the person authorised by 
law to act on behalf of the estate. It follows that, as Mr M has passed away, its not possible 
for him to have experienced any trouble and upset because of what happened. Sadly, the 
error caused has led to inconvenience for Mr A who, as Ive said, isnt the eligible 
complainant. 
Ive noted Mr As reference to a decision made by one of our Ombudsman on another 
complaint that he thinks demonstrates compensation for non-financial loss can be awarded 
to the estate. Ive looked at this but I disagree. I think, in that decision, the Ombudsman 
considers the amount already offered  and which remains available - to be fair and 
reasonable. So, he put that offer to the estate to decide whether to accept it or not. 
I likewise consider the amount of £500 to be reasonable here and so it is for the estate to 
decide whether to accept it. If it does, then it should contact Barclays directly.
On a final note, Im aware Mr A has referred to legal costs that he says have been incurred 
due to Barclays error. The Financial Ombudsman is a free alternative dispute resolution 
service to the courts. And so, while the estate of Mr M and the nominated beneficiaries of his 
pension policy are within their rights to seek legal advice, Im not persuaded it was 
necessary in order to raise the complaint with Barclays or refer it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. I think it was possible to do so without incurring legal costs and so, I dont 
think Barclays is responsible for them.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr A is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Barclays has to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman