DRN-3447652
The complaint
Ms Z complains about her broker, Bruce Stevenson Insurance Brokers Limited (Bruce 
Stevenson). Ms Z is unhappy at how Bruce Stevenson only offered two options when she 
took out insurance cover for renovations carried out at her property.
This decision only covers the role of Bruce Stevenson in arranging Ms Zs policy. Ms Z made 
a separate complaint about the premiums charged for her policy by the insurer (PL). That 
complaint was the subject of a separate decision by this service.
What happened
Ms Z had a property on which she took out home insurance with an insurer (PR) in 
November 2020 at a premium of £1,389. Ms Z then wanted to carry out renovation work at 
the property, originally scheduled to start in February 2021 and complete in August 2021. Ms 
Z contacted Bruce Stevenson to tell them of the planned renovation work, initially asking to 
cancel her home insurance policy as she thought the contractors would take over the 
insurance of the property whilst the renovation work was carried out. Bruce Stevenson 
queried whether the contractors would cover the existing structure of the property (as 
opposed to the renovation work theyd be carrying out).
Ms Z then discussed the position with her architect who advised the building would still need 
to be covered, but in joint names of Ms Z and the contractor. Bruce Stevenson referred the 
issue to PR, who said they wouldnt provide cover for the existing structure of a building with 
the contractor as a joint named policyholder. PR advised the existing policy would need to 
be cancelled and alternative cover arranged elsewhere. Ms Z then asked Bruce Stevenson 
to provide suitable quotes from insurers.
Bruce Stevenson approached one of the insurers on the panel they used (PL) who quoted 
£3,240. Ms Z thought the quote was too high and asked for alternative quotes. Bruce 
Stevenson approached a second insurer from the panel, but they refused to quote because 
of the nature of the contract for the renovation work. A quote of £3,138 was obtained from 
another insurer on the panel. Together with PR, these were the only four insurers available 
to Bruce Stevenson who would cover properties undergoing renovation work. Ms Z was 
unhappy at the cost of the quotes and discussed the position with Bruce Stevenson. They 
advised the cost was due to the estimate rebuild value of the property (£1 million), the 
estimated cost of the renovation works (£426,000) and the fact that a specialist policy was 
necessary because of the higher level of risk where a property is renovated.
Ms Z then told Bruce Stevenson to take out the policy with PL. Subsequently, the renovation 
work took longer than planned. To maintain cover, extensions of the policy were taken out, 
first to October 2021 (at an additional cost of £1,129) and second, to December 2021 (at an 
additional cost of £1,005).
Unhappy at the cost of the premiums (including the two extensions of cover) Ms B 
complained to PL, who didnt uphold her complaint. Ms Z then complained to this service 
about Bruce Stevenson, unhappy at only being provided with two (very similar) quotes for 
the cover she required. Because Ms Z hadnt complained to Bruce Stevenson before 
complaining to this service, we asked Bruce Stevenson to consider Ms Zs complaint in the 
first instance.
Bruce Stevenson didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they said theyd found 
no evidence theyd acted unfairly towards Ms Z. Theyd obtained quotes from the panel of 
insurers they use who could provide cover for properties undergoing renovation work. Two 
declined to quote, which Bruce Stevenson advised Ms Z, while they provided the quotes 
from the two insurers that were willing to provide cover. Ms Z accepted the quote from PL 
and cover was taken out. Similarly, quotes for extensions of cover were subsequently 
obtained when the renovation work took longer than expected. 
Unhappy at Bruce Stevensons final response, Ms Z asked this service to consider her 
complaint. She was unhappy at the increase in premium cost and thought Bruce Stevenson 
were avoiding responsibility for the selection of insurers. She also said her architect and 
contractor told her the quotes were significantly above the market rate for the type of cover.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Bruce Stevenson took reasonable 
steps to try and obtain fair quotes for Ms Z, so she could decide whether to take out cover or 
not. He thought Bruce Stevenson had contacted a number of insurers to obtain quotes, and 
as a broker they werent responsible for the amounts insurers quoted nor for other insurers 
declining to provide quotes. So, they hadnt acted unfairly towards Ms Z.
Ms Z disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In doing so, Ms Z said the job of a broker was to get the best possible quotes 
from across the market. She felt theyd only got two quotes, at a similarly high level, Having 
subsequently been told by her architect and contractor the quotes were well above the 
industry range, she thought Bruce Stevenson should have known this and told her 
accordingly. She believed theyd mis-sold her the service and failed in their duty of care to 
her as a consumer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Bruce Stevenson have acted fairly towards Ms Z.
The key issue in Ms Zs complaint is that Bruce Stevenson acted unfairly in only obtaining 
two quotes for the cover she required for her property while renovation work was being 
carried out. Also, they should have known the quotes were significantly higher than what her 
architect and contractor told her was the industry standard. In not telling her, theyd failed in 
what she thought was their duty of care to her. For their part, Bruce Stevenson maintain they 
obtained quotes for the type of cover Ms Z required for her property while renovation work 
was being carried out, approaching the panel of insurers that would provide cover. 
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting information and evidence. 
On balance Ive concluded Bruce Stevenson didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms 
Z. I know this will be disappointing to Ms Z, so Ill explain why Ive come to that conclusion.
From the evidence and information Ive seen, Bruce Stevenson approached the insurers on 
the panel they use to obtain quotes for the type of cover required, which is different to 
standard home insurance because of the renovation work to be carried out. I can also see 
from the correspondence between Bruce Stevenson and the insurers, they were provided 
with details of the renovation works, including the plans and the estimated costs, along with 
other details of the existing property (such as the estimated rebuild cost). This is what Id 
have expected Bruce Stevenson to do as a broker. 
Having done so, they arent responsible for the quotes that were provided by the panel of 
insurers, nor that two of the panel of four declined to provide cover and so didnt quote. 
Thats a commercial decision for those insurers (the level of quotes provided and declining to 
quote). I cant hold Bruce Stevenson responsible for those commercial decisions. Bruce 
Stevenson made Ms Z aware of the two quotes provided (and the declines) and Ms Z 
selected one of the two quotes. 
Ms Z has also said shes unhappy at the total amount shes paid for cover over the course of 
the period to April 2022, which includes extensions of cover after the original planned 
completion date of August 2021. However, as I understand it, the extensions have been 
required because the renovation work has taken longer than planned due to the impact of 
Covid and supply issues. However, this isnt something I can consider as part of Ms Zs 
complaint about Bruce Stevenson, as they cant be held responsible for the renovation works 
taking longer than planned. And Ms Zs complaint is about only being provided with two 
quotes, which she maintains are significantly above the industry average for cover of the 
nature she required.
Taking all these points together, I dont think Bruce Stevenson have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how theyve treated Ms Z. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms Zs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman