DRN-2882947
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of R, a limited company, that he was unable to access  funds 
online with HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC). He would like £250 for loss of interest, 
compensation for fees, free internet banking for six months and £50 compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
As I understand it HSBC blocked internet access when wrong details were entered. I 
dont hank HSBC were wrong to do this  its standard practice for fraud prevention.
It seems HSBC told Mr P he needed to go into a branch twice to sort out online 
access which was incorrect. HSBC paid £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
and has offered another £50 which I think is reasonable.
I can understand the confusion over the £100 payment and why our first investigator 
felt this related to a different issue. From the customer notes it seems two complaint 
handlers at HSBC were involved, one focusing on the inconvenience of giving wrong 
information, the other on the fraud prevention aspect of blocking the account. I am 
satisfied that the £100 was for the inconvenience of HSBC giving wrong information 
and I have seen confirmation that this amount has been paid. I dont think it would be 
appropriate to ask HSBC to pay an additional £100 in relation to the account being 
blocked as I think it acted appropriately, and in Mr Ps best interests, in doing so.
Mr P has told us he had to use personal funds to make business payments when he 
couldnt access his business funds. And says he lost about £250 in interest although 
he hasnt given us any evidence of this. Neither has he given us any evidence of fees 
he incurred in doing so. There were other means available to make the payments 
such as the telephone banking service which Mr P accepts he has. He feels in a 
stressful situation he would have expected HSBC to remind him of such services. 
HSBC hasnt been able to locate any phone calls with Mr P so I cant confirm what he 
was told.  I would have expected HSBC to advise Mr P of other means of making 
payments. However as Mr P only re set his telephone service password some 
months earlier I am surprised he didnt think to use this service himself .
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement HSBC UK Bank 
plc should pay £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman