DRN-2855329
The complaint
Mrs T complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
Mrs T also says Savvy shouldve based its lending decision on evidence such as her credit 
score, borrowing history, bank statements and by asking more details about the credit she 
already had outstanding with other lenders.
What happened
Mrs T took an instalment loan for £1,000 on 8 October 2020 and Mrs T was due to make 
repayments of £166.66 per month over 12 months. Mrs T repaid the loan early in February 
2021.
The adjudicator who assessed the complaint didnt think it was wrong to have granted the 
instalment loan. He thought that the checks completed by Savvy were proportionate and 
from what he could see the loan wasnt irresponsibly lent.
Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicator because she said other lenders had declined her loans 
which shows this loan wasnt affordable. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Savvy had to assess Mrs Ts application for borrowing to check if she could afford to pay 
back the amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which 
was proportionate to the circumstances. Savvys checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments 
and Mrs Ts income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Savvy should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mrs T. These factors include: 
Mrs T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mrs T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs T.
At the time the loan was lent, Savvy was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, who 
had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if 
they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or 
ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Ts complaint.
The loan (£1,000) was due to be repaid through twelve monthly instalments of £166.66. At 
the time of application Mrs T declared she had an income of £1,650 per month and monthly 
expenditure of £877.26. The income and expenditure used by Savvy in its lending decision 
was based on what Mrs T declared and verified by what it could see through a credit check. 
Savvy asked about commitments for rent/mortgage, housekeeping and bills, transport, 
socialising/entertainment costs, child care and ongoing debt repayments. Considering the 
expenditure used by Savvy in its assessment, this left a disposable income of around £600 
per month after the monthly loan payment to Savvy was taken into account. 
Given what Mrs T declared and from what Savvy could see, the income and expenditure it 
used in assessing the loan seemed to be a reasonable reflection of her circumstances.  
In view of the level of lending, the loan term and it being the first loan, I think the checks 
Savvy conducted were proportionate. Ive not seen enough evidence to indicate that Savvy 
ought to have built up a more detailed picture of Mrs Ts finances, such as verifying 
everything it was told or completing a full review of her finances. 
Looking at all this together, I dont think that Savvy was wrong to lend. I think its checks were 
proportionate and suggested the loan would be affordable and sustainable.    
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint about her loan. I appreciate this
will be disappointing for Mrs T. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings
that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman