DRN-3020735
The complaint
Mrs K complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt invest her money in
premium bonds when she asked it to, but didnt return it either. Mrs Ks complaint is brought
by her daughter, Ms K, who has power of attorney.
  
What happened
Mrs Ks daughter Ms K applied, on behalf of her mother, for £20,000 of premium bonds in
2018. Ms K said that NS&I cashed the cheque she sent, and confirmed that the account was
open.
Ms K had only recently found out that the account hadnt been opened, but she said NS&I
didnt send the money back either. The money had been sitting in a holding account since
2018, with no interest or winnings.
Ms K said that it took a considerable amount of time for NS&I to locate and repay this
money, and both she and Mrs K feared it was lost.
Ms K told us that Mrs K had got the winnings back, and £100 in compensation, but they
didnt think this was enough to make up for what had gone wrong.
NS&I said it had received an application for bonds in August 2018, in the name of Mrs K, but
signed by Ms K. It asked for Mrs Ks signature. It received another application signed by Ms
K, but then one Mrs K had signed. It opened an account for Mrs K in September 2018. But
then it sent the money back, by warrant (effectively, a cheque).
NS&I said that in January 2021, it was asked to cash in the bonds, and it wrote on 16
January saying the account was closed. It then wrote again, on 11 March, to say that it had
sent the money back, but the warrant had never been cashed.
NS&I provided a complaint response on 1 April, saying that the application it received had
only been signed by Ms K, so it had opened the account for Mrs K in error. Then it realised,
and closed the account, sending the money back. NS&I confirmed that the warrant it sent
had never been cashed. NS&I paid compensation of £100 at this point, because it hadnt
written to Mrs K to tell her that her account was closed.
NS&I said that it now accepted this was wrong. It had received a third application which was
signed by Mrs K. So it was right to open the account. The mistake it made was in closing the
account and sending the money back. And it sent the money back using the wrong details. It
used the details provided by Ms K, when it shouldve used the details Mrs K provided. NS&I
also repeated that it didnt write to Mrs K to say that it had closed her account and refunded
the money.
NS&I said it would now like to offer Mrs K an apology for the service received. It would like to
make a payment for loss of interest from 20 January 2021, when it shouldve paid her the
bonds money back, until 14 March 2021, when it did pay the money back. (NS&I worked this
out at 54 days on £20,000 at 8%= £236.71.) And it said it would also consider a further
payment if Mrs K had been charged any extra fees, because the bills she wanted to pay with
this money werent paid on time.
Ms K responded on behalf of Mrs K, and declined that offer. She didnt think that the interest
or compensation were nearly enough. She thought that NS&I should be paying some
thousands of pounds in compensation, because of what had happened.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mrs Ks account
should not have been closed, and NS&I shouldve done more to contact Mrs K when the
bank transfer failed, and the warrant wasnt cashed.
Our investigator said that NS&I should pay 8% simple interest for all the time that Mrs K was
without her funds, which was 919 days in total. And he said that NS&I should pay more
compensation in recognition of the significant distress and inconvenience that it had caused
to Mrs K as a vulnerable consumer in a difficult situation. Our investigator thought that an
additional £250 was fair in the circumstances.
NS&I said it would pay the additional compensation, but it wouldnt pay the interest our
investigator suggested. It said that it had been able to complete retrospective prize draws for
the period that Mrs K wanted her premium bonds account to be open, and it had already
paid £450 of prizes for this period. That warrant had been cashed.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it, but only in part. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by setting out that I dont think NS&I has to pay interest at 8% simple 
for the 919 days between Mrs K seeking to make her investment in premium bonds, 
and the date when she got this money back. But I do think NS&I should pay a little 
more compensation. This still isnt as much as Ms K has asked for, so Im afraid she 
and Mrs K will find this provisional decision disappointing.
Ill explain why Ive reached different conclusion on the appropriate award in this 
case, starting with the payment to cover the time when Mrs Ks money wasnt 
invested in premium bonds.
Our service does sometimes award interest. I think that can be appropriate when 
someones been wrongly deprived of their funds, so they didnt have the opportunity 
to spend the money, or invest to it elsewhere. But in this case, between September 
2018 and January 2021, we know that Mrs K didnt want to spend her money, or to 
invest it elsewhere. What she wanted was for that money to be invested in premium 
bonds. We can be sure of this, because she thought it had been invested in bonds, 
and she didnt ask for it back until January 2021.
NS&I didnt make that investment for her. That was a mistake. But its told us that its 
been able to recreate now, what Mrs K wouldve received from that investment, by 
running retrospective prize draws for her. Its done that, and its paid her the money 
she would have won in this time. So I do think NS&I has put Mrs K back in the 
position she wouldve been in between September 2018 and January 2021, if nothing 
had gone wrong, and her money had been invested for her.
I know that Ms K has rejected this, but I do think this is fair. I dont think it would bereasonable to ask NS&I to pay interest for this time, for the reasons Ive explained.
I do think that NS&I has to pay 8% simple interest, from the time when Mrs K asked 
for this money back, to when it actually repaid this money. Ms K clearly did want her 
money back then, and she had bills that she needed to pay with this money. So NS&I 
has said it will make this payment from 20 January 2021 to 14 March 2021, which it 
worked out at £236.71.
Ive checked that calculation, and those dates, and Im satisfied that is fair, so Ill 
include that in my award.
NS&I has also agreed to pay £250 in compensation, which our investigator 
suggested. But I think that NS&I should pay a little more in this case, to make a total 
of £500 in compensation for Mrs K. NS&I can count towards that any compensation it 
has already paid. I understand that it has already paid £100. But it cant count the 
money it has paid as prizes to Mrs K.
I think NS&I should pay £500 in total, in compensation, because I think that the 
mistakes it has made have caused very considerable distress to Mrs K. I should 
stress the vulnerability of Mrs Ks position. She needs this money to pay her daily 
living expenses, and maintain her home. She feared it was lost. I also note that Mrs K 
has signed a power of attorney for her daughter, which gives her daughter control 
over Mrs Ks finances. And Mrs K was wrongly told by NS&I that money Ms K said 
she didnt have, had been sent back to her some years ago. I think that would cause 
Mrs K to be deeply worried. Of course, we now know that this was simply NS&Is 
mistake, but I still think this would be extremely worrying for Mrs K, and 
compensation totalling £500, in my view, reflects this.
I think this complaint, and the issues raised here, have also been very stressful for 
Ms K. Unfortunately, the legislation that governs our service simply doesnt allow me 
to require NS&I to pay compensation directly to her for the distress that I understand 
she has experienced. So Im sorry to have to tell Ms K that Im not able to require 
NS&I to compensate her, for the efforts shes put in on behalf of her mother, or for 
the stress that I understand this has caused to her.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I said it had nothing to add, and it would accept my decision.
Ms K said she wanted £4,000, because thats what she felt she and her mother deserved. 
And she said if the award in this case was for less, she would tell her story to people who 
were very interested in hearing it. 
Its entirely Ms Ks decision as to whether she chooses to publicise this case or not. But our 
service cant take that into account, when deciding how much to award. My obligation is to 
decide this case on the basis of what I consider is fair and reasonable. And Ive explained, in 
my provisional decision above, why I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to make an 
award of this size, here. I still think that.So I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments must pay Mrs K interest at 8% 
simple, totalling £236.71, and to pay Mrs K a total of £500 in compensation.
National Savings and Investments can count towards the award of £500 compensation, any
payment of compensation that it has already made to Mrs K. But it cant count the payment
of retrospective prizes towards this amount.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman