DRN-3501686
The complaint
Mr H complained that markers wrongly recorded on his credit file by Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) prevented him from getting a mortgage. He wanted 
BM to pay £1,000 in compensation for the impact this had on him. 
What happened
Mr H had a buy to let mortgage with BM, on a property he was selling. The property was 
empty while Mr H was waiting for the sale to go through, so in April 2020 Mr H agreed a 
payment holiday on this mortgage with BM, for three months. That payment holiday wasnt 
properly recorded by BM, so the missed payments affected Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H said he only discovered this in June 2021, when he applied for a new mortgage. He 
asked BM then to amend his credit file. 
BM wrote in reply to Mr Hs complaint then. It accepted that his credit file shouldnt have any 
missed payment markers for April, May or June 2020. But BM said Mr H should have known 
that there were problems with his mortgage payments for around that time, because it sent 
him an arrears letter on 27 May 2020. So it thought he could have complained about 
problems with the payment holiday earlier. 
BM also said that Mr Hs payment holiday was only ever agreed for three months. And he 
then didnt pay for a fourth month. He missed the payment in July 2020, when the sale was 
about to complete. So BMs letter said it wouldnt remove a missed payment marker for this 
month. 
BM now says something different. It says that the missed payment markers it placed on 
Mr Hs credit file were actually for May, June and July 2020. Thats because it records this 
information one month after a payment is missed. BM has removed these markers. And it 
said it never put a missed payment marker on Mr Hs credit file for August, because his 
mortgage was redeemed in that month. 
But BM didnt tell Mr H that. When it wrote to him in June 2021, it just said it would only 
remove three of the four missed payment markers. It didnt tell him that there were only ever 
three of these markers. 
Mr H said he was left unable to get credit for his family, including for Christmas shopping. 
And he was unable to get a mortgage. He said he was left in this position longer than he 
shouldve been, because he didnt know his credit file had actually been cleared. And he still 
felt it was BMs fault that his mortgage application in June 2021 had been turned down. So 
Mr H wanted significant compensation for this. 
Our investigator said that BM had offered £250 for Mr Hs complaint, and £18 for call costs 
She thought it should pay £100 more than that.
Our investigator said BM had acted quickly to put things right, when Mr H had complained 
about the payment holiday showing as missed payments on his credit file. She thought BM 
should also have told Mr H that there were no negative markers on his credit file, when it 
replied to his complaint in June 2021. Instead, it said there was one, which it wouldnt take 
off. Our investigator said that wasnt fair or reasonable, and it was this point that made her 
think BM should pay £100 more in compensation.
Our investigator said Mr H had told us he couldnt get a mortgage because of the incorrect 
reporting by BM. But she said she couldnt say if that was the case, because she hadnt 
seen his full credit file. 
BM accepted our investigators view. But Mr H said this didnt compensate him enough for 
what had gone wrong. He said this was why he was turned down for a mortgage, and then 
no one had the decency to tell him his credit file had been rectified, meant that he still 
thought he was blacklisted for a further six months, while our service looked into this.
Our investigator said she would need more information to see if Mr Hs mortgage application 
in June 2021 would otherwise have been successful. Mr H sent us his credit file, and there 
were no other adverse markers on there. But Mr H wasnt the sole applicant for the June 
2021 mortgage. And Mr H said he wasnt going ahead with a new mortgage application now, 
because of problems on the other applicants credit file. Although Mr H said these problems 
were new, and wouldnt have affected the June 2021 application, our investigator said she 
still couldnt tell if the mistake by BM was the only reason this joint application had been 
turned down in June 2021.
Mr H still thought he should be paid more compensation, for the time between the complaint 
letter he received from BM (which wrongly told him his credit file still had a missed payment 
marker) and the information from our service which told him there were no negative markers 
from BM. He said he had to borrow informally from friends during this time, although he said 
he wasnt able to provide evidence of that either, as it was in cash. 
Our investigator thought total compensation of £368 remained fair. Mr H disagreed, he 
wanted us to take account of the embarrassment hed felt over his name being blacklisted. 
He said he would accept £1,000 to bring this complaint to a close, and he thought that was 
reasonable. He didnt think £100 was enough. 
Our investigator stressed that Mr H was being offered a total compensation amount of £368, 
and bearing in mind all the circumstances, she thought that was a reasonable amount.
Mr H wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. 
Both sides accept that there were negative markers on Mr Hs credit file, which ought not to 
have been there. Both sides also accept that Mr H wasnt told straight away that these had 
all been removed.When I look at a complaint, and I can see that something has gone wrong, I have to think 
about the impact this had. And I also have to think about what both sides could have done to 
avoid this. So thats what Ive done here.
Mr H said he didnt know that there was a problem with his credit file until he applied for a 
mortgage in June 2021. But BM has pointed out that it sent Mr H a letter about his mortgage 
arrears on 27 May 2020. That letter was, BM accepts, quite wrong  Mr H should have been 
in a payment holiday then. But BM does say that this letter ought to have let Mr H know, well 
before his mortgage application, that there might be a problem with this mortgage. And I 
think thats right. So I dont think that there was no way Mr H could have realised there were 
problems with his credit file before he made his June 2021 mortgage application. 
We know the June 2021 mortgage application was turned down for credit scoring. But the 
bank Mr H applied to cant tell us more than this, because the application failed at an early 
stage. We also know that Mr H was applying jointly with someone else. And we dont know 
what that persons credit file showed in June 2021. We do know it has missed payments 
now, which mean Mr H still cant get this mortgage. 
Like our investigator, I dont think that I can assume this joint application would have gone 
ahead without problems in June 2021, if it hadnt been for BMs mistake. 
For those reasons, I dont think I can reasonably ask BM to increase the compensation in 
this case, because Mr Hs joint mortgage application of June 2021 wasnt successful. 
Mr H also said he wasnt able to buy items on credit while he understood that there were still 
black marks on his credit file. And he didnt know that his file was cleared until we told him 
this. So he said his only option was to borrow money from friends, which he told us caused 
him significant embarrassment. 
Mr H has sent us his credit file for 2022, and it shows that he held a credit card. That card 
does seem to have had available credit, for all of 2021. I do understand that this lending may 
sometimes be more expensive than special offers provided by retailers. But I dont think I 
can say Mr H had no access at all to credit during the latter half of 2021, or that he had no 
option but to borrow from friends during this period.
I do still think that BM made a significant mistake here, in putting negative markers on Mr Hs 
credit file. And it then didnt tell Mr H when it had removed all of those markers. But, because 
I think Mr H ought to have been aware of these issues before he made his mortgage 
application, and because I havent been able to conclude that its most likely that these 
issues had the full impact which Mr H has described, I do think the payment our investigator 
suggested, of £368, provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Thats what Ill now award. I havent been able to see that BM has yet paid the part of this 
award that it initially offered. But if it has since been paid, then Ill allow it to offset that 
amount against this award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires must pay 
Mr H £368. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires can offset against this 
amount any compensation it has already paid for this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman