DRN-3720322
The complaint
Mrs H on her own behalf and the Estate of the late Mr H has complained about the advice 
received from the Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax).
Mrs H and the late Mr H are represented by a third party, but for ease of reference I shall 
refer to Mrs H and/or the late Mr H in my final decision as appropriate. I dont mean any 
disrespect by this. 
What happened
In February/March 2007 Mrs H and the late Mr H were advised to invest a total £20,000 plus 
£250 a month. The funds were invested £6,000 via a Personal Investment Plan (PIP), 
£6,000 via a Guaranteed Investment Plan (GIP) and £4,000 each into ISAs plus a monthly 
investment of £125 each. They both made a top up of £2,000 in April 2007 in their ISAs. 
The PIP and the ISAs were invested into the Cautious Managed Fund. Mrs H made a 
complaint in November 2020 as she believed that they would have been better off putting 
their capital into a high interest savings account which would have shielded them from stock 
market volatility. 
Mrs H made a separate complaint about the GIP in 2018, so I wont be considering it in this 
decision. 
In its response to the complaint Halifax concluded that the £6,000 invested in the PIP would 
have been better left in deposit accounts as Mrs and the late Mr H were advised to invest too 
much of their money. It said;
It concluded, considering Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, they were in a 
good position to invest.
All funds were invested into the Cautious Managed Fund.
Mr and Mrs H had regular financial reviews.
It offered £79.48 to put the matter right for the PIP investment measuring the 
performance against the published Bank of England Bond Rate for the period of 
investment. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with the outcome as she thought all of the money invested into the 
Cautious Managed Fund should be compensated so brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said;
Halifax had already agreed the PIP investment wasnt right for Mr and Mrs H and had 
offered to put that right.
After considering Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances she thought the recommendation for 
the ISAs was in line with their goals and objectives.
The investment into the GIP reduced the overall risk of the portfolio.
She felt they were willing to take a low level of risk which was affordable for them as 
well as Mr and Mrs H being left with sufficient funds in cash if they needed to access 
them.
Mrs H didnt agree with the outcome;
She didnt agree that the Cautious Managed Fund was a low risk investment. Around 
half of the bonds held were subject to currency fluctuations.
At the time Mr and Mrs H didnt have significant wealth that could have allowed them 
to take higher risks. T
Mrs H didnt agree that the GIP reduced the overall risk. 
She asked that the case be passed to an ombudsman. 
Our investigator forwarded the fund factsheet onto Mrs H, who responded that despite 
Halifaxs classification of the fund as being Cautious Managed it might not have been 
invested as such.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive mentioned above, Mrs and the late Mr H made a separate complaint about the GIP 
investment, so I wont be considering this in my decision. Halifax also upheld the complaint 
about the PIP, so again, as it has offered to put the matter right, I wont be deciding on that 
investment. But I will be taking both investments into account when considering                  
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances for the advice to invest in the ISAs. 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and investments made
In February/March 2007 Mr and Mrs H met with a Halifax adviser three times.
Mr H was 69 and Mrs H was 66 and were both retired. They owned their home valued at 
£190,000. Mr H had £90,000 on deposit. And in non-HBoS deposit accounts Mrs H had 
£1,800 and joint funds of £8,200 so in total combined cash of £100,000. Mr and Mrs H didnt 
hold any investments and didnt have any investment experience. They had no liabilities and 
a joint net monthly income of £2,245.83 with an excess of income after expenditure of 
£695.83 per month. 
After taking account of planned expenditure and emergency funds of £16,350                     
Mr and Mrs Hs customer aspirations were recorded as being for £47,750 to be invested for 
five to ten years for capital growth, leaving them with £35,900 and were advised to save 
£250 per month for five years to build up a large sum in regular savings within their ISA 
accounts. They were recorded as have an overall attitude to risk of cautious/medium. 
The above recommendations were made in February but were amended in March as         
Mr and Mrs H had forgotten about an equity release mortgage debt of £42,000 which they 
wanted to repay so the recommendations were reduced for each to £4,000 as a lump sum 
payment and £125 as a monthly regular investment in ISAs, and jointly £6,000 into a PIP 
and £6,000 into a GIP. The latter was to be written on the lives of Mr and Mrs H on a joint life 
second death basis. And in April 2007 following a further meeting Mr and Mrs H where the remaining non-HBoS 
funds of £10,000 were discussed Mr and Mrs H were each recommended to add a further 
£2,000 in a mini ISA to be invested in the Cautious Managed Fund. 
So, for this complaint I will be considering the £6,000 each invested into the ISAs plus the 
£125 monthly regular savings into the same. The £125 monthly payments were made for 16 
months and were both transferred out to another provider in October 2012.
Attitude to risk
Mr and Mrs Hs attitude to risk was recorded as being cautious/medium. I have considered 
how this came about and how Halifax made them aware of the varying levels of risk implicit 
in different investments, particularly bearing in mind they were novice investors.                  
Mr and Mrs H were seeking advice because they didnt have the knowledge or experience to 
make such an investment decision unaided. So, Halifax needs to demonstrate that it gave 
suitable advice taking in account Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, understanding and 
knowledge after ascertaining their attitude to risk. 
From the information given to us by Halifax, Im not convinced that it has been able to show 
us how it came to the conclusion that Mr and Mrs H were cautious/medium investors, but 
overall, I think this was most likely explained to Mr and Mrs H  after taking into account their 
abilities to understand investment risk and clarification of their experience or knowledge to 
understand the risk investment  I think they reasonably understood the risk of the 
investments. 
Although clearly I cant know what was said at the meetings but the discussions that would 
have been needed for the Fact Find(s), the resulting Financial Report(s) plus the 
presentation of the  Key Features Document Ive seen, suggests to me its most likely the 
Halifax adviser discussed the risks involved in investments with Mr and Mrs H. 
And I note from the February 2007 Financial Report that it was confirmed there had been 
discussion about the advantages and disadvantages of providing growth from their deposit 
account and that it was recommended they consider alternatives for some of their capital 
because of the effect of inflation on the power of their savings over the next five to ten years. 
It also went onto say that it had been agreed that Mr and Mrs H would accept changes in 
value both up and down to any investment return. 
So taking all of this into account, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs H were made aware 
about the level of risk and they were content to expose their funds to a cautious/medium 
level of risk for a portion of their available assets/regular savings in order to achieve the 
potential for capital growth over the medium to long term. 
The advice
While Im satisfied it was most likely the case that Mr and Mrs Hs attitude to risk was 
assessed by the adviser  even though it was only as far as was recorded in the Fact 
Find/Financial report and theres no evidence of how Mr and Mrs Hs attitude to risk was 
actually assessed  Ive considered whether what was recommended to them was right for 
their circumstances and financial objectives. 
As Ive said above, without any investment experience Mr and Mrs H would have been 
totally reliant upon the advice given to them. And Ive borne in mind what theyd done 
previously with their money  by putting it in a risk-free environment of a savings/bank 
accounts. And Mrs H has argued that as first-time investors the fund invested into was too high a risk 
for them. But Ive seen nothing to conclude this was the case. As mentioned above its 
recorded that Mr and Mrs Hs investment objective was for the potential for capital growth so 
it seems likely that Mr and Mrs H did want to explore the opportunity to make their money  
grow more than it would do in their bank accounts. Taking everything into consideration Im 
persuaded it was more likely that Mr and Mrs H were willing to take some risk with this 
money.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Hs personal circumstances as they were retired and 
werent in the position to make up any substantial losses to capital if that occurred. And I 
note that £90,000 of the funds had come about as a compensation payment for Mr H and 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs H had experience of handling such an amount 
before. But I dont think it was an unreasonable conclusion that Mr and Mrs H did want to 
invest some of their recently received payout for the potential for capital growth in the future. 
The ISA and PIP were invested into the Cautious Managed Fund. Ive seen a copy of the 
factsheet for the fund from 30 April 2007. I note the Funds aim at the time was;
The investment objective of the fund is to achieve long term growth by investing in a 
managed portfolio of equities investing mainly in the UK and fixed interest 
investments such as corporate bonds.
At that time the fund breakdown was 50.3% of the fund was invested in fixed interest 
securities with the balance in equities for growth and some cash. Halifax has also provided 
us with a 28-page Key Features and Plan Conditions for the ISA, and which included details 
about the Cautious Managed Fund. 
Mrs H has said that the fund might not necessarily have been a cautious fund despite its 
classification as such by Halifax. And Mrs H has referred to the exposure to currency 
fluctuations from non-UK assets. 
I have reviewed the investment objective of the fund and the investment policy with 
reference to the fixed interest assets. It says;
The fixed interest assets will be invested primarily in a wide range of sterling and 
euro dominated investment grade interest-bearing securities of varying durations.
And it went onto say;
The Cautious Managed Fund is a below-average risk fund. It benefits from the 
diversification from investing in both equities and fixed interest investments 
While I accept Mrs Hs comments that its inevitable that non-UK assets will have some 
exposure to currency fluctuations but overall, looking at the diversification in the Fund, I think 
it matched the level of risk Mr and Mrs H were willing to take to achieve some level of 
growth.
Halifax has already concluded that the investment into the PIP represented too much of     
Mr and Mrs Hs capital, but I still need to consider whether the £6,000 each (plus the £125 
monthly regular savings) invested into the ISA accounts and £6,000 invested into the GIP 
was excessive. This represented £18,000 of Mr and Mrs Hs remaining capital of £58,000  
£100,000 less the repayment of the mortgage of £42,000  and I understand £16,350 was 
earmarked for emergencies and planned spending. Taking this into account I dont think this recommendation was excessive. Mr and Mrs H 
retained sufficient of their capital for the identified emergency funds and planned expenditure 
and still had a good portion of their capital funds remaining in cash-based investments. 
As Ive said I think its more likely Mr and Mrs H were given sufficient information for them to 
be aware of the level of risk they were taking. And Mr and Mrs H had at least three meetings 
with Halifaxs adviser so had the additional opportunity prior to investing to discuss any 
concerns they may have had. 
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower risk options available to                
Mr and Mrs H at the time that could have potentially offered them better returns than 
savings. But my role isnt to re-visit the advice that they were given and what other options 
were potentially available to them. Rather its to consider whether the advice that was given 
to Mr and Mrs H was suitable for them at the time and as identified prior to the investment 
and whether it was sufficiently explained to them. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont have anything to conclude that the advice given to Mr and Mrs H to invest 
capital and savings into their ISAs was unsuitable for them bearing in mind their personal 
and financial circumstances, attitude to risk and investment requirements. It follows that I 
dont uphold Mrs and the late Mr Hs complaint. 
No doubt Mrs H will be disappointed with my conclusion, but I hope I have been able to 
explain how and why I have reached it.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, I do not uphold Mrs H and the Estate of the late Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman