DRN-3206821
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has handled his claim for 
subsidence on his home insurance.  
Mr M has been represented by a third party throughout this claim and complaint. For ease of 
reading, all references to Mr M include the actions of his representative. 
What happened
Mr M had home insurance that was underwritten by Lloyds. In 2008 he made a claim for
subsidence after noticing cracking at his property. The claim has taken many years to
resolve and in 2017 Mr M made a complaint to Lloyds that was addressed at the time.
Since then Lloyds has made a settlement offer on the claim. In 2019 Mr M made another
complaint, in which he raised the following concerns:
Mr M thought that the property should be underpinned and this hadnt been included in
the scope of works.
Lloyds were insisting on cash settling the repairs rather than carrying out the work itself.
The property hadnt stabilised and further monitoring was required.
He wanted to be sure that subsidence cover would continue to be provided as part of his
policy.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and he subsequently referred it to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said
that a further twelve months of monitoring should be carried out, at which point the
necessary repairs should be assessed again. However he didnt think it was reasonable for
Lloyds to cash settle these repairs and should instead appoint a contractor to carry them out.
Lloyds didnt agree that twelve months monitoring was required. And said it had struggled to
find a local contractor to carry out the repairs, so thought a cash settlement was more
appropriate.  
As an agreement wasnt reached the matter came to me to decide.
My provisional decision
In November 2021 I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Monitoring
When dealing with a subsidence claim, the insurer must first determine the cause of the
problem and try to mitigate it. Here a tree was identified as the cause and was removed. Id
then expect a period of monitoring to take place to ensure the property is stable, before
moving to repairs.
Lloyds has shown that it has monitored the property consistently between 2017 and 2018.
Its provided the results of this monitoring which shows the property to be stable. While I
understand the monitoring stopped at the beginning of 2018, as the last reading is from the
start of 2019, Im satisfied that its done enough to show that the property remained stable.
I understand Mr Ms concerns that the property hasnt stabilised and will be affected by
seasonal changes to the soil and other trees that are a potential risk. However Ive seen no
evidence of further cracking or movement in this time. So Ive not seen any reason to
suggest the monitoring already carried out is unreliable or that any further is required.
I therefore think Lloyds has done enough to show that the property has stabilised and think
the original decision to proceed to repairs was a fair one. So I wont ask it to carry out any
further monitoring
Underpinning
Mr M has said that he thinks his property should be underpinned. And this opinion was
confirmed by one of Lloyds contractors who attended the property. While I dont doubt
Mr Ms account of the conversation with Lloyds contractor, since this visit Lloyds has shown
that the property has stabilised. And in these circumstances, its reasonable that
superstructure repairs can be carried out in order to rectify the cracks in the building.
Underpinning is an expensive and expansive undertaking. And this service would only
expect a business to underpin a property if it hadnt been successful in stabilising it by other
means and therefore superstructure repairs wouldnt be possible.
Here, Im satisfied that the cause of the subsidence has been identified and mitigated. And
Lloyds has shown this has stabilised Mr Ms property. Im therefore satisfied that its acted
fairly by moving to superstructure repairs, rather than underpinning.
Settlement of claim
I agree with our investigator that Lloyds hasnt acted fairly in its settlement of the claim. And
that it hasnt done enough to show that the property was in a poor state of repair that
warranted the removal of decoration costs from the settlement. I therefore agree that Lloyds
should include all decoration and making good costs in its settlement.
Further, while I accept that Lloyds can choose how it settles a claim, I dont think a cash
settlement is fair in these circumstances. Lloyds has said the reason it decided to cash settle
the claim was because of the poor maintenance of the property. However as I dont agree it
has done enough to show this, it follows that this isnt a valid reason to enforce a cash
settlement.
In subsidence claims, the work required relates to the structure of the building so it is usual
that a policyholder may feel uneasy about arranging the work themselves. Further where
work is carried out by a contractor appointed by the insurer, it is responsible for the quality of
the work and will therefore put things right where good quality isnt achieved. I therefore
dont think a cash settlement is fair in these circumstances. So I intend to require Lloyds to
appoint its own contractors to carry out the repairs.
I note Lloyds comments about the difficulties it has faced in selecting a suitable contractor to
carry out repairs, but I dont think this is a good enough reason to offer only a cash
settlement. Large insurers will usually have a panel of contractors to select from, so it seems
unlikely that Lloyds would be unable to find a contractor to complete the work.Ongoing cover
Lloyds has confirmed that as long as the required work is carried out to the property, then
subsidence cover will continue to be offered as long as the policy is in place. So I hope this
has alleviated Mr Ms concerns around ongoing cover.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given, I intend to require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Include all necessary decoration required following the repairs in its settlement.
Appoint its own contractor to carry out the repairs rather than offering a cash settlement.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr M responded to say he didnt agree with my conclusion that his property didnt need to be 
underpinned. He said the need for underpinning was confirmed to him by a chartered 
surveyor appointed by the insurance provider. And this decision was only overturned when 
the claim was handed to Lloyds loss adjuster. Further he said he would like reassurance 
that any future movement wouldnt result in an additional excess being applied.
Lloyds responded to say that it had already issued a cash settlement of around £14,000 so 
in order for its contractors to carry out the work it would need this to be returned. It has since 
confirmed that the cheque hasnt been cashed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about the surveyor who recommended underpinning but 
this hasnt changed my position. The opinion of the surveyor was based on just one visit and 
not a sustained period of monitoring. And he gave the opinion verbally and not as part of a 
written report.  Lloyds has shown its based its decision on significant monitoring and 
investigations and has provided reports to evidence this. And I find this more persuasive. So 
Im satisfied its done enough to show its decision not to underpin the property is a fair one. 
Ive also considered Mr Ms comments about an excess being applied to future claims. While 
I wouldnt usually expect an additional excess to be applied to damage sustained due to the 
same peril, within a reasonable period of time, it isnt my role to comment on possible future 
claims as there can be many different nuances to consider. If any problems arise in the 
future Mr M can raise these with Lloyds and then bring them to this service if he is unhappy 
with its response.  
Lloyds has confirmed the cheque issued by way of a cash settlement hasnt been cashed by 
Mr M. And Mr M has said he still has the cheque in his possession. I think its reasonable for 
work to only go ahead once either the cheque has been returned to Lloyds, or Lloyds is 
satisfied it has been cancelled or expired. 
After considering everything, I see no reason to depart from the findings outlined in my 
provisional decision, as long as the cheque that was previously issued can be returned or 
cancelled. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to:
On receipt of the returned cheque or on obtaining confirmation that it has been cancelled 
or expired, appoint its own contractor to carry out the repairs rather than offering a cash 
settlement.
Include all necessary decoration required following the repairs in its settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman