DRN-3428942
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund a transaction she made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In May 2021, Ms P fell victim to a scam. At the end of May 2021, Ms P opened a credit card 
account with Capital One. 
I wont go into the detailed background of the scam as its known to both parties and isnt in 
dispute. 
In summary, between May 2021 and September 2021 Ms P made over 42 payments as part 
of the scam. The payment she made from her Capital One credit card was for just over £400 
and was made in June 2021. Ms P used her card to send the funds to the scammer via a 
money transfer service.
In September 2021, Ms P became aware she was the victim of a scam and reported the 
scam to Capital One. Ms P asked Capital One to help get her money back.
Capital One looked into Ms Ps fraud claim but declined to refund her. They said she wasnt 
entitled to a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act and that they wouldnt raise 
a chargeback claim as it had little chance of success. 
Unhappy with Capital Ones response, Ms P brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint but didnt uphold it, saying Capital One hadnt 
acted unreasonably in declining to refund her. Ms P disagreed with the investigators 
opinion, so the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
Generally, Capital One can hold Ms P liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. In this case, its 
not in dispute that Ms P made the transaction and consented to it. 
Ms Ps claim is based on her making the transaction as part of a scam and the funds 
ultimately ending up with the scammers. So, Ive considered whether Ms P is entitled to a 
refund from Capital One.
From what Ive seen the transaction Ms P made didnt stand out as being particularly 
unusual or out of character. While I appreciate that the credit card was new, and this was the 
first transaction made on it  that by itself isnt enough for me to fairly say Capital One 
shouldve undertaken more checks. Capital One cant be reasonably expected to check all 
payments made by customers. Here, the transaction was for just over £400 and didnt 
exceed the credit card limit. So, Im not persuaded there was enough about this transaction 
that shouldve suggested to Capital One that Ms P mayve been a victim of a scam. And, I 
cant fairly say Capital One shouldve taken any additional steps prior to processing this 
transaction. 
Ive also considered Capital Ones actions around the chargeback. There are specific 
chargeback reasons that Capital One would be required to use if they raised a claim, and 
they arent obligated to raise or pursue a chargeback if they dont think they have a 
reasonable chance of success. Ms Ps payment was made via a money transfer service, 
who transferred the funds onto the scammer. And, a chargeback could only be raised 
against the money transfer service, not directly against the scammer. Ms P used the money 
transfer service to transfer the funds, which they did, so theyve provided the service she 
paid for. On that basis, its unlikely that a chargeback claim wouldve been successful. 
Therefore, I cant say Capital One acted unreasonably in not raising a chargeback claim for 
Ms P.
Capital One also considered whether Ms P was entitled to a refund under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA). This section of the CCA, in certain circumstances, gives a 
borrower an equal right to claim against their finance provider if theres a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation of goods or services. In order for Ms P to have a claim under Section 
75, the money transfer service would need to be responsible for the breach of contract or 
misrepresentation  which isnt the case. As already explained, they provided the service 
that Ms P paid for by transferring the funds to the intended account - albeit that account was 
held by the scammer. 
Ms Ps dissatisfaction relates to the scammer who ultimately received the money. However, 
in order to hold Capital One liable under a Section 75 claim in relation to the scammer, the 
money would need to have gone directly from Ms Ps Capital One credit card to the 
scammers account  which didnt happen. The funds going via the money transfer service 
means I cant fairly hold Capital One liable in relation to any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation made by the scammer. So, Im satisfied that Capital One have correctly 
considered Ms Ps claim under Section 75 of the CCA, and that Ms P isnt entitled to a 
refund on that basis.
I appreciate that Ms P is going to be very disappointed, but I cant fairly ask Capital One to 
refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman