DRN-2028723
The complaint
Mrs L took out a loan to purchase furniture from A. Share and Sons Limited, trading as SCS. 
She says SCS mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) at the same time. 
What happened
Mrs Ls loan was set up to run for four years and the PPI would have covered the entire 
period. The insurance was designed to protect Mrs Ls monthly repayments if she became 
unable to work through disability or unemployment. The PPI also included life and critical 
illness cover and merchandise benefits.
Our adjudicator considered that the PPI had been mis-sold. SCS didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
SCS says it didnt advise Mrs L to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs L. 
But it still had to provide Mrs L with information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so 
that Mrs L could make a proper choice about whether to take the policy out. 
I dont think SCS made the costs and benefits clear to Mrs L. Ive seen a copy of the loan 
agreement. Theres no actual figure for the cost of PPI. Instead the cost of the policys set 
out as:
 calculated at the rate of 0.68% per month on the daily balance outstanding on the 
account and included in the Monthly Repayment. 
So, I dont think Mrs L would have known what the true cost of the PPI was. And I wouldnt 
have expected Mrs L to have had to work this out for herself.
 
SCS should also have explained to Mrs L that, because she had nothing to pay until June 
2006, she was effectively being charged for PPI 12 months before she started to make her 
loan repayments. I cant see that it did that and I think that would have mattered to her.
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs Ls lost out because of how SCS sold her the 
PPI. It should put things right for her.
Putting things right
SCS should put Mrs L back in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. Its 
my understanding that the PPI policys been cancelled as the loans ended. SCS should: 
(A) Pay Mrs L the amount she paid each month for the PPI; 
(B) Add simple interest to each amount from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year; and 
(C) If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, SCS can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires SCS to take off tax from this interest. SCS must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I require A. Share and Sons Limited to put 
things right for her as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman