DRN-4082350
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim she made on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events.
Mrs K is insured under her employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provided cover for her own occupation and included a deferred period of 28 weeks.
In January 2022, Mrs K became absent from work. In May 2022, her employer made an 
incapacity claim on the policy. Mrs K completed a member statement which said that she 
was absent from work due to work-related stress and pressure, which had led to stress, 
depression and anxiety.
L&G looked into Mrs Ks claim. One of its clinical vocational specialists (VCS) spoke to Mrs 
K and carried out a telephone assessment with her. The VCS concluded that Mrs K was 
suffering from work related stress, leading to depression and anxiety. They also felt that Mrs 
K was fit to return to work, as they considered her absence had been triggered by work-
related stressors. On that basis, L&G turned down Mrs Ks claim, as it didnt feel the claim 
met the policy definition of incapacity.
Mrs K was unhappy with L&Gs decision and she appealed. Her GP provided a letter in 
support of Mrs Ks claim. The GP said that Mrs K had been consulting with them since 
August 2021 with stress at work and subsequent development of anxiety and depression. 
The GP said that Mrs K now had moderate depression and severe anxiety. The GP stated 
that as they werent an occupational health specialist, they couldnt comment directly on 
whether Mrs K was fit to work in her profession  but they said they felt Mrs Ks symptoms 
would make this difficult.
L&Gs Medical Office (MO) reviewed the GPs evidence. However, the MO wasnt satisfied 
that there was evidence of pervasive or persistent symptoms of mental illness which would 
preclude Mrs K from working. The MO felt Mrs K could perform her own occupation with a 
similar employer. So L&G maintained its decision to turn down Mrs Ks claim.
Mrs K remained unhappy with L&Gs position and so she asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator felt it had been reasonable for L&G to rely on the information it had been 
provided with at the outset to turn down Mrs Ks claim. However, she felt that Mrs Ks GPs 
letter was suggestive that Mrs K may have developed an impairing mental health condition. 
So therefore, she felt that L&G ought to have requested further medical evidence to assess 
whether or not Mrs K now met the policy definition of incapacity. She recommended that 
L&G should obtain further medical evidence and to allow it to further consider Mrs Ks claim.
L&G disagreed. It didnt think the investigator had considered its MOs evidence. The MO 
was occupationally qualified. And it said the MO had written to the GP following the GPs 
letter with practical steps to move things forwards. Thered been no response to this letter. 
And L&G didnt agree that the onus should be placed upon it to continually try and obtain 
evidence. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive concluded that L&G must obtain further medical information and 
reassess Mrs Ks claim. Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that this decision will only consider whether it was fair for L&G to 
turn down Mrs Ks claim. I appreciate Mrs K has also complained about the way that L&G 
handled her claim and the service she received. However, L&G has told us that this didnt 
form part of Mrs Ks original complaint to it and it didnt address these issues within its final 
response to her complaint. Under our rules, a financial business must be given an 
opportunity to look into a complaint before we can potentially help with it. L&G has told us 
that it will be assessing Mrs Ks service concerns separately.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the available medical and other evidence, to decide whether I 
think L&G handled Mrs Ks claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs Ks 
employers contract with L&G. Mrs Ks employer made a claim on her behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given she wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for L&G to 
consider whether Mrs Ks claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to 
look at L&Gs definition of incapacity. This means the insured member is incapacitated by 
illness or injury that prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation 
immediately before the start of the deferred period.
This means that in order for L&G to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out the essential duties of their own 
occupation. 
The policy says that L&G will pay incapacity benefit the day immediately after the last day of 
the deferred period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder mustve 
been incapacitated in line with the policy terms, for the entire deferred period and afterwards.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mrs Ks responsibility to provide L&G with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that her illness had led to her being unable to carry out the 
essential duties of her own occupation for the full deferred period and afterwards.
L&G first assessed and turned down Mrs Ks claim in May 2022. At that point, it hadnt 
received the letter from Mrs Ks GP. So I think its appropriate for me to assess whether it 
was fair for L&G to initially turn down the claim in May 2022. Ill then move on to consider 
whether it was fair for L&G to maintain the claim decline once the GPs evidence was 
received.Was it fair for L&G to turn down the claim in May 2022?
L&G assessed the evidence Mrs K provided in support of her claim, including with clinical 
staff.  And it concluded that she wasnt suffering from a mental illness which prevented her 
from carrying out her role. Instead, it felt that Mrs K was suffering with a reaction to work-
related stressors. So Ive next looked at the available evidence to assess whether I think this 
was a fair conclusion for L&G to reach.
There is very little medical evidence available from the time of Mrs Ks claim. L&G relied on 
the member statement Mrs K completed, along with the VCS findings, following their 
conversation with Mrs K. Ive looked carefully at both pieces of evidence.
Mrs K was asked to describe the reasons why she was absent from work and to provide a 
diagnosis. She stated: 
Work related stress and pressure leading to anxiety, stress and depression.
The VCS report is dated 6 May 2022. It too provides a diagnosis of work-related stress 
leading to depression and anxiety. The VCS recorded:
Member advises she has been absent since 5 January due to work related stress. She 
reports that she was stressed at work for the last couple of years, but it got worse in the last 
year. She reports that there is a huge amount of pressure in the role, to meet deadlines and 
targets and had to work late to meet deadlines. She started to become overwhelmed and 
anxious at work. She would get dizzy and panic. She reports that she would try hard to work 
through it and work through how she was feeling and doing breathing exercises. She states 
she has tried several self-help things that only worked in the short term. She reports that 
when she was off work, she would be worried about cases at work and could not switch off. 
She took three days off in December when she was not able to continue with work as she 
was feeling anxious and feeling like a failure. She spoke to her employer, and they agreed to 
reduce her workload, she went back to work but was still not able to continue with work even 
with the reduced workload. She had sought help from the GP before she went off sick. She 
sought further help from the GP again and she was referred to (a) local mental health trust 
and she has been assessed in April. She was referred to CBT and has been put on waiting 
list. She was told that the waiting list is eight months.
The VCS concluded: 
In my opinion the member is fit to return to work. Her current absence does not appear to be 
clinical and was triggered by work related stressorsMember reports that her main barriers 
are her anxiety, she has difficulty with having phone calls. Her job is demanding and has to 
have difficult discussions with colleagues at work. As she still anxious and overwhelmed she 
does not feel she would be unable to do this.
Ultimately, the VCS report concluded:
In my opinion this case is not primarily medical. The member is suffering from stress type 
symptoms which are directly related to work related issues and personal stressors. This has 
caused her to experience stress. It may be worth noting that stress in itself is not a clinical 
illness but instead is used in general parlance to describe an adverse reaction (which can 
manifest as physical and/or psychological symptoms e.g. disturbed sleep, anxiety, anger 
etc.) to particular situations due to incompatibly between the person and the situation for 
non-medical reasons.
Although the member is exhibiting clinical signs of anxiety and depression, if the work-related factors were removed, there should be no reason why she could not return to work in 
some capacity. The member has reported ongoing symptoms and an inability to return to 
work due to her anxiety, this is not consistent with the reported level of her day-to-day 
function. She appears to be managing her activities of daily living and has a reasonable 
typical day function.
It seems that L&G didnt request any further medical evidence from Mrs Ks GP at this point, 
as it relied on the clinical opinion of the VCS and Mrs Ks testimony. I dont think it was unfair 
for L&G to do so here. Taking into account the evidence which was available to L&G in May 
2022, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to conclude that the evidence showed that 
the main reason for Mrs Ks absence was likely the workplace stress she was experiencing 
as opposed to a mental health condition. It also appears, from the VCS report, that Mrs K 
would be in a position to return to work if the workplace issues had been resolved. 
This means I dont think L&G acted unfairly in May 2022 when it decided that Mrs K wasnt 
suffering from a significant mental health condition during the deferred period, which 
prevented her from carrying out the material and substantial duties of her occupation.
Did L&G fairly assess the new evidence?
Following L&Gs decision to decline the claim, Mrs Ks GP provided a letter dated 12 July 
2022. Ive set out what I think are the key points below:
I can confirm that I have been consulting with (Mrs K) since 2 August 2021 regarding stress 
at work and subsequently development of anxiety and depression
Despite time off, making sensible changes to her lifestyle and exploring help from the local 
Wellbeing service, (Mrs K) continued to struggle with low mood and anxiety. Due to 
significant waiting times locally for help from mental health services, she had her initial 
assessment with the Wellbeing teamAt the time of the assessment, her score 
wasindicating moderate depressionand her score on the anxiety scale wasindicating 
severe anxiety.
Although it would seem the precipitant for (Mrs Ks) depression and anxiety was initially 
work, unfortunately it seems that her low mood and anxiety has now become more pervasive 
and affects her in other areas of her life.
As I am not a trained occupational health physician, I cannot comment directly on whether 
(Mrs K) is able to continue in her current profession. However, I would suggest the 
symptoms she has experienced would make this difficult. I think it would only be fair in terms 
of ongoing assessment for (Mrs K), if she has not already, to have a formal occupational 
health assessment to assess this further.
L&Gs MO assessed the GPs letter. They concluded:
This is a work-related stress claim, with no evidence of pervasive or persistent symptoms of 
mental illness that would fully preclude work, in my view. The member would be able to 
perform her own occupation with a similar employer, in my opinion. The member remains 
high functioning and is driving, cooking, hoovering, cleaning and reading books, which is 
reassuring.
The MO wrote to Mrs Ks GP with some suggestions as to how Mrs K might be supported 
and Ive considered that letter carefully. Its clear the MO felt that work could be beneficial for 
Mrs K and that they suggested Mrs K should seek occupational health support from her 
employer. It isnt clear to me though that the MOs letter naturally invited a response from the GP, as it seemed to be based on their own opinion and understanding of Mrs Ks clinical 
situation.
Ive thought very carefully about the GPs letter and L&Gs response to it. Im mindful that the 
MO is an expert in their field and in their clinical opinion, Mrs K is fit for work. However, it 
seems to me that whilst the GP accepts Mrs Ks symptoms were originally down to stress at 
work, both the Wellbeing service and the GP had concluded, in April 2022, that Mrs K was 
suffering from moderate depression and severe anxiety. Depression and anxiety can both be 
impairing mental health conditions, which could potentially affect Mrs Ks ability to carry out 
her own occupation. And in my view, L&G didnt have enough medical evidence to fully 
assess whether the definition of incapacity had gone on to be met. I asked L&G if it could 
provide me with copies of the fit notes Mrs K was given in January 2022, so that I could 
consider Mrs Ks likely diagnosis at that point further, but these notes were not forthcoming.
It seems to me that L&G ought to have requested further medical evidence from Mrs Ks 
treating practitioners in July 2022. I think it wouldve been reasonable for L&G to request a 
copy of Mrs Ks full medical records, from January 2022 onwards, together with copies of 
any notes of her CBT therapy. In my view, this may have given L&G a clearer picture of Mrs 
Ks overall clinical position during the deferred period and afterwards and could have 
determined its next steps with the claim. While the MOs evidence is undoubtedly helpful, I 
dont think its enough to counteract the GPs findings that Mrs Ks original work-related 
stress had developed into depression and anxiety.
So I find that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for L&G to now obtain Mrs 
Ks full medical records from January 2022 and other medical evidence it may think 
necessary and to reconsider Mrs Ks claim based on that evidence and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. Its important that I make it clear that Im not directing L&G to accept 
and pay Mrs Ks claim  Im simply directing it to obtain further medical evidence to decide 
whether its sufficient to show that the claim meets the policy definition of incapacity. If Mrs K 
is unhappy with the outcome of the claim reassessment, she may be able to make a new 
complaint about that issue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to obtain Mrs Ks full medical records 
and to reassess her claim in light of that evidence and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman