DRN-4007020
The complaint
Ms H says Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms H took out a personal loan with Barclays in October 2018. The loan was for £25,000 over 
a 60-month term, with monthly repayments of around £480. It was for home improvements. 
At the time of the application Ms H held joint and sole name current accounts, and a savings 
account, with Barclays. The loan has an outstanding balance that Ms H is now repaying via 
a debt management plan.
Ms H says the loan was unaffordable and within two years of taking it out she needed to 
enter a debt management plan. She feels better checks ought to have been completed as 
she and her husband had recently moved house, taking on a bigger mortgage, and they had 
higher bills to pay. Ms H says prior to entering the debt management plan they were juggling 
money, paying over £900 a month on unsecured debt. This caused significant stress. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Ms Hs complaint. He found Barclays should have carried out 
better checks, but he had not seen any evidence to show that had it done so it ought to have 
made a different lending decision. 
Unhappy with this assessment Ms H asked for an ombudsmans review. She said the other 
debt she had when she applied was not considered and Barclays has upheld a different 
complaint she made about a credit card  the borrowing was at around the same time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont
consider it necessary to set all of this out in detail this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website, but broadly what we consider is 
whether a lender carried out proportionate checks; if so, did it make fair lending decision; 
and if not, what would better checks most likely have shown.
As an existing account holder Ms H was pre-approved for this loan. Barclays says before 
lending it completed an affordability analysis. It hasnt clarified the source of the data, but 
based on what we know about its usual approach this would most likely be based on the 
activity on Ms Hs current accounts. This allowed it to understand what her income and 
expenditure was. It has shared the relevant bank statements with this service and the results 
of its affordability assessment which it feels showed Ms H had enough disposable income to 
afford the loan. Contrary to Ms Hs concern, I can see it did take into account the 
repayments she was already making to an existing credit card and loan.
It says it also completed a credit check and internal credit scoring. But Barclays hasnt 
provided us with the results of the credit check, so I dont know what it saw  and whether it 
was detailed enough. The adjudicator raised this issue and Barclays did not respond with 
any additional information to evidence the scope or results of its credit check. Overall, this 
means I cant conclude with certainty that the banks checks were proportionate.
However, Ms H has now sent in her credit file so I can see what the bank would most likely 
have known. And from the available evidence I dont think there was any reason for it not to 
lend based on Ms Hs creditworthiness at the time. It seems she was up to date on her 
active credit and had no public records registered against her, or significant adverse data on 
her file. I have also reviewed Ms Hs bank statements in case there was other borrowing, 
formal or informal, that is not on her file. They do not show any of the typical signs of 
financial hardship  such as reliance on an overdraft facility, returned direct debits or use of 
payday loans  or of financial instability such as excessive gambling. I note she also had a 
savings account and was able to make monthly payments into this.
I appreciate Ms H went on to struggle financially but I can only consider the information that 
Barclays would have access to at the time of her application. And based on this I think it 
made a fair lending decision. I note she successfully met her contractual repayments for the 
first 18 months. I am sorry that Ms Hs financial position deteriorated and that this caused 
her significant stress, I hope she now has the support she needs.
I have not found any evidence that Barclays treated Ms H unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way. I note it paid her £200 compensation for its slow response to her complaint.
Ms H also raised that Barclays upheld a different complaint she made about a credit card, 
but we review each complaint on its induvial merits and an outcome can vary based on 
several factors - I can only comment here on the merits of this loan complaint.
 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman