DRN-3965430
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy with the settlement figure Advantage Insurance Company Limited has 
provided to him, following a claim made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Zs car was involved in an accident in August 2022, which caused damage to the vehicle. 
Because the car was damaged, Mr Z made a claim for his loss, under his motor insurance 
policy.
Advantage instructed a third-party expert, who Ill call H, to assess the damage, and provide 
a report on the matter. H asked Mr Z for photographs of the car, and conducted a review 
based on those images. It declared the car a total loss.
Advantage accepted the claim was covered, and ultimately offered Mr Z £26,336 in 
settlement. It said this was based on the market value of the vehicle, minus 20%. It 
explained it had taken this 20% off the market value, as the car had been previously written 
off. And that meant the cars value was 20% less than it would have been otherwise.
Mr Z didnt feel this settlement offer was fair. He disputed the market value that had been 
placed on the car. And he said he hadnt known the car had been written-off before, when he 
purchased it. So, he didnt think it was fair for 20% to be deducted from the market value 
either.
Further to this, Mr Z said he wanted to keep the vehicle. Advantage confirmed this was 
possible to do, but Mr Z would need to pay Advantages appointed salvage expert for the 
vehicle, which after settlement of the claim, was no longer Mr Zs. The salvage expert said 
the car could be bought back from it for £12,250. 
Mr Z didnt feel this amount was correct either. He said he had been under the impression he 
would only have to pay between 10% and 15% of the vehicles valuation to retain the 
salvage.
In addition to the above, Mr Z told Advantage he was dissatisfied with the level of service he 
had been provided with during his claim. 
Advantage considered Mr Zs complaint. It maintained its position on the cash settlement 
offered to Mr Z, as well as the salvage value. But it recognised there had been six days 
delay in appointing the salvage agent, and six days delay in logging Mr Zs complaint. 
Advantage said it hadnt been able to listen to calls with the third-party expert, H, or with its 
own in-house engineer, to confirm whether the representatives had been rude, or acted 
unfairly. But Advantage offered Mr Z £100 for the trouble and upset he had experienced. 
This was sent to Mr Z by bank transfer. And settlement for the claim was provided too. 
Mr Z remained dissatisfied with Advantages position on the matter. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
considered that Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably in terms of the vehicle valuation. 
Our investigator also considered the £100 compensation offered to be reasonable. So, they 
didnt recommend Advantage do anything more.
Mr Z didnt agree. In summary he said:
The car was purchased in good faith, and he wasnt aware of it previously. So, he 
didnt feel the 20% reduction for this was reasonable.
No one physically came to inspect the car.
Hed asked Advantage for a cash settlement in lieu of repairs, but this was rejected 
with no explanation
He didnt agree with the salvage retention figure given, and he was led to believe this 
was in the region of 10-15%
Because Mr Z didnt agree, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr Z. But Id like to reassure the parties 
that I have reviewed all information provided and arrived at my decision based on that. Ive 
explained my decision below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether 
Advantage acted in line with these requirements, when it agreed to settle £26,336, minus the 
applicable excess, for Mr Zs claim. 
Vehicle valuation
Ive reviewed Mr Zs policy documentation. And I can see this explains how Advantage will 
settle a claim. Under Section 1, the policy says that in the event of a total loss, the 
settlement provided will be based on the market value of the car, immediately before the 
loss. This is usual of insurance policies of this nature. Ive considered whether Advantage 
acted in line with these policy terms. And Im satisfied it did.
Advantage reviewed trade guides when coming to its value. The trade guides base values 
on specific information, including make, model, age, specification, mileage and pre-loss 
condition. This service tends to rely on the relevant trade guides for valuation too. Thats 
because as a service we dont value cars. I usually find these guides persuasive, as theyre 
based on nationwide research of prices.
Advantage used two main guides, these being Glass and CAPS. Ive seen the information 
these guides gave. Glass arrived at a figure of £30,000 and CAPS £32,442. Advantage then 
noted the value of the vehicle to be £31,211. As this is within the range of the values noted 
by the guides, I think this was a fair and reasonable value to arrive at.
Advantage then noted it needed to take 20% off the market value of the car, because it had 
been written off previously, and this would have affected the market value in this instance. Advantage has provided information to show that the value of a category N car would been 
around 20% percent lower than that on one that hasnt previously been written off. With this 
in mind, I dont find Advantage has acted unreasonably by taking this into account when 
coming to its settlement offer for Mr Zs car. Advantage actually took less than 20% off the 
value noted above and offered £26,336. So, Im satisfied it acted reasonably.
Mr Z has raised that he didnt know the car was a previously written-off vehicle when he 
purchased it. And for this reason, he feels it unfair of Advantage to take money off the usual 
market value, for it being a previous write-off. But I dont agree it is unfair in this instance. 
This service would generally expect a policyholder to have carried out certain checks to 
establish key details of a vehicle when purchasing it. For example, by conducting a HPI 
check. This check, when completed, provides details such as whether a car was previously 
written off. Mr Z has told this service he didnt complete a check such as this, but purchased 
the car based on the advert for it.
I understand why this meant Mr Z didnt know of the cars written-off status. But I dont hold 
Advantage accountable for that. Advantages obligation is to pay the market value of the 
vehicle. And Im satisfied it has acted reasonably in that. 
Mr Z has said he asked for a cash in lieu of repairs settlement. And this wasnt agreed. But 
Mr Zs car was declared a total loss. So, Im satisfied the reasonable for Advantage to act in 
line with the policy terms and provide a total loss settlement  this being the market value of 
the car.
Lastly, Mr Z has raised concerns that the assessment of his vehicle was carried out by 
images only, as opposed to through an in-person visit. But Ive seen the report carried out, 
and Im satisfied that the expert was able to do carry out the report in the way they did. It is 
sufficiently detailed. And the report noted the car as a total loss  which I can see Mr Z 
considered to be the case anyway. The valuations were based on the above trade guides, 
which doesnt need to be done in person. So, Im satisfied this point doesnt make a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Salvage retention figure 
Mr Z has also noted that the salvage retention figure provided to him is unfair. So, Ive 
considered this element of his complaint too.
Its important to note, that once a settlement has been made under the policy, the vehicle 
itself is no longer the policyholders, but the insurers. So, if the policyholder wishes to buy the 
car back, they can do so, but at the price the insurer would have been able to sell the 
salvage for.
Advantage has said the salvage value of the car is £12,500. And has provided information to 
show that Mr Zs car was worth at least this amount to it. Advantage has provided an 
example of a recent category S vehicle of the same age, and lower mileage being sold for 
£13,310. As this is comparable with Mr Zs car, I think it has acted fairly in noting the salvage 
value to be £12,500.
Mr Z has noted he was told the salvage value would be between 10-15% of the cars value. 
But I havent seen any firm evidence of that. And in any event, Im more persuaded by the 
evidence provided, and mentioned above, which shows £12,500 to be a fair retention value. 
So, I dont require Advantage to do anything differently here. 
Handling of the claimMr Z has also raised concerns with the handling of his claim. Advantage has accepted 
around 12 days of delay. And whilst it hasnt listened to phone calls Mr Z raised concerns 
with, it has apologised for the service received. 
As Advantage has accepted the above handling concerns, I havent need to consider these 
any further. I have however considered the remainder of the claim and cant see any other 
unavoidable delays in the progress of the claim.  
Given this, Ive thought about whether the £100 offered to Mr Z is fair, for the above 
accepted service issues. And I think it is fair. I say that because I think it fairly recognises the 
distress and inconvenience Mr Z would have felt having to chase for the valuation expert to 
be appointed and experiencing 12 days of delay. So, I dont require it to increase its 
compensation here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do anything differently in respect of this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman