DRN-3849050
The complaint
Mr H complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy after his house was flooded.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill give only a brief 
summary here.
Mr H has a home insurance policy underwritten by AXA, which covers his home and its 
contents, amongst other things.
He made a claim in February 2020. His home had been inundated with foul water after a 
named storm had caused the local river to flood. AXA accepted the claim and appointed loss 
adjusters to assess the damage and arrange repairs.
Mr H says AXA failed to deal with the claim in a timely manner and handled it incompetently. 
He had to make frequent requests for updates and had to push for any progress with the 
claim.
He says his requests for information were often ignored and there appeared to be a 
complete lack of communication between AXA, the loss adjuster and their appointed 
contractors.
Mr H complained to AXA in June 2021. At that point, the agreed repairs had still not been 
completed fully 16 months after the claim was made.
AXA accepted that the service theyd provided to Mr H had at times been below the standard 
theyd expect. And they paid Mr H £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hed suffered as a consequence of their failings.
But they said that most of the delays in the progress of the claim had been unavoidable. The 
claim had been complex, involving multiple trades and contractors  some appointed by 
Mr H himself. And the COVID pandemic had affected their ability to get contractors on site 
and find alternative accommodation.
AXA also said the claim had been delayed because Mr H had, in effect, added a new claim  
relating to damage to his kitchen roof  part-way through. And because, at the outset, the 
loss adjuster had to make enquiries with AXA about liability given that Mr H hadnt declared 
in his insurance application that he lived within a short distance of the local river.
Mr H wasnt happy with AXAs response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. She recognised that the 
customer service had been poor at times but thought the £400 compensation paid to Mr H 
was appropriate and sufficient in all the circumstances.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence, the issues in this case are quite simple. Mr H says that AXA have handled his 
claim badly, causing avoidable delays in the completion of the agreed repairs and providing 
very poor customer service along the way.
Before I turn to the substance of the complaint, I need to clarify exactly what Im looking at in 
this decision  and specifically, what time period I can consider.
The claim was made on 16 February 2020. AXA issued their final response to Mr Hs 
complaint to them on 23 August 2021.
The way our service operates is governed by rules  the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
dispute resolution (or DISP) rules. We are bound by those rules. We cant choose to ignore 
them. And we have no powers except those set out in the DISP rules.
Essentially, those rules say that we can only consider a complaint if the financial business 
concerned (the respondent) has had an opportunity to consider and resolve that complaint 
themselves. The only exception being where the business consents to our looking into 
matters it hasnt yet had a chance to consider. We dont have consent from AXA to do that in 
this case.
That means I can only consider, in this decision, AXAs alleged actions and/or omissions up 
to the point of their final response to Mr Hs complaint  in August 2021. Anything after that 
point in time has, by definition, not yet been raised with AXA by Mr H and so cant be 
considered by us. 
Im aware that Mr Hs dissatisfaction with AXA extends beyond August 2021. Indeed, in his 
most recent correspondence with us hes told us that the claim is still on-going. Mr H would 
be entitled to make another complaint to AXA about anything thats happened after August 
2021. And he can then bring that complaint to us if hes not satisfied with AXAs response.
Im also aware that Mr H isnt entirely happy with this. He thinks the events since August 
2021 are simply a continuation of the delays and poor service hed experienced before that 
date. And that the main outcome he wants is to have the repairs completed and the claim 
finally settled.
I can understand Mr Hs views on this. However, we are constrained by the DISP rules and, 
as I say, we have no choice in the matter. Id also ask Mr H to understand that we are a 
complaint-handling service, and we arent  and couldnt be - a substitute claims handler or 
loss adjuster for AXA.
Mr H will also understand, I have no doubt, that if we were to involve ourselves in the on-
going handling of a claim, wed be trying to hit a moving target in any case. Mr H tells us his 
claim is still on-going, so even if I were to consider all the relevant events up to the present 
date, that still wouldnt  and shouldnt  preclude a further complaint from Mr H if the delays 
and poor service were to continue through the rest of the life of the claim. 
So, in summary, what Im looking at in this decision are the events between 16 February 
2020 and 23 August 2021. Anything after that will need to be the subject of a new complaint 
(to AXA, at least at first).Ill turn now to the delays in the handling of the claim  and whether they were AXAs fault.
Mr H didnt disclose, when he bought the policy, that he lived close to a river. And he was 
specifically asked. The river is at the end of Mr Hs street  which is itself less than 100 
metres long. 
The loss adjuster was entitled to ask AXA whether they felt that affected their liability. AXA 
said it didnt, but that exchange clearly took some time. That delay is not AXAs, nor their 
loss adjusters, fault. 
Mr H might consider himself fortunate that AXA did a postcode check before the policy was 
incepted and adjusted the premium in advance to reflect the risk arising from the position of 
Mr Hs house. Otherwise, they may have been entitled to settle the claim proportionally. 
The house also contained asbestos tiles, which took time to identify and remove. Again, any 
time taken up by this activity is not out of the ordinary in these circumstances or, indeed, any 
responsibility of AXAs.
Mr H did also add to his claim  or, in fact, make an additional claim  relating to his kitchen 
roof. Not a part of the property that would have been affected by the water inundation which 
was the stated cause of the initial claim. The loss adjuster was entitled to ask for further 
information to substantiate that claim and to assess the damage and repairs required. 
Again, any additional time added to the claim to resolve those issues was not AXAs fault. 
And again, they appear to have taken a very reasonable decision to accept the claim and 
pay for the repairs, in the absence of any real evidence that the damage was primarily 
caused by the storm rather than by gradual deterioration of the roof over time.
So, there were delays in the claim early on, but I cant reasonably hold AXA primarily 
responsible for any of these. 
However, all of those issues  the liability issue, the asbestos removal and the question 
about cover for the kitchen roof  were completely resolved by around May 2020. So, they 
arent the primary reason for the claim still being open and the repairs not completed by the 
end of 2022 / early 2023. In other words, in my view, they are relatively minor issues in the 
handling of the claim and, to be frank, red herrings taking all the circumstances into account.
The main reason for the  on the face of it  prolonged and serious delays in the claim (up to 
October 2020 at least) is the fact that the repairs could only be completed with Mr H out of 
his home temporarily and living in alternative accommodation. And Mr H was only moved 
into alternative accommodation in October 2020. AXAs loss adjuster had an initial schedule 
of works in hand by mid-May 2020.
Im aware that in response to our investigators view on his complaint, Mr H has said the real 
issue wasnt the alternative accommodation, but rather the fact that AXAs loss adjuster 
appointed contractors based in Birmingham  which is around 90 miles distant from Mr Hs 
property  to carry out the repair work. 
Im afraid I dont agree with that. Between May and October 2020, theres a quite protracted 
correspondence by email and telephone between Mr H and the loss adjuster about the 
repair schedule and the alternative accommodation. 
Its absolutely clear from that correspondence that theres a shared understanding that Mr H 
had to move out before the final phase of the drying out of the property and the repairs were 
completed. The house would in effect be uninhabitable for a period whilst the kitchen in particular was out of operation.
AXAs loss adjusters notes say, very early on in the handling of the claim, that alternative 
accommodation would be needed for Mr H whilst the repairs were completed. So, the 
question for me is why Mr H wasnt in alternative accommodation much sooner than October 
2020  indeed, soon after May 2020 when the loss adjuster had a schedule of works drafted.
By the time the initial issues with Mr Hs claim were resolved, particularly the questions 
about liability and the kitchen roof, the country was in lockdown due to the COVID pandemic.
Mr H says that nonetheless there were rental properties available close to his home. And 
AXA failed to secure them by delays and procrastination, in effect.
Im satisfied that, in that period, the rental property market was considerably restricted. Its 
also likely, on balance, that the time reasonably and legitimately taken for approval of rental 
costs between the loss adjuster, their property search team and AXA may not have put them 
in a good position to quickly secure any of the limited  and therefore likely very much 
sought after  properties on the market. Its difficult to blame AXA for that situation.
I can see in the exchanges between Mr H and the loss adjuster that Mr H, at one point  in 
around May 2020  acknowledges that most letting or estate agents in the area were in fact 
closed during this period.
Reasonably early on (in around May 2020), Mr H was offered alternative accommodation in 
a city around 20 miles distant from his home. But understandably, he was unwilling to move 
that far. 
The property search was also affected by the need to take a short-fixed term let (initially for 
six months). In an already restricted market, renters wanting such an arrangement are 
inevitably less attractive to landlords, who can easily rent out their properties on a longer-
term basis. 
Im aware from the loss adjusters claim notes that Mr H found a suitable property close to 
his home  in August 2020  but that fell through because the landlord was in the end 
unwilling to accept a short fixed-term let.
Its also clear that Mr H and the loss adjuster were thinking outside the box during this period 
in order to provide alternative accommodation for Mr H. Indeed, before the rental property 
was eventually secured in October 2020, Mr H and the loss adjuster were discussing the 
possibility of a motor home or pop-up kitchen pod being put in place outside the property.
This would have required removal of part of Mr Hs car port. And the delays in resolving the 
issue in this way were caused, at least in part, by Mr Hs difficulty in finding contractors to do 
that work during the pandemic. 
Eventually - and whilst alternative solutions were still being considered  Mr H found a 
property close to his home which the loss adjuster was able to secure on a six-month fixed 
term let. Mr H moved into the property in late October 2020.
In short, its difficult for me to conclude that AXA  or their appointed loss adjuster  were 
responsible for any significant part of the delays in finding alternative accommodation for 
Mr H. Both they and Mr H were the victim of a completely unprecedented and difficult set of 
circumstances surrounding the COVID pandemic, which in this case followed hot on the 
heels of a named storm and flooding in Mr Hs area.After Mr H moved out of his home, the loss adjuster had to arrange the final stripping out of 
the kitchen, to allow drying to take place. There was some confusion around this because 
Mr H had had the strip out completed by his own contractors (who were to fit the new kitchen 
afterwards).
The drying out began in January 2021 (two months after Mr H moved out of the property). 
Given the confusion about the strip out, the delay is partly explained, although it could be 
argued the drying out should have begun slightly sooner in any case. That said, AXA are 
reliant on availability of contractors to carry out this work.
Whilst the drying out was underway, it became apparent that Artex and plaster on the walls 
in some areas would need to be hacked back and replaced. This work was carried out whilst 
the drying out was on-going.
The property was finally dried out  and a drying certificate issued  in April 2021. The fact 
that the drying out took four months is not AXAs responsibility. Thats how long the 
appointed experts said it took to dry the property out effectively. And AXA are entitled to rely 
on their expertise.
Estimates for the reinstatement of the kitchen were then approved by the loss adjuster in late 
April. There was then a further delay because Mr Hs contractor had to revalidate their 
estimate due to increases in the cost of the raw materials.
In summary, I can appreciate that Mr H suffered considerable distress and inconvenience 
because of the flood in February 2020 and the fact that his property was still not fully 
repaired by August 2021. Mr H lived in very difficult circumstances during that period and he 
has my sympathy for the position he found himself in. 
But I have to bear in mind that AXA werent responsible for the named storm or the flood in 
Mr Hs area that followed on from it. Nor were they responsible for the very difficult 
circumstances brought about by the COVID pandemic and the various lockdowns and 
restrictions that followed through 2020 and 2021.
I can see from the correspondence and contact notes we have on file that Mr H was often 
given very poor customer service. He had to chase the loss adjuster and/or AXA for updates 
on progress and/or to discuss next steps on the claim. 
Often, the loss adjuster and others were slow to respond to Mr Hs queries. And Mr H is right 
to say that communication between the loss adjuster, the contractors and AXA was at times 
not very effective or timely. This wasnt helped when the individual assigned to the claim by 
the loss adjuster changed several times during a relatively short period of time.
AXA accepted those failings in their final response to Mr Hs complaint in August 2021. And 
they paid him £400 in compensation. I think that was fair and reasonable bearing in mind 
that most of the delays in the handling of Mr Hs claim were primarily outside AXAs control.
There were some minor delays caused by AXA. And the customer service in this case was 
often sadly lacking. Thats recognised in the payment AXA made to Mr H. As we make clear 
on our website, we think compensation payments between around £300 and £750 are 
appropriate where the complainant has suffered considerable distress, upset and worry 
and/or significant inconvenience and disruption over weeks or months.
As I say, I cant reasonably hold AXA responsible for most of the delays which caused the 
claim to be on-going between February 2020 and August 2021. So, in my view, they arent 
responsible for all of Mr Hs distress and inconvenience throughout that period. They are responsible for exacerbating Mr Hs trouble and upset by minor delays and poor 
customer service. And Im satisfied the £400 compensation paid by AXA fairly and 
reasonably reflects that additional  and unnecessary  distress and inconvenience they 
caused Mr H by their failings.
Mr H says he was intending to sell his house before the flood. And he says the delays in the 
repairs meant he would incur far greater taxation liabilities if he were to then sell the house.
 Weve seen no evidence to support Mr Hs assertion that he was intending to sell the 
property. It's also extremely unlikely that the house would have been ready for sale before 
those tax changes were introduced. In any case, because Im satisfied AXA didnt cause a 
significant part of the delays, it follows that Im not going to hold them responsible for Mr H 
losing out due to tax changes in the relevant period.
I should reiterate, this decision covers the period up to 23 August 2021, when AXAs final 
response to Mr Hs complaint to them was issued. And if Mr H feels that the repairs have 
been unnecessarily delayed after that date, he is entitled to make a further complaint to AXA 
 and then to us if hes dissatisfied with AXAs response.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman