DRN-2023422
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) changed their 
account from a fee-paying Premier Life account to a fee-free Premier account that included 
fee-paying Home, Tech and Travel Plus Packs, without their consent or knowledge. This 
change happened in January 2017.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she thought that Barclays had done 
what it needed to do, to make Mr and Mrs S aware of the changes made to their account.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for their complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything that 
has been provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain that, to find in favour of Mr and Mrs S, I need to be 
satisfied that Barclays has done something wrong, or has acted unfairly or unreasonably, 
when it made the changes to their account.
In this case Mr and Mrs S say they werent made aware that Packs had been added to their 
account. But prior to when the Packs were added to their account, they already had a fee-
paying Premier Life account. 
Barclays has explained it had decided to withdraw the Premier Life account from its range of 
packaged accounts  and this is something that it was entitled to do. As Mr and Mrs S still 
met the qualifying criteria to access its Premier Banking facility, Barclays transferred Mr and 
Mrs Ss Premier Life account, to a fee-free Premier account. 
However, to ensure accountholders continued to receive similar insurance cover to what was 
provided by the Premier Life account, Barclays added insurance Packs to the fee-free 
Premier account. I understand these Packs had the added benefit of allowing 
accountholders to pick and choose which combination of insurance benefits they had with 
their account. Barclays says it gave all affected account holders the chance to opt out of the 
individual Packs, should they no longer want or need the insurance products thatd 
previously been provided by the Premier Life account. Barclays refers to these changes to 
the Premier Life account as a migration.
Barclays was able to make such changes to the Premier Life account - but only if it gave 
sufficient notice to all affected accountholders. This was to ensure accountholders had 
enough information and time to understand what changes would be made to their account. 
And to ensure accountholders understood what options were available to them. I have 
therefore considered whether Barclays gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient notice of the migration 
that took place on their account.
Barclays says it sent two letters to Mr and Mrs S. One in October 2016, explaining the 
changes that were due to take place on the account. And another letter in January 2017, that 
confirmed the changes had taken place. Mr and Mrs S say they did not receive these letters.
Having looked at the letters that Barclays has provided, I can see that they make it clear that 
the feature store Packs will be added to Mr and Mrs Ss account in January 2017. And they 
made it clear that the packs would cost £25 per month until January 2018 (at which point a 
£2 per month introductory discount would end), and that Mr and Mrs S could opt out of any, 
or all, of the Packs that were being added to the account, should they wish to do so.
The letters that Barclays has provided all look to be correctly addressed. And Barclays says 
it has obtained copies of the letters from its system records. It is my understanding that a 
copy of all (or at least most) letters sent to Mr and Mrs S wouldve been recorded in its 
system records for Mr and Mrs Ss customer profile. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S say this is not evidence that the letters were physically 
posted to them. But when making my decision, I have to decide what I think was most likely 
to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. And given that a number of 
letters exist in the system records for Mr and Mrs S - I find it unlikely that they wouldve all 
been generated but not sent, given that it looks like Barclays had the correct address 
recorded for Mr and Mrs S. So overall, I think its more likely than not that they were sent to 
Mr and Mrs S.
In addition to these two letters, Barclays has also provided copies of an annual eligibility 
statement  which serves as a reminder to the account holders to check they are still eligible 
for the insurance products provided by the Packs  dated 23 February 2017. It has also 
provided copies of letters it sent to Mr and Mrs S from November 2017, February 2018, 
October 2018 and May 2019. These letters explained the various changes in costs for the 
Packs that were on Mr and Mrs Ss account.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Barclays had done what it was required to do in terms of 
informing Mr and Mrs S about the changes that were taking place on their account.
I accept its possible that some of the letters may have got lost in the post. But Barclays has 
no record of the mail being returned undelivered  which had it done, Id expect it to have 
taken further steps to contact Mr and Mrs S (as it wouldve known its letter(s) had not been 
received). But, if its the case that Mr and Mrs S were unaware of the changes made to their 
account due to mail going missing in the post, I cant reasonably say that this was because 
of something that Barclays had done wrong. 
Finally, I can see that Mr and Mrs S question why Barclays sent the letters by post, as they 
say they receive marketing information via text all the time. But I dont think sending 
information about important changes to a bank account via the post is an unreasonable 
method in which to communicate with customers. Although I note that, for any customers 
registered for online banking, the letters wouldve also been added to the Cloud It area of 
the online banking service as well. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Barclays to 
refund Mr and Mrs S the fees they paid for the Packs on their account, as I cant see that 
Barclays has done anything wrong when they were added to Mr and Mrs Ss account. My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman