DRN-1584721
 
The complaint
Mr Is complaint is about the discretionary management of his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) portfolio by LGT Vestra LLP (LGT). He says LGT unreasonably delayed 
investing his SIPP capital, causing him a loss of gains/lost opportunity for gains.
What happened
Mr I met with LGT in February 2019. Thereafter, LGT says he completed the transfers of 
£60,467 on 5 March and £315,657 on 18 April into the SIPP. Mr I has noted that he also 
made capital additions of £1,000 (each time) in May, June, July and August.
The mandate for LGTs discretionary management of Mr Is SIPP included the following:
He had a high risk profile for the SIPP.
His objective for the SIPP was Capital Growth (with reinvestment of income).
His investment time horizon for the SIPP was 10 years or more and his planned 
retirement age was 60.
The performance benchmark for the SIPP was the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth 
index.
Mr I complained on 22 July. Over the preceding weekend he had received his SIPP 
valuation statement and learnt that no investments had been made within it. He considered 
this unacceptable, given the absence of any investment restrictions in the mandate for the 
SIPP and given the high risk profile that applied. 
LGT disputed the merits of Mr Is complaint. It summarised political and market events that 
had taken place during the period since undertaking management of the SIPP which led it to 
conclude that the right time to start investments had yet to arise. It also noted that 40% of 
the SIPP had been invested, coincidentally, on 22 July shortly before Mr Is complaint was 
received. Overall, its position was that it had discretion  qualified by the mandate  on when 
to begin investments in the SIPP, that it was not uncommon to delay such investments as it 
had, that it had reasoned grounds for not investing until 22 July and that it remained 
compliant with the mandate in doing so.
Mr I disputed the value and relevance of the political and market events LGT cited. He 
maintained his core arguments and maintained that there was no credible reason(s) for the 
delayed investment of his SIPP. The parties did not resolve this dispute  about the merits of 
the complaint  but they negotiated a settlement. In principle, Mr Is settlement suggestion 
was to  reset the portfolio to 100% cash, based on the estimated value as at 22 Jul (so 
40% returning 3.68%), less any of your investment/admin fees borne so far. Thereafter, 
LGT set out the following:
A settlement calculation start date of 18 April (when the bulk of Mr Is cash was 
transferred into the SIPP) and an end date of 22 July (when 40% of the SIPP was 
invested and as proposed by Mr I).Settlement on the basis of what the SIPP would have gained if the 40% investment 
happened on 18 April  and up to 22 July  using the benchmark to determine any 
lost performance. The benchmark determination resulted in the 3.68% growth figure 
Mr I referred to in the quote above.
LGT initially calculated the settlement/adjustment figure as £2,442.48. Mr I recalculated it as 
£6,044.25, as he considered his capital additions should be properly reflected. LGT 
recalculated it further as £3,621.73 plus a refund of VAT and custody fees totalling £397.79 
 creating a final total of £4,019.52. Mr I asked for the settlement to be paid into his SIPP. 
LGT agreed and, on 13 September, said it had done so (in the amount of £4,019.52).
LGT then recalculated the settlement even further to take into account the total capital 
additions of £3,000 (up to July) that Mr I made. It set out its calculations to this service on the 
following broad basis:
The actual value of the SIPP on 22 July is a; its actual value on 18 April is b; the 
agreed settlement basis of 40% (of b) is c; so c is what, in the context of the 
settlement, would have been invested on 18 April; and the remainder 60% (of b) is 
d.
In the context of the settlement, the benchmark growth value of 3.68% on c is e.
Had c been invested on 18 April, the total value of the SIPP on 22 July would have 
been c + d + e, which is collectively (in total) f.
The first settlement figure due to Mr I would be the difference between f and a, which 
is g.
Then lost growth on Mr Is capital additions of £3,000 is calculated. This too is based 
on the start date of 18 April, for ease of calculation (despite the additions having 
been made over May, June and July), so the benchmark growth figure of 3.68%  for 
the period between 18 April and 22 July  is applied. The value of 3.68% growth on 
£3,000 is added to the refund of VAT and custody fees (£397.79) to produce a total 
which is h.
Then the grand total settlement figure becomes g + h. 
From the grand total settlement figure, the £4,019.52 already paid by LGT to Mr I is 
to be deducted, so it has now proposed to pay Mr I the balance. 
Mr Is calculation appears to differ from the above with regards to his inclusion of the last 
£1,000 capital addition he made in August  which is absent in LGTs calculation.
One of our investigators looked into the matter, agreed with LGTs position (in terms of 
merits and settlement) and concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. She did not 
consider that LGT unreasonably delayed investment of the SIPP  for broadly the same 
reasons as those given by LGT and with reference to an LGT internal portfolio construction 
document (which supported its approach towards Mr Is SIPP). She also did not consider 
that its settlement calculation was inaccurate.
Mr I disagreed with this outcome and he maintained his original positions on the merits and 
settlement of his complaint. In terms of merits, he said the portfolio construction document 
mentioned by the investigator had not previously been disclosed to him and was not signed 
off for client use. In terms of the settlement, he agrees with LGTs calculation from a to e but 
he disagrees with f; and he says LGTs calculation wrongly uses his capital additions as 
SIPP growth, thereby over stating its value and under stating the settlement figure. 
The difference between the parties, in terms of the grand total settlement figure, was 
£671.50. The investigator put Mr Is response and this difference figure to LGT. In response, 
without admission of liability and for the purpose of concluding the matter, LGT agreed to 
pay this additional amount to Mr I  that is, altogether, to pay the grand total settlement 
figure as calculated by Mr I. This was put to Mr I and, in response, he refused to agree a settlement of his complaint. He 
said that the merits of his complaint should also be upheld, especially as he was not 
informed about the portfolio construction document (or about contents within it which ought 
to have shared with him) and given that the document has disclosed steps that LGT should 
have taken with his SIPP but did not. Mr I asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ultimate aim of Mr Is complaint was to achieve compensation for growth he believes 
was lost in his SIPP due to the timing of LGTs investments. I appreciate that the parties 
could not agree on the merits of the complaint, but they shared mutual ground in the idea of 
settling it financially. As he recently reminded us, it was Mr I who initiated the settlement 
terms.
In the above context  and in the context of this services fair and reasonable approach to 
complaints  I am not persuaded that it is fair or reasonable for Mr I to have proposed terms 
for settlement, to have eventually achieved the settlement amount he wants and then to 
refuse to settle. Especially as the majority of the settlement amount appears to have already 
been paid to him (on 13 September 2019).
His points about the merits of his complaint can indeed be addressed in isolation but, 
ultimately, settlement serves the practical purpose of resolving the complaint as a whole 
(including any merit Mr I believes it has). As such, having achieved the settlement he sought 
(and having received the majority of that settlement), it is arguable that the complaint has, for 
practical purposes, been resolved. Resolved on Mr Is financial terms. In this context, the 
investigator was right not to uphold it and I endorse her conclusion.
For the sake of completeness I address the relevant issues of merit as follows:
The issue to determine relates to LGTs timing of the investments in Mr Is SIPP. I 
consider that he makes a sincere and competent argument about the irrelevance of 
the political and market events mentioned by LGT. I accept that even though the 
cited events are broadly fact based, they are arguably not extraordinary enough  in 
the context of making high risk investments in the financial markets  to automatically 
result in a suspension of investments. I do not suggest that LGTs reasons in this 
respect are irrelevant as Mr I considers them to be, but I acknowledge that it is 
reasonable for him to have challenged them.
However, the important point to note is that neither Mr I nor this service had the 
discretion  granted by Mr I and defined by a mandate  to determine how the SIPP 
was invested. It is LGT that had this discretion. Therefore, the issue is not about what 
Mr I (or this service) considers to have been relevant to the investment or otherwise 
of the SIPP. It is what LGT considered to be relevant that matters, and judgement of 
this should be based on the mandate it had and on what a reasonably minded 
discretionary investment manager would (or would not) have done.
The SIPPs high risk profile lent itself to equally high risk investments and investment 
strategies. However, a distinction must be drawn between a high risk strategy and a 
reckless strategy. I am persuaded, on balance, that LGT reasonably considered it 
reckless to begin investments in the SIPP in the political and market climate it 
described. Mr I would disagree and another investment manager might also 
disagree, but that does not automatically mean it was unreasonable for LGT to take 
such a discretionary view. It was in both Mr Is and LGTs interest for the SIPP to perform well, so I do not consider it plausible that LGT would have intentionally 
sabotaged that  in addition, I am not persuaded that it negligently did so. 
LGTs actions (or inaction) did not breach anything stipulated in the mandate for the 
SIPP. Investment timings were not prescribed within the mandate and there were no 
restriction in this respect. The implication is that LGTs discretion applied to 
investment timing. In this specific regard, it applied its discretion within the guidance 
stated in its internal portfolio construction document  which essentially said it could 
take three to six months to begin investments in a portfolio. LGT began to invest the 
SIPP three months after receiving the bulk of Mr Is capital transfer.
This was an internal guidance document for LGTs operations and none of its 
contents appear to conflict with the mandate for Mr Is SIPP, so I do not accept the 
suggestion that it should have been disclosed to him.
I also note evidence presented by LGT, in the form of a forwarded email from Mr Is 
IFA in which the IFA says he routinely advised clients to expect a possible phased 
investment approach and advised them that it could take up to a year to fully invest 
their funds into the market. This does not say that the IFA conveyed this message to 
Mr I, but it does suggest that even his IFA accepted the possibility of phased 
investments (over up to a year).
Overall, on balance and for all the reasons given above, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Is 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Is complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision 
before 27July2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman