The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to make a direct debit indemnity claim.
What happened
Mr A says he took over the running of six taxis following a firm he was involved in going out 
of business. He says he got into financial difficulties and stopped the monthly payments to a 
company I will call "B". Mr A says he resumed payments on some of the taxis, but later 
found out his payments were going towards two taxis that were off the road. He says he 
asked Lloyds to raise a direct debit indemnity claim as he didn't authorise the payments but 
it refused to do so and said he should raise the issue with B. Mr A would like the payments 
to be allocated to the correct vehicles but Lloyds and B has refused to do so.
Lloyds says the direct debits were set up by Mr A in 2017 and cancelled by him in 
September 2018. It says the direct debit guarantee is for mistakes and not disputes or 
contractual arguments, which this is. Lloyds says Mr A ought to raise his complaint with B.
Mr A brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Lloyds had raised the claim with B but thought Lloyds fairly concluded this was a 
dispute between Mr A and B. The investigator thought a direct debit had been set up and 
there was no evidence a mistake had been made, and also thought Mr A ought to raise his 
complaint with B.
Mr A doesn't accept that view and maintains he didn't authorise the direct debit and says the 
direct debit payments have been used to pay for the wrong agreements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr A will be 
disappointed with my decision. I appreciate Mr A may not wish to raise his complaint with B 
but I think this is a clear dispute between him and B for the reasons I will explain.
The direct debit guarantee is in place to deal with any payment errors rather than contractual 
disputes or arguments between parties. I can see that Mr A has told us he took over the 
payments of six taxis but stopped making payments before restarting some of them. It's 
clear he must have a number of agreements with B. Lloyds says it was Mr A that set up the 
new direct debit payments with B. So I think it likely here that what has taken place is that B 
has allocated payments to the vehicles that were not the ones Mr A was expecting payments 
to be made towards.I'm satisfied that Mr A authorised payments by direct debit to B and this 
is a dispute between him and B. I'm also satisfied Mr A has told us it was clear two wrong 
DRN-1327789agreements were being paid. So I think that Mr A accepts there was a dispute, and that B 
must be part of that dispute as it's responsible for the agreements between them.
In those circumstances I'm satisfied this is not a problem the direct debit guarantee can deal 
with. It's not, for an example, a direct debit taken for the wrong amount or on the wrong day. 
But it's a dispute between Mr A and B about which vehicles the payments were meant to go 
towards paying off. I don't think Lloyds would have any involvement in deciding that or would 
have known which agreements B was applying the payments to.
I'm satisfied that Lloyds has fairly concluded this is not an issue that is covered by the direct 
debit guarantee and has also fairly told Mr A that he needs to raise any complaint about the 
allocation of payments to B. The evidence I have seen suggests Mr A set up the direct debits 
and I don't think Mr A has provided any evidence that Lloyds made a mistake in the setting 
up or operation of the direct debits.
Overall, whilst I appreciate Mr A may not wish to, I think he will need to raise a complaint 
with B if he wishes to take matters further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman