DRN-3312931
The complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc failed to protect her from failing victim to a scam. 
What happened
In November 2021, Miss C purchased around a £1,000 worth of gift cards from Sainsburys, 
under the impression that a senior staff member at the company she works for had asked 
her to. Miss C had received an email from this colleague, asking her to arrange the gift cards 
on their behalf. So, once Miss C purchased them, she passed on the codes needed to 
redeem their monetary value to who she thought was this individual that she worked with. 
But in fact, Miss C had been tricked by a scammer who had managed to hack the email 
account of her co-worker and impersonate them. So, by sending the redemption codes to 
this email address, Miss C had effectively given away around £1,000 to a fraudster. 
Miss C complained to Santander after realising what had happened. She was unhappy that 
the bank failed to intervene and warn her about the risk of fraud associated with gift cards. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint, citing that Miss C had verified at least one of the card 
payments by text message and it couldnt reasonably be expected to have done any more.  
Miss C brought the dispute to our service, where one of our investigators considered things. 
Having done so, he didnt think that Santander could be held liable for the loss. Especially, 
as a store manager at Sainsburys had given Miss C insight about gift card scams while she 
was making the payments  yet, Miss C didnt heed this warning and still went ahead.  
Santander agrees with this assessment  but Miss C does not. In particular, she thinks that 
Santander ought to have taken account of her health conditions, which can constrain her 
decision making at times. Our investigator still wasnt persuaded it was fair to hold 
Santander liable for what Miss C lost, so the matter has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss C for taking the time to discuss the events of the day in question with me over 
the telephone, allowing me to better understand her health and general state of affairs at the 
time of making these card transactions. Given that I had the chance to discuss matters with 
Miss C, and that all parties are aware of the particulars of this case, I dont intend to detail 
them again here. Instead, Ive focused on the reasons behind my decision. 
All things considered, I cannot safely conclude that Santander should be required to refund 
Miss Cs loss under these circumstances. Ill explain why.
Its common ground that Miss C authorised the card payments, using the security credentials 
provided by Santander. In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected 
to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account. 
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account the accepted 
obligations and principles of tackling fraud  ought to have noticed that something wasnt 
right or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding a transaction before 
executing the payment. Accordingly, Ive looked into what this means for this case and 
whether Santander should have done more to prevent the payments in dispute.
There were several card payments attempted by Miss C to obtain these gift cards, with the 
single highest transaction value being £200. Santander didnt identify the first four or five as 
unusual or uncharacteristic enough to warrant an intervention. And looking through the 
recent account history leading up to November 2021, Im not satisfied it would be reasonable 
to expect Santanders systems to have been triggered by payments of this size. There is no 
persuasive evidence that they were significantly abnormal or out of character compared with 
Miss Cs typical spending. Indeed, its evident that Miss C shopped in Sainsburys quite often 
and that she tended to spend similar amounts there and in other prominent stores.  
Santander did have concerns about the final one or two payments in this sequence of 
transactions, so it sent Miss C text messages to verify that it was in fact her authorising the 
card purchases  which she replied positively to. When Miss C verified it was her carrying 
out this spending, Santander decided to take no further action. It says this exchange 
established that Miss C was authorising the transactions, appeasing the suspicions it had.  
Be that as it may, considering that Santander spotted a possible risk of fraud, the key 
question is whether it went far enough to protect Miss Cs account. I acknowledge there is a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate purchases. I also accept that the systems and procedures 
Santander puts in place to manage those competing demands are a matter for the bank.
Even so, in the particular circumstances of this case, its my judgment that Santander 
shouldve taken extra precautions. I say so because, the various regulations, plus principles 
of good practice, make it clear that a bank should try to protect its consumer from the risk of 
financial harm so far as reasonably possible  including against both authorised and 
unauthorised scams. As I see it, the measures Santander took simply verified that Miss C 
authorised the card payment(s) in question. But as Santander is aware, there is 
unfortunately an array of authorised scams that consumers fall victim to. Therefore, 
confirming authorisation was not sufficient here. In other words, a consumer can authorise a 
transaction but still be subjected to a scam, which Santander is aware of.  
As the financial professionals, it is up to bank staff to find out enough information about the 
purpose of a payment in order to make an informed decision. More often than not, a 
conversation over the phone results in further information being discovered when compared 
to a consumer just responding with a rudimentary yes or no (or something along those lines). 
To that end, if Santander had concerns about Miss Cs account, I find that it wouldve been 
more appropriate to have called her to discuss what was going on. 
Having concluded that Santander ought to have taken further steps, next I need to determine 
what difference (if any) such an intervention wouldve made. This is otherwise known as 
causation. In order for me to require Santander to refund the disputed payments on the 
grounds of causation, I would need to be satisfied that the bank calling Miss C wouldve 
prevented her loss here. On account of the evidence, Im not convinced such a conversation wouldve resulted in 
Miss C deciding not to go ahead with the purchase of the gift cards as planned. By her own 
admission, Miss C was warned by staff members at the supermarket that buying gift cards 
such as the ones in question here is a known type of scam, given that the redemption codes 
(once shared) effectively send monetary value to the recipient that cant be retrieved. I 
understand the store manager even became involved, warning Miss C about the risks 
involved. Miss C has conceded that, despite being present with this manager, and being told 
that she could suffer a financial loss, she didnt think to pause to find out more about why her 
supposed colleague had asked her to arrange the gift cards on their behalf. 
With this in mind, I find it fair to say that Miss C was given insight about how gift cards can 
be used to scam people, along with a natural pause in events afforded by being given this 
information. Which, at the very least, allowed her to think twice about what she was being 
asked to do. In spite of the forewarning, she still went ahead without double-checking. This is 
crucial, because it demonstrates that Miss C ought to have been aware of the risk of 
possible financial harm but proceeded nevertheless. Whats more, she was inclined to trust 
that the instructions she was given were genuine, even when warned about the risk involved.  
Ive considered what kind of questions Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have asked 
Miss C if it did call. When doing so, I have to bear in mind that the bank is not expected to be 
an amateur detective. As far as I am reasonably aware, Santander wouldnt necessarily 
have known that the purchases Miss C was making were actually for gift cards. The bank 
could identify that Miss C was spending in a well-known supermarket  but not necessarily 
buying this type of voucher or token. So, the context of this conversation would be a 
consumer spending in a reputable store that she frequently shopped in, making authorised 
transactions with a similar value to that of her normal spending habits. 
That being so, I think it would have been proportionate for Santander to have asked Miss C 
whether she had any concerns about the purchases, or if she was being put under any 
pressure to go ahead with them. Which, given the responses she gave to store staff, would 
most likely have resulted in Miss C providing reassurances to Santander that everything was 
OK. Even if the involvement of gift cards had come to light by Miss C divulging this to 
Santander, I cannot ignore that she had already been given some warning about these types 
of scams by the store manager. Supposing Santander did give a similar caution, or even 
went further and spoke in greater depth about the possibility of financial harm, I find it more 
likely than not that Miss C wouldve explained that she had already been told about the risks 
associated with gift cards and was happy to still go ahead as planned. 
Besides this, its also clear that this was a sophisticated scam where the perpetrators had 
managed to intercept an email account held by a superior at Miss Cs place of work. Ive 
borne in mind that Miss C had exchanged emails with this account before, so receiving 
messages was not out of character. Moreover, receiving an instruction from a manager at 
work tends to warrant cooperation. Indeed, Miss C has said herself that she didnt think it 
was her place to question the individual she thought she was providing the gift cards to. 
All of which, leads me to the conclusion that Miss C was convinced that nothing untoward 
was happening. This is reinforced by the fact that she only became aware of the scam when 
she next spoke to the manager at work and it was revealed that this person hadnt asked her 
to arrange gift cards on their behalf. 
Consequently, I cannot safely say that a warning from Santander wouldve made a material 
difference to whether Miss C proceeded to make these payments. Miss Cs circumstances
This is a finely balanced case and I appreciate why Miss C believes that Santander ought to 
have done more. Particularly, in light of the fibromyalgia condition she has, which can impact 
her decision making.
Although Ive paid due regard to this, I must also consider that there were no agreed 
restrictions or additional measures on this account with Santander. There was no 
expectation for Santander to double-check certain account movements with Miss C on 
account of her health. As I understand it, at the time of these card payments, Miss C had 
complete discretion over how she operated this account. Miss C has not made me aware 
that she specifically asked the bank to change this before these payments were lost. 
Indeed, following the scam, Santander asked Miss C whether she would like to implement 
such measures. It checked whether she needed assistance with handling her account and 
offered support, considering the health conditions she had emphasised. Its recorded that   
Miss C declined this assistance, opting to continue handling her own financial affairs unaided 
by the bank. 
In that case, even though Santander may have been on notice that Miss C has certain health 
conditions, I have to consider that Miss C has seemingly kept the autonomy to make certain 
decisions throughout. Including, the normal dispensation to decide whether to proceed with 
an intended payment. I cannot see that Santander ought to have persisted with challenging 
these payments if Miss C (for the reasons Ive explained) provided reassurances. 
In conclusion, I am sorry to disappoint Miss C on this occasion. I appreciate that her decision 
making at the time in question might not have been optimal. Nevertheless, banks are under 
an obligation to follow their customers instructions correctly and promptly so that legitimate 
payments are made as instructed. All in all, I cannot deem it fair or reasonable to necessitate 
Santander to refund the disputed payments in light of Miss Cs circumstances alone. 
This is not, however, the same as dismissing Miss Cs circumstances  and I hope Miss C 
can appreciate that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold this complaint if on 
balance the evidence suggests otherwise.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman