DRN-3944210
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about Rentokil Insurance Limited (RIL) and the length of time their 
claim has taken to progress. They also complain about the standard of the repairs that have 
been completed.
Mr H has acted as the main representative during the complaint process and so, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made or actions taken by either Mrs H or Mr H as Mr 
H throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H held an insurance policy with RIL, designed to provide protection to the 
timbers of their property as well as damage caused by damp and wall tie corrosion. In 
January 2021, Mr H made a claim on this policy for rising damp.
Due to COVID-19 restrictions at the time, there were unavoidable delays in RIL attending 
Mrs H and Mr Hs property to inspect the damage. This inspection was eventually completed 
in July 2021, and the repair work following this inspection took place in September.
But Mr H was unhappy with the quality of the repair work completed in September. RIL 
agreed to revisit the property to assess the repair work, and they agreed the work needed to 
be redone. But due to the availability of the necessary contractors, RIL were unable to 
arrange this repair work to be completed until after Christmas. So, to recognise this delay, 
RIL agreed to cover the costs of temporary decorations, and the refitting of appliances, to 
allow Mrs H and Mr H to enjoy the property over the Christmas period. And the new repairs 
were organised for January 2022.
Mr H contacted RIL in January to confirm they were unable to proceed with the works in 
January 2022, due to a personal situation which saw them needing to be away from home. 
So, the repairs were arranged for, and completed in, February 2022. But Mr H was unhappy 
with the standard of the repairs again and so, he raised a complaint.
Mr H complained about the length of time it had taken for RIL to complete the repairs. He 
explained hed been unable to eat in the property as it was unhygienic to do so and because 
of this, he wanted RIL to reimburse him for £7,000 worth of expenses hed amassed eating 
out. Mr H also wanted to be compensated for the length of time he and Mrs H were left 
without heating and electric when the appliances such as the thermostat had been removed. 
Mr H was also unhappy with the quality of the second repair, including the refitting of the 
joinery and RILs refusal to replace the door frame even though he felt this had been 
promised initially. Mr H was also unhappy with the damage he felt was left to his stone floor. 
So, Mr H wanted RIL to agree to complete the rectification work he felt was needed and to 
pay for a deep clean and full redecoration of the room.
RIL responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They agreed the claim had taken 
longer than they wouldve liked to complete. And they accepted this was in part due to the 
failed first repair. So, they offered Mrs H and Mr H £500 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience this wouldve caused. But RIL thought theyd mitigated this upset by agreeing 
to temporary decorations and refitting of appliances, costing £828.60, despite Mr Hs policy 
not covering these. And they thought the standard of the second repairs in February 2022 
were satisfactory and so, they didnt think the joinery and door frames need to be refitted. 
But they did agree to consider reimbursing Mr H for any costs incurred refitting the coving. 
To date, no invoice has been received. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the offer of £500 
compensation plus the agreement to reimburse Mr Hs the costs incurred to refit the coving 
was a fair one, when considered alongside the decoration and refitting costs RIL had already 
incurred. She explained as Mr H had confirmed the kitchen was accessible and so, able to 
be used, she didnt think RIL should reimburse Mr Hs expenses. And she was satisfied the 
caulking used on the joinery was reasonable, as it was common practice to do. So, she 
didnt think RIL needed to offer anything more. 
Mr H didnt agree, providing detailed comments explaining why. This includes, and is not 
limited to, Mr Hs instance that RIL had agreed to replace the door frame and so, he felt this 
should be honoured. Mr H also reiterated his unhappiness that he had no light switches in 
the kitchen and dining room from September to mid-December. And he had no heating in the 
whole house during this time as there was no working thermostat. Mr H also reaffirmed his 
unhappiness with the quality of the work, and the damage to his stone floor. So, he 
maintained his view that RIL should increase their offer of compensation and reimburse him 
for his expenses, as well as returning to rectify the work completed in February 2022.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs comments, but their view remained the same. And they 
provided a more detailed explanation of how they reached this. Mr H remained unhappy, 
again reiterating his belief the compensation should be increased. As Mr H remained 
unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the actions RIL have already taken, alongside their offer of 
compensation, is fair resolution to Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. And Ill explain why.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs H and Mr H. Its not in 
dispute that, due to COVID-19 restrictions and their impact, an inspection took six months to 
arrange. While RIL couldnt help this situation, I can understand the frustration this wouldve 
caused Mrs H and Mr H. So, when the inspection had taken place and the repair work had 
been agreed and booked in, I can understand why Mrs H and Mr H would expect the repairs 
completed efficiently, and to a satisfactory standard.
It's not disputed by RIL that this wasnt the case. And this led to a delay in the works being 
completed satisfactorily, as a new contractor was sought which took time to arrange. As this 
isnt in dispute, I dont intend to discuss it in detail. Instead, Ive focused on what I think RIL 
should do to put things right to adequately compensate Mrs H and Mr H for the upset and 
inconvenience this caused. Ive done this in the section below.
But Im aware Mrs H and Mr H still remain unhappy with the quality of the repair work, after 
the second repairs were completed. Specifically, Mr H is unhappy that the door frame wasnt 
replaced, that the joinery was finished using caulk and he was unhappy with the work 
completed on the coving. Its important to note its not my role to re-underwrite the claim, as I 
dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, Ive thought about the actions RIL have taken regarding the above and thought about whether they acted fairly. And I think they have.
I can see upon Mr H querying the quality of the work, RIL arranged for a qualified surveyor to 
inspect the work, as well as the images Mr H provided. And having done so, they were 
satisfied the work was of a satisfactory quality. 
While I appreciate Mr H doesnt agree, I cant see evidence to show Mr H has obtained a 
report from a specialist to support his view. So, without this, I dont think its unreasonable of 
me to rely upon the opinion of the qualified surveyor on this occasion.
Its accepted by RIL that they agreed to replace the door frame before the works began, but 
theyve stipulated this would only be if it was necessary. And I can see this surveyor 
confirmed that a replacement door frame wasnt required. I wasnt present at the time this 
original conversation was held, so I cant say for certain what was agreed. But I wouldnt 
expect RIL to replace a door frame if it wasnt required. Nor could I direct them to do so, as it 
would leave Mrs H and Mr H in a position of betterment with a newer door frame, something 
the policy itself isnt intended to do. So, I dont think I can say RIL have acted unfairly when 
not replacing the door frame on this occasion.
RIL has also explained that its standard industry practice to use caulk where needed when 
fitting the joinery if there are any gaps. From the photos Ive seen, I think this is what RIL 
have done. The surveyor working for RIL has also confirmed that they were unaware of any 
damage to the stone floor and in the photo Ive seen, Im unable to see any damage that 
would suggest to me the surveyor, and so RIL, were unfair when taking this stance. So, 
while I do appreciate Mr Hs frustrations and I dont in any way intend to disregard Mr Hs 
unhappiness with the work, I dont think Im able to say RIL have acted unfairly when 
deciding the work was completed satisfactorily to the standards theyd expect.
But I am glad to see RIL have agreed to reimburse Mr H the costs of the work he wanted 
done to the coving. To date, this hasnt been provided. If Mrs H and Mr H have paid for this 
work, they are able to provide an invoice to RIL for them to consider. From reading the 
documentation, I believe Mr H and Mrs H may have completed this work themselves. If this 
is the case, I think Mr H and Mrs H should be able to claim for the costs of the materials, if 
they have the receipts to validate this. But it would be up to RIL and Mr H to discuss directly 
whether RIL wish to make a payment for the time the work took.
Putting things right
Ive then turned to what I think RIL should do to put things right, regarding the errors theyve 
made. Its been accepted that the work carried out in September wasnt up to standard. And 
so, this meant Mrs H and Mr H had to wait an extended period of time for the second set of 
works to be completed. And I think this wouldve been frustrating and inconvenient, and 
compensation should be provided to acknowledge this. RIL have offered to pay Mr H and 
Mrs H £500 but they dont think this is enough. So, Ive thought about whether I think the 
offer is a fair one.
I recognise Mr H doesnt think the £500 takes into account the time between September  
December 2021, where he was left without lights in the kitchen and dining room as the 
sockets had been removed. And hes said he was without heating to the whole home during 
this time, as the thermostat had also been removed.
But I can see in the works authority form Mr H signed in August 2021, for the works to go 
ahead, he accepted that he would be expected to remove and subsequently refit any 
sockets, radiators and pipework from the walls schedule for treatment. And in the terms of 
the policy Mrs H and Mr H held, it explains that RIL will not cover removal or replacement of fixtures, fittings, furniture and furnishings. 
So, while I understand Mr H was unhappy with the initial works carried out, I think it was Mr 
Hs responsibility to refix the sockets, radiators, and thermostat. And I think he couldve done 
this sooner than when they actual were refitted by RIL as a gesture of good will. So, Ive 
taken this fact into account when thinking about what RIL should do.
I also recognise that in a call to our service, Mr H confirmed to our investigator that the 
kitchen itself was accessible and able to be used. And that Mrs H and Mr H chose not to use 
it during this time, as it was unhygienic due to the amount of dust created by the initial works. 
But again, in the notes included as part of the works authority that Mr H signed, I can see 
RIL made it reasonably clear that dust would be present due to the works. And the notes 
state that we regret that we can take no responsibility for cleaning or for any damage 
caused by dust.
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say RIL should cover the costs Mrs H and Mr H 
incurred eating out during this time, as I think it was their responsibility to clean the affected 
area. While I do understand the works werent completed to the satisfactory standard, Ive 
seen nothing to show me the repair works made the room inhabitable, or unable to be used 
at all.
Ive also taken into consideration the fact that RIL acknowledged there had been delays in 
rearranging the work, and they agreed to cover the costs of temporary decorations and the 
refitting of radiators and sockets, to the cost of £828.60, to allow Mrs H and Mr H to use the 
room over the Christmas period. This is work that wasnt covered under the policy Mrs H and 
Mr H held and so, I think this shows RIL taking reasonable steps to recognise and alleviate 
the inconvenience Mrs H and Mr H were suffering.
So, having considered all of the above, I think the £500 RIL have offered to pay Mrs H and 
Mr H, plus their agreement to consider reimbursement of any work undertaken to fix the 
coving, is a fair one that falls in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been 
made.
I think it fairly recognises the fact that Mrs H and Mr H were without a satisfactorily repaired 
room for four to five months more than they wouldve been, had the work been completed 
correctly in September 2021. And I think it fairly compensates Mrs H and Mr H for the upset 
and inconvenience they were caused during this time.
But I think it also reasonably takes into account the responsibility Mrs H and Mr H had to 
mitigate the inconvenience they suffered, in line with their responsibilities under the terms of 
the policy they held. And I think it fairly factors in the actions RIL took to allow Mrs H and Mr 
H use of the room over the Christmas period, incurring costs that wouldnt usually be paid 
under the terms of the policy. So, I think RIL should pay Mrs H and Mr H £500. And I would 
expect them to consider reasonable costs Mrs H and Mr H have, or will, incur fixing the 
coving, when evidence of these costs are provided.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint about Rentokil 
Insurance Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs H and Mr H £500 to recognise the upset and inconvenience theyve been 
caused; and
Consider reimbursement of any coving costs Mrs H and Mr H incur when satisfactory evidence of these costs are provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman