DRN-1793910
The complaint
Ms T says Barclays Bank UK plc, trading as The Woolwich, mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Ms T took out an MPPI policy when she took out her mortgage in 2004. Ms T paid a monthly 
amount for the MPPI. If shed made a successful claim, the policy wouldve paid out a total of 
£453.53 per month for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms T says she doesnt remember signing any documents for the MPPI, which is 
understandable considering the policy was sold around 16 years ago. Ive seen a copy of the 
mortgage application Ms T saw and signed at the time, and Ive seen that there was a 
section for MPPI. In this section Ms T had the option to tick a box if she wasnt interested in 
taking out the cover.  However, Ms T signed in this section to agree to the cover. 
Ms T says anything additional she may have signed at the time, she believed was in 
reference to the mortgage only. But I think The Woolwich presented the PPI as optional to 
her and she couldve declined the cover if she wanted to. Instead she gave her consent by 
signing to agree to the MPPI in her mortgage application.
  
The Woolwich says the MPPI was sold on an advised basis, but Ms T says she wasnt given 
any advice to take out the policy. But making a finding on this point is not crucial to the 
outcome because, had The Woolwich recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been a
suitable recommendation to have made for the reasons I set out below. As a result, I have 
considered Ms Ts circumstances as I would in the case of an advised sale. 
This means The Woolwich had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for 
her. And based on what Ive seen about her circumstances, I think that it was. I say this 
because I havent seen anything to make me think that Ms T wouldve been affected by any 
of the limitations or exclusions of the policy. For example, the exclusions around pre-existing 
medical conditions or an unusual employment status.
Its possible The Woolwich didnt tell Ms T everything she needed to know about the MPPI 
when it sold it to her. But, for the same reasons Ive outlined above, I think this policy 
wouldve been useful for Ms T had anything gone wrong, so I dont think better information 
about the policy wouldve put her off taking out the cover. 
Ms T says had she have known about the cover she wouldve made a claim on it when she 
was out of work in April 2004. However, The Woolwich have provided evidence that Ms T did 
make a claim on the policy in April 2004, and this claim paid out for 12 months.
My final decision
So, for all the reasons outlined above, I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman