DRN-4014168
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that two timeshare products were misrepresented to them and that 
the timeshare company is in breach of contract. The purchases were partly financed with 
credit provided by Vacation Finance Limited  (VFL). Because of that, Mr and Mrs D say that 
they have a claim against VFL in the same way they have a claim against the timeshare 
company. 
Mr and Mrs D have been represented in this complaint, and so any reference to their 
submissions and arguments includes those made on their behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D were existing timeshare owners and members of the Radisson Blu Resort and 
Spa in Malta. I have not been provided with any information about that membership or their 
existing arrangements. 
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs D bought a points based timeshare product from Azure XP 
Limited (Azure). They bought 12,000 points (referred to as XPs) and Level 3 club 
membership at a total cost of £27,885. XPs could be exchanged for holiday accommodation 
and experiences, including sailing trips, motor home hire, and driving experiences The 
purchase was financed in part with a 10-year £14,980 loan from VFL. 
In August 2019 Mr and Mrs D entered into a similar arrangement. This time they bought 
15,475 XPs at a total cost of £25,895, in part with the help of a £12,395 loan from VFL. 
In or around 2020 Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited went into liquidation. 
In January 2022 Mr and Mrs D contacted VFL to say they thought the XPs had been mis-
sold and that accordingly they had claims against VFL, including under section 75, section 
140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Their representatives letter 
included the following allegations:
Mr and Mrs P had been subject to pressured sales tactics.
The timeshare products had been misrepresented to them. 
The products had been sold as an investment, but there is no resale market. 
The seller is in liquidation and is therefore in breach of contract.
VFL had not carried out any proper affordability checks.   
VFL did not accept the allegations made, and Mr and Mrs D referred the matter to this 
service. One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that 
the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs D did not accept the investigators assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
I did that and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
I would comment first of all that I have not been provided with a full set of documents in 
respect of either sale. I have therefore relied to some extent on what I understand to have 
been standard form documents used by Azure companies at the relevant time. But I have 
not seen the loan agreements either. VFLs account statements however indicated that only 
Mr D was a borrower; if thats correct, only he has a relationship with VFL and only he can 
bring this complaint. 
Affordability 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. 
I note however that Mr D repaid the 2018 loan in October 2019. When the complaint was 
made in January 2022, all payments in respect of the second loan had been made in full and 
on time. He had not suggested he was having difficulty making payments. I note too that 
standard documentation included a statement signed by borrowers confirming they could 
afford the loan payments.   
Those matters do not necessarily show that VFL did carry out appropriate checks before 
agreeing the loans. They do indicate however that Mr D suffered no loss as a result of taking 
them out. They also indicate that, even if more detailed checks had been made, its likely the 
loans would have been granted in very similar terms in any event.   
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I do not understand VFL to dispute that the loans were made under pre-existing 
arrangements between it and Azure, the seller of the membership and the XPs. I have 
therefore considered what has been said about the sale and subsequent events. 
Breach of contract
As I have indicated, I have not been provided with a full set of contractual documents for 
either sale. The sale contract recorded that Mr and Mrs D had received copies of the Rules 
of Membership, the Reservation Rules, and a Deed of Trust. Whether there was a breach of 
contract depends to a very large degree on what was in those documents compared with 
what happened. 
Mr and Mrs D say however that services were not provided after Azure went into liquidation. 
I do not believe however that is the case.  On 8 July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club 
members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.
This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr and Mrs Ds purchase of XPs remained 
available to them and were unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. I note in 
addition that Mr and Mrs D have, it appears, terminated their membership contract. So they 
would not now be entitled to membership benefits in any event.  
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr and Mrs Ds statements about what they were told at the sales presentation are largely 
unsupported by any documentation. For example, there is no evidence of any attempt to sell 
the XPs. Nor is there any evidence that Mr and Mrs D have tried to use them and been 
unable to do so. 
Neither party has provided me with a complete set of the sale documents. It is my 
understanding however the Club Rules include information about how to use XPs, including 
the minimum which must be used each year and how to accelerate their usage  that is, 
how to use more than the annual minimum by paying fees sooner than would otherwise be 
the case. 
I am not persuaded either that the XPs were sold as an investment that Mr and Mrs D could 
sell. They were sold as a means of funding holiday accommodation and experiences.     
On the assumption that the sale documents were on Azures standard terms, they would 
have included, at clause 13:
This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr and Mrs D sought to 
rely was included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that they were misled, 
but, if I were to take a different view on that, I would need to consider the effect of that 
provision.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
I am satisfied that the timeshare agreement in this case was a linked transaction (that is, 
linked to the loan agreement) within the meaning of section 19 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
There was a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and the timeshare agreements were 
financed by the loans.   
An ombudsman does not have the power to make an order under section 140B. I must 
however take relevant law into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And I have the power to make a wide range of awards  including, for example, requiring a 
borrower to refund interest or charges, and to write off or reduce a loan. I am not persuaded 
however that I should do so here. 
I accept that there were links between VFL and Azure. I do not believe that this led to a 
conflict of interest in respect of their relationship with Mr and Mrs D. Azure was selling club 
membership and XPs. Whilst it introduced finance options, it was not acting as Mr and Mrs 
Ds financial adviser or agent and was under no obligation to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation or to give advice or information on that basis.    
Mr and Mrs D say too that the sales were pressured. They have not really elaborated on 
that, but I note that standard documents included a statement from the buyer to say they had 
not been put under pressure. Its significant too in my view that Mr and Mrs D had 14 days in 
which to review the documents and withdraw from both the sale and the loan agreements. If 
they thought they had agreed to any of those agreements as a result of undue pressure, it is 
not clear to me why they didnt take advantage of the option to withdraw.  
Finally, Mr and Mrs Ds representative has referred to a case in which a different lender, 
following applications to the Financial Conduct Authority and to a judge of the Upper Tribunal 
(Tax and Chancery Chamber), agreed to refund payments made under loan agreements 
with several hundred borrowers. The loans had been used to fund purchases from Azure 
companies. The main issue in that case, however, was that the Azure company which 
brokered the loans was not, at the relevant time, authorised to arrange regulated consumer 
credit agreements. The loans could not therefore be enforced without a Validation Order 
made under section 28A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. That is not the 
position here, however. By the time of the loans which are the subject of this complaint were 
taken out, the brokers were properly authorised.     
My provisional decision was not to uphold the complaint, but I invited further comment before 
I issued a final decision. Neither party has provided any further evidence or argument. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not received anything further from either party, I do not believe there is any reason 
to reach an outcome which differs from that set out in my provisional decision. In reaching 
that conclusion, however, I stress that I have reviewed everything afresh.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman