DRN-3836982
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. At the pint of supply, the car was around 10 years old and had covered just 
under 99,000 miles.
In December 2021 the car broke down. Mr W contacted the supplying dealer and the broker 
and provided a diagnostic report and quote from a third party garage which said the engine 
needed to be replaced. The broker arranged for an independent inspection of the car.
Mr W wasnt happy with what the inspection report said so he complied to Startline.
In response, Startline relied on the inspection report and said there was no evidence that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr W remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that because the engine had failed only 
three months after the car was supplied to Mr W, she didnt think the car was sufficiently 
durable. The investigator said that because the quote for repairs exceeded the value of the 
car, the fairest way to resolve the complaint was a rejection. 
Startline didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Car are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, freedom from minor 
defects, appearance and finish, safety and durability.
Id expect a second hand car such as that supplied to Mr W to have a degree of wear and 
tear and to require more repairs and maintenance than a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had a defect which made it of 
unsatisfactory quality, as opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Ive looked at the report from the third party garage and the independent report. Based on 
what Ive seen in the reports, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. The independent 
report states that there is a rattling noise from the engine and that the engine will need to be 
dismantled for further investigation. The third party garage report states that the car needs a 
new engine and included a quote for repair costs of £9,551.75.
Ive gone on to consider whether the fault means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Startline relies on the independent inspection report which states that the car 
displays internal engine faults which would not have been present or developing at the point 
of supply. On this basis, Startline doesnt accept responsibility for the fault.
However, the independent inspection report also states that the engine needs to be 
dismantled for further investigations. The report identifies undue engine noise. Theres no 
diagnosis of the fault in the report. Based on what Ive read in the report, Im not persuaded 
that the engineer reasonably concluded that the faults werent present at the point of supply.
The available evidence shows that the engine failed around 3 months after the car was 
supplied to Mr W. During this time the car had travelled around 3600 miles. Under the 
relevant legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
However, in this case, theres enough information for me to safely conclude that the engine 
wasnt sufficiently durable. I dont think a reasonable person would expect an engine to fail 
within 3 months of the car being supplied or after only 3600 miles. For these reasons Im 
persuaded that the car wasnt sufficiently durable and not of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. But 
where this doesnt make commercial sense, as is the case here (because the cost of repairs 
exceed the value of the car) then rejection is an appropriate remedy.
I think its fair that Mr W is allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr W
Reimburse Mr W the towing costs he incurred in having the car moved from the third party 
garage of £60
Refund the deposit of £3500 and pay simple interest of 8% per year on this sum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the monthly payments made by Mr W since December 2021
Pay Mr W compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience 
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ws credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 Emma Davy
Ombudsman