DRN-3917246
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refuses to refund the money he lost to an investment 
scam. 
Mr B is represented by a third party, for ease of reading, Ill refer to him alone in this 
decision. 
What happened
Mr B has explained that in 2021 he made payments from his Lloyds account to fund what he 
thought was a legitimate investment with a company that turned out to be a scam. 
Mr B first sent his payments to a crypto exchange, bought crypto and subsequently sent it 
onto the scammer. The relevant payments (the scam payments) were made from Mr Bs 
Lloyds current account using his debit card and are listed below.
Payment 
number Date DescriptionAmount 
(£) Total (£)
1 08/07/2021 Wisenex crypto-exchange £904.98 £904.98
2 15/07/2021 Wisenex crypto-exchange £2,698.95 £3,603.93
Total £3,603.93 £3,603.93
Mr B got in touch with Lloyds on 22 July 2021 to request advice about funds hed paid via a 
crypto wallet. Mr B later found out this was a scam and further contacted Lloyds to query 
what it could do about the matter. Lloyds considered raising a chargeback dispute claim but 
declined to do so as Mr B paid Wisenex who successfully transferred his crypto to the wallet 
address of his choosing. Ultimately, Lloyds didnt reimburse him. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr B referred his complaint about Lloyds to this service. As our 
Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Whilst Mr B has made reference to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, this 
only applies to domestic bank transfer payments to another person, rather than debit card 
payments. It therefore is not applicable to Mr Bs complaint, so Ive gone onto consider 
whether Lloyds ought to have reasonably suspected Mr B was falling victim to fraud or a 
scam. 
Prevention
Its common ground that Mr B authorised the scam payments in question here. He was 
tricked by scammers into instructing Lloyds to make the payments. So although Mr B didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. 
Mr B didnt pay the scammers directly and instead sent the funds to Wisenex, from there, his 
purchased crypto was sent to the scammers. So I dont think the payee alone ought to have 
caused particular concern to Lloyds. That said, taking into account the law, regulatory rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice, there are 
circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud and scams. But there is a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments.
In terms of prevention, given the size of the two scam payments and the general operation of 
Mr Bs account, Im not persuaded there would have been anything sufficiently suspicious 
about these transactions for Lloyds to have been obliged to block the payments pending 
enquiries with Mr B before letting them through. The payments were being made to a 
legitimate payment institution and payment 1 was made a week apart from payment 2  not 
in quick succession as suggested by Mr B. Ive also noted from reviewing Mr Bs account 
spend that he made undisputed bank transfer payments of £6,000 on 10 May 2021, £2,000 
on 1 June 2021, £2,000 on 22 June 2021  i.e. payments in the region of the individual scam 
payments. Mr B says the transfer of £6,000 was to his own savings account and the 
subsequent payments were for the purchase of a Bike and his daughters dental treatment. 
Aside from these, he says he didnt make payments exceeding £2,000 and his daily 
spending patterns were normally between £10 to £60. 
Despite Mr Bs suggestion that the payments to Wisenex should have warranted an 
intervention, I dont think when taken individually or collectively that the scam payments 
ought to have caused Lloyds enough concern to have reasonably suspected he may be the 
victim of fraud or a scam. I dont think the payments to Wisenex were unusual enough when 
considering Mr Bs recent undisputed spend. 
As I dont think Lloyds ought to have blocked the scam payments before allowing them 
through, I dont need to consider how Mr B may or may not have responded to a warning 
from Lloyds.  
Recovery
Having decided the above, I could only uphold this complaint if I thought Lloyds 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds and that this caused Mr Bs loss.
I can see Lloyds considered Mr Bs chargeback options and it declined to process 
chargeback claims on the grounds that it didnt have valid dispute options to do so. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme  in this case Visa -
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or 
be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr B.As Mr B didnt pay the scammers directly and instead paid Wisenex  a legitimate crypto 
exchange, his payments would have been converted to crypto before being sent to the 
scammer. I therefore think Wisenex would have likely defended any chargeback claims on 
the basis that Mr B received the service he paid for. But before a chargeback claim can be 
defended, Lloyds would need to have valid grounds to process any claim and it doesnt 
appear it would have had any because there is no dispute Mr B received crypto in exchange 
for his payments. And so, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly by choosing not to raise 
chargeback claims on Mr Bs behalf. 
I therefore dont think Lloyds could have recovered any of Mr Bs payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Bs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman