DRN-4510052
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down his private medical insurance 
claim. 
What happened
Mr J took out private medical insurance cover with Aviva. The policy start date was 25 
November 2022. It was taken out on a moratorium basis, which meant Aviva didnt need to 
cover any pre-existing conditions in the past five years. 
A few months later Mr J made a claim as hed been referred to a specialist after having 
abdominal pains. Aviva turned down the claim as it thought Mr J had experienced his 
symptoms before taking out the policy, and therefore concluded the claim fell within the 
moratorium. Unhappy with this, Mr J brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She noted there was conflicting 
information regarding the start date of Mr Js symptoms. She concluded it had been 
reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim based on the available information, but said 
shed be happy to review the matter if Mr J could provide further information from his GP. 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says the following about the moratorium:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if you had:
symptoms of
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
Ive considered the medical evidence to decide if it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude 
that Mr J had symptoms of abdominal pain before taking out the policy.
I see that on 18 November 2022, Mr J was advised by the GP surgery of the number to call 
for a bowel screening kit (known as faecal immunochemical test, or FIT). The results of this 
test came in on 29 November 2022 and were negative. The same day Mr J was reviewed by 
a GP who noted his various symptoms, including lower abdominal pains, and advised him to 
have bloods taken, ultrasound scan, and a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test. The GP 
thought the symptoms may be indicative of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) or benign 
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). The GP noted the FIT test was negative and wrote If symptoms 
persist suggest discuss with gastro team or refer for further investigation.
A referral letter from the GP surgery in February 2023 said that Mr J had ongoing 
generalised abdominal pain. And that this had been ongoing for a number of years, where 
he had tried pain relief but hadnt seen any improvements. 
Mr J has since provided an email from the GP Practice Manager which says there are no 
entries in Mr Js notes to suggest the abdominal pain started before he discussed this with a 
GP on 29 November 2022. They said the entry had been amended to reflect this.
Mr Js claim form to Aviva in March 2023 was completed by his GP, and they said Mr J had 
been aware of his symptoms for one to two weeks before the appointment of 29 November 
2022. Though in response to the question how long before the first ever visit did the patient 
have symptoms? they answered 17 years.
However, a second claim form later completed in May 2023 by a different GP said that Mr J 
had been aware of his symptoms for one to two days before the appointment of 29 
November 2022. 
Mr Js specialist said in March 2023 that Mr J had experienced his symptoms since 
December 2022. 
My conclusions
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I need to 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr J arranged a bowel screening test just before the policy started, and hasnt provided us 
with any reasoning for this, despite being given the opportunity to do so by our investigator. 
Whilst there is a national screening programme for bowel cancer using the FIT test, Mr J 
hasnt provided any evidence to suggest hed been offered this at the time. Also, the GPs 
entry of 29 November 2022 suggests the FIT test took place because Mr J was having 
symptoms.
Mr J says his symptoms started on 28 November 2022, the day before he saw the doctor. 
However, the NHS says that IBS symptoms tend to come and go over time, and can last for 
days, weeks or months at a time. It therefore seems unlikely that IBS would be considered a 
possible diagnosis if Mr J had only had his symptoms for one day.
The referral letter in February 2023 said that Mr Js symptoms had been ongoing for a 
number of years. Mr J strongly disputes this, and says his medical records dont support this 
either. I appreciate that Mr Js medical records dont specifically refer to abdominal pain prior 
to 29 November 2022 (and that the entry has now been amended because of this), but that 
doesnt mean that he hadnt experienced it and told the doctor about it in February 2023. It 
does seem as though a conversation took place at this time, since the referral also said that 
Mr J had mentioned having a hernia too. 
There is conflicting information here with regards to the start of Mr Js symptoms, but I think 
theres enough evidence to support that his symptoms started before the policy was taken 
out. I therefore find that Aviva turned down the claim fairly.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman