DRN-3536589
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her three packaged 
bank accounts. The first was an Additions account that was taken out in March 2003. The 
second account was an Additions Plus account that was taken out in January 2004 and the 
third account was a Premier Life account taken out in February 2009. 
Ms R has explained that she was not aware that these accounts were optional. 
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the accounts had been mis-
sold. Ms R disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case. I think it might also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Additions account
In relation to the Additions account, the first thing I need to consider is whether Ms R was 
given a fair choice as to whether to take out the account. 
I can see that Ms R says that she held a fee-free account prior to taking this account. So, I 
think that she wouldve been aware, in general, that Barclays offered fee-free accounts and 
that they were an option for her. 
So overall I think that Ms R agreed to the Additions account knowing that she did not have 
to. And I think its likely she agreed to it because of the benefits that it came with. I say this 
because the main benefits at the time that it was taken out were an interest free overdraft 
and breakdown cover. From what I can see Ms R did use her overdraft and made 
transactions that suggested that she drove, so I think that this was why she chose this 
account.
This account was taken out without a personal recommendation being made, so Barclays 
did not need to ensure that the account was right for Ms R. But it was required to give Ms R 
enough information about the account, so she understood what she was agreeing to. 
Given the circumstances of this complaint, I do not know what Ms R was told about the 
account. But I think that main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the account seem 
attractive. I accept that Ms R may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that 
the account came with, but I cannot see anything specific that Ms R was not told that I think 
wouldve put her off agreeing to the account 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions account was mis-
sold. 
Additions Plus
Turning now to the sale of the Additions Plus account, again I think that Ms R wouldve been 
aware that fee-free accounts were an option for her. I think its more likely that she was 
attracted to the benefits that this account came with.
When Ms R took out this account, the main difference of this account from the Additions 
account was that it came with Travel insurance. It also, at the time, came with breakdown 
cover and an interest free overdraft amongst other things. From what I can see from Ms Rs 
bank statements it does appear that she did travel. So I think that she probably agreed to 
this account at the time because of this additional benefit and to continue to benefit from the 
breakdown cover and interest free overdraft. 
Based on Barclays records I cant tell if a personal recommendation was made. But overall, 
given her circumstances, this account does seem a reasonable fit for her circumstances at 
the time of the sale. 
Again, I do not know what Ms R was told about the account. But I think that the main 
benefits wouldve been discussed, and possibly a comparison made between what the 
Additions Plus account provided compared to what she already had. I dont know what Ms R 
was told about the other benefits that the account came with, but I have not seen enough to 
be satisfied that there was something specific that she was not told about that may have 
changed her decision to take out this account. 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions Plus account was    
mis-sold either. 
Premier Life
Finally I will address the Premier Life account sale. Again, for the reasons set out above I 
think Ms R wouldve been aware that she did not have to have a paid for account and that 
this account was optional. So I think that Ms R likely took out this account due to the 
additional benefits that it came with.
In this instance, the main benefit differences were that the Premier Life account came with a 
larger interest free overdraft and Airport Lounge access. It also, amongst other things, had 
the following main benefits (these also came with the Additions Plus account) Mobile Phone 
Insurance, Breakdown cover and Travel insurance.
Based on Ms R registering for the Airport Lounge access and using her overdraft, I think that 
this was the main reason that she agreed to this upgrade. I also cant see why she could not 
use the remaining main benefits. This is supported by her claiming on the travel insurance 
policy.
This account was taken out without a personal recommendation being made, so Barclays 
did not need to ensure that the account was right for Ms R. But it was required to give Ms R 
enough information about the account, so she understood what she was agreeing to. 
Again, I think that main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the account seem 
attractive. I accept that Ms R may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that 
the account came with, but I cannot see anything specific that Ms R was not told that I think 
wouldve put her off agreeing to the account Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Premier Life account was mis-
sold. 
I understand that this will be disappointing for Ms R and I accept that with hindsight she may 
regret agreeing to these accounts. But I am satisfied, based on the available evidence, that 
Ms R agreed to these accounts knowing that she did not have to because there were 
benefits that she was attracted to at the time. I can see that she may not have used these 
benefits as much as she may have thought she would when she initially agreed to these 
accounts, but this does not mean that Barclays should not have sold these accounts to her 
in the first place. So overall I am unable to recommend that Barclays refund any of Ms Rs 
account fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman