DRN-1983751
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Prudential Assurance Company Limited provided a transfer valuation 
for his pension and following delays in processing the transfer wouldn't honour that 
valuation.
What happened
 Mr W had a pension with Prudential that he wanted to transfer to his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). On 11 February 2019 Mr W emailed Prudential requesting a quote for the 
transfer of his pension.
On 15 February 2019 Prudential sent Mr W a letter providing the transfer value of his 
pension. His policy provided a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). It stated the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £72,995.04 and gave the pensions transfer value at 
14 February 2019 as £85,510.79. The CETV was the amount needed to provide an annuity 
of the value of his GMP, based on open market annuity rates. A transfer was only possible if 
Mr Ws fund value exceeded the CETV (transfer test). Because Mr Ws fund transfer value 
was larger than the CETV the transfer test was met. The letter stated the test was 
guaranteed until 14 May 2019. The letter said that the values themselves werent 
guaranteed.
Mr W explains that he never received the letter sent to him on 15 February so had to contact 
Prudential to get the above information forwarded to him again. Only receiving a copy of it 
after 6 March.
On 15 March 2019 Prudential sent Mr W further correspondence by email. In it they provided 
an updated pension fund transfer value of £85,730.03 as of 14 March  comprising the fund 
value of £53,057.05 and a final bonus of £32,672.98. The email explained that the transfer 
value depended on the unit price of the funds in the plan at the date the transfer was 
calculated plus any final bonus applying on that date. This correspondence referred to the 
letter of 15 February 2019 re-stating the GMP and CETV provided in that letter.
Mr W complained to Prudential in March about a number of things regarding Prudentials 
service. He was unhappy that hed encountered problems when phoning them, hed been 
repeatedly told they couldnt email him, but then had emailed him in March. The letter he 
was sent on 15 February contained the wrong contact number. Prudential responded to that 
complaint on 11 April 2019. They upheld Mr Ws complaint overall, accepting that there were 
issues with their level of service. They apologised and awarded £300 compensation for the 
distress and frustration that it caused.
Mr W complained to Prudential again in June 2019. His complaint was that Prudential had 
caused delays in providing information and returning calls, and that the transfer value of his 
policy had reduced from the values quoted in February and March. Prudential responded to 
Mr Ws complaint on 22 July 2019. Prudential identified that theyd taken longer to respond 
to a request for information from Mr Ws independent financial adviser (IFA) in May 2019 
than was reasonable. Prudential said that they were always clear that the transfer valuations 
they provided depended on the fund value and the final bonus when the transfer took place. 
They didnt think that their correspondence ever indicated that the valuation in February was 
guaranteed so wouldnt honour it. They paid Mr W £100 as an apology for any distress and 
inconvenience due to delayed correspondence.
Mr W transferred his pension from Prudential to his SIPP in September 2019 for £82,647.21.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service because he was unhappy with Prudentials 
response. He thought that Prudential shouldve honoured the higher transfer value hed been 
quoted in March 2019. He didnt feel that the compensation hed received was enough for 
the inconvenience he was caused.
Our investigator looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think that Prudential 
had given Mr W guaranteed transfer valuations so didnt think it was fair to expect them to 
honour the higher valuations. She looked into the service Mr W received and thought that 
the £400 compensation Prudential had already paid was a fair way to deal with the mistakes 
theyd made.
Mr W disagreed and didnt think our investigator had properly considered all his concerns. 
So his complaint was passed to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W made a number of points in his complaint. Were an informal dispute resolution 
service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding a fair outcome Ive focussed on 
what I think are the main issues, rather than commenting on every point Mr W made. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr W. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
Mr W has provided examples of earlier complaints he raised with Prudential that theyve 
already dealt with. Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive looked at everything he provided. But 
where a business has responded to a complaint with a final response letter - explaining the 
option to refer the complaint to us within 6 months  we cant consider it after 6 months have 
passed without the business consenting. So, in the interests of fairness, the existence of 
other complaints hasnt influenced me when looking at the issues leading to this complaint.
I will address the issues Mr W raises as follows:
Guaranteed Transfer Values
I think the main issue is that Mr W thinks that the transfer values he was given in February 
and March were guaranteed for set periods  so Prudential should have honoured those 
values. I dont agree, and explain as follows:
Mr W wrote to Prudential on 11 February 2019 saying I would like to request a current quote 
and statement regarding the position of this pension. What are the current transfer values 
and eligibility for transfer? Ive also seen earlier correspondence  from both sides - where 
Mr W was requesting periodic updates from Prudential of his pension funds transfer value. 
This was done in order to know when he could transfer his Prudential Pension into his SIPP. 
I think this correspondence shows that Mr W understood that the value of his pension fund 
had to be above a certain value before he had the option to transfer it into his SIPP  the transfer test. I also think it shows that Mr W was aware that the transfer value and CETV 
were constantly changing.
Prudential wrote to Mr W on 15 February 2019 about his pension. Ive looked closely at the 
wording in that letter because Mr W formed the opinion from it that the transfer value it gave 
was guaranteed. The letter said the current transfer value at 14 February 2019 is 
£85,510.79. I dont think this implies any promise about its future value. In relation to the 
valuations, the letter stated, these values are not guaranteed. The letter explained that the 
test was guaranteed until 14 May.
I dont think it clearly explained what the test was. But Ive also considered the 
correspondence leading up to it. The letter was a response to a request from Mr W 
specifically about the eligibility to transfer his pension. Taken in context I think the letter 
provided fair information. I dont think that its fair to interpret anything in Prudentials letter as 
guaranteeing the transfer value of the fund until 14 May.
Prudential responded to further queries from Mr W about the transfer valuations. Mr W 
received an email from Prudential on 15 March 2019. That email said the value of the fund 
as of 14 March was £85,730. This was different than the transfer value in February which 
again makes me think that it was clear that the transfer value wasnt fixed. The email 
explained, in what I think was a clear way, that the transfer value was made up of the total 
value of the fund on the date of the calculation along with a final bonus that applied on that 
date. It specifically stated that the final bonus is not guaranteed and can be reduced or 
suspended at any time. I think it was clear that the transfer values represented the valuation 
on the date stated and werent guaranteed values.
Prudential delayed his pension transfer
Mr W explained that he didnt receive the letter of 15 February with his transfer guarantee. 
He had to chase Prudential to send him another copy of it, which he received between 6 and 
10 March. He says that if hed had it sooner, he couldve transferred before his final bonus 
dropped on 1 April. 
Prudential provided us a copy of the letter and Ive no reason to doubt that Prudential sent 
the letter of 15 February. I cant say why Mr W didnt receive it, but ordinarily sending 
information by post is considered reasonable.
I note that Mr W said that he wanted email correspondence. Prudential explained that they 
ordinarily send such letters by post. Mr W has shared earlier correspondence that makes it 
apparent that hed received previous letters from Prudential. Including reference to a letter 
explaining his transfer value in May 2018. In Mr Ws request for the valuation in question, he 
hadnt indicated a preference for a response by email or that hed be unable to collect his 
post. I dont think that sending the valuation to Mr W by post was unfair or unreasonable. 
And when Mr W told them that he hadnt received the letter, they resent it promptly. They 
also responded to queries he raised on 13 March with an email a couple of days later.
On 1 April 2019 the final bonus for Mr Ws fund reduced, so if Mr W had been able to 
transfer prior to that date his transfer value would have been higher. Its apparent from 
emails between Mr W and Prudential, from May and June 2018, that the transfer test was 
met then. And Mr W was aware then that he needed financial advice before he could 
transfer his pension. Mr W didnt have financial advice when he requested the February 
2019 valuation and didnt obtain it until May 2019. So even if Mr W had had Februarys 
valuation sooner, Im not satisfied that the transfer would have happened before 
1 April 2019. Prudential accepted they were too slow to provide the information requested by Mr Ws IFA 
by letter dated 17 May. They explained that the working day that they received it was 22 May 
so they should have responded by 29 May according to their target response times. They 
didnt respond until 12 June so were responsible for a delay of ten working days because of 
that mistake. Their calculation seems reasonable, so Mr Ws IFA should have had the 
information sooner than 12 June.
The information that Prudential sent the IFA on 12 June provided a figure for the CETV (on 9 
June) as £68,096. It gave the transfer value of the pension on 7 June as £79,998. The 
transfer test was therefore met and guaranteed for a further 3 months to 8 September. Ive 
looked at the information provided and think it clearly set out what the transfer value of the 
fund was as distinguished from the CETV. It quoted the value of the final bonus whilst 
making it clear that it wasnt guaranteed. Information was also included showing the value of 
the fund itself. From that, I think it was clear how the transfer value was reached.
Prudential also wrote to Mr W and his IFA on 9 June 2019 to provide them with a warning 
about the loss of guaranteed benefits when transferring his pension. This letter was different 
to the letter of 12 June - which contained the transfer value and the updated transfer test. 
This letter satisfied Prudentials obligation to provide a clear illustration of the guaranteed 
benefit Mr W was giving up. The letter states the transfer value and the comparison pension 
income Illustrations shown below relate only to your pension with guarantees. The letter 
then gives that value as £68,096. In conjunction with the letter of 12 June I think it was clear 
that this figure was the same as the CETV.
Mr Ws IFA emailed Prudential with follow up questions on 19 June. The IFA queried that the 
transfer value was correct because it was £6,000 lower than the figure given in the last 
valuation theyd received. The IFA identified though that the discrepancy was down to a drop 
in the final bonus for the policy. The IFA also wanted clarification about the terminology used 
which she felt was confusing.
Prudential were slow to respond to this request too. There doesnt appear to be an email 
answering the IFA questions until 22 July. It re-iterated the information provided earlier 
though, which was correct. The fund had reduced because the final bonus dropped which 
was what the IFA had identified. The time it took Prudential to respond was a further poor 
service, but I think that the information that had already been provided to Mr W and the IFA 
was correct and enough to decide on whether to transfer or not on 12 June.
I also note that Mr W had raised a complaint with Prudential on 19 June, which they 
responded to on 22 July. Given that FCA rules allow Prudential eight weeks to issue a final 
response to a complaint, I cant say that Prudentials response took too long. This complaint 
was about the drop in his funds value from the quotes in February and March which Mr W 
believed were guaranteed valuations. He believed that delays caused by Prudential meant 
he hadnt been able to process his transfer in time to get the guaranteed values. Mr W 
believed he was entitled to the higher value he was quoted and made it clear that the 
resolution he wanted was for the earlier quotes to be honoured. So I dont think he wouldve 
transferred his fund until he had the answer to his complaint. When Mr W had Prudentials 
response, he replied saying that he didnt accept their findings but that he would then 
proceed with the transfer.
For the above reasons, I dont think that Prudentials delay in responding to Mr Ws IFA had 
a significant effect on when the pension transfer went ahead.
Cost saving to Prudential in transferringIn his complaint, Mr W highlighted the fact that Prudential informed him that his fund was not 
large enough to cover what it would cost them to provide his GMP. Mr W complained that 
giving him a transfer value that cost to Prudential was saving them money. So he thought 
they could honour the higher transfer value.
The cost to Prudential to provide his GMP is based on the annuity rates that they apply. It 
was different to the CETV because their rates werent the same as market averages at that 
time. What an annuity might have cost Prudential though doesnt influence the transfer 
value. I explained earlier how the transfer value was reached. I can understand Mr Ws 
frustration, but I cant ask Prudential to transfer more than his actual fund was worth.
Poor Service and communication
Mr W is unhappy with the service he received in general from Prudential. His issues are 
numerous and go back over a long time. I agree that Prudential failed to provide Mr W with 
the service they should have. Ive seen evidence of letters with an incorrect contact number 
and with his name being incorrect. They acknowledge their late response to his IFA. Ive 
seen other correspondence that indicate Mr W and his IFA struggled to get clear and prompt 
answers to some of their questions.
Prudential acknowledged many of these failings in their responses to Mr Ws complaints. It 
was fair of Mr W to highlight these issues. Ive considered the impact on Mr W because of 
them. It mustve been frustrating for him to spend time and effort sending more 
correspondence than he should have. Overall though, I think that the apology offered, and 
compensation given, was a fair and reasonable way to have addressed the trouble and 
upset Prudentials poor service caused Mr W.
For the above reasons I dont believe that Prudential gave Mr W reason to believe that he 
was entitled to the transfer values quoted in any of the valuations he was provided. Similarly, 
I think that the way that Prudential addressed the issues with their service was fair and 
reasonable. So I wont be asking Prudential to do anything further to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020. 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman