DRN-2569473
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc stopped taking money to pay his monthly credit card bill 
from his account, using its right of set-off. Mr B says TSB is responsible for making sure this 
bill is paid, and it should undo the things that have gone wrong because it wasnt paid.
What happened
Mr B told us that he had an agreement with TSB where it was taking the monthly payments 
for his credit card. But then it stopped, and although hed managed to reach an agreement 
for a monthly payment with it, it didnt take that money either. He said that TSB had now 
wrecked his credit rating, and passed the matter to a debt recovery agency. 
Mr B told us about the difficult personal circumstances hes experienced. He said hed pay 
the debt, but he wanted his credit score repaired, an apology, and some compensation.
Our investigator said that Mr B had been relying on TSB to take money from his account to 
pay his credit card bill, using its right of set-off. Mr Bs complaint was that TSB then stopped 
doing this. 
Mr B paid as follows 
He paid £20 which showed on his January 2019 statement. 
No payment showed on his February statement
He paid £20 which showed on his March 2019 statement.
He paid £20 which showed on his April 2019 statement. 
No payment showed on his May statement
He paid £26 which showed on his June 2019 statement. 
Almost from the outset, these payments werent enough to cover the minimum, and arrears 
and charges were building up on Mr Bs account.
TSBs notes, and our investigators inspection of Mr Bs statements, showed that TSB then 
started to take Mr Bs monthly payment from his account, using its right of set-off. His bill 
was paid in this way for six months, from July to November 2019. 
Our investigator set out in some detail what had happened on Mr Bs credit card and his 
account, and how and when TSB had tried to contact Mr B. He noted the payments and 
missed payments set out above, and the use TSB had made of its right of set-off. 
He noted that withdrawals from Mr Bs TSB account were made on the same day, and for 
the same amounts, as payments Mr B made to his card account in February, April and May 
2019. So our investigator thought Mr B was aware that he needed to make payments to his 
card, and he knew how to do this. Our investigator said that this was also set out in the 
terms of Mr Bs card account.
Our investigator said that TSB was allowed to take payments from Mr Bs other TSB 
accounts to cover his credit card bill. But it was still Mr Bs responsibility to make the 
payments. He set out the considerable efforts that TSB made to get in touch with Mr B. 
Our investigator said that TSB had written to Mr B almost every month between early 2019 
and when his account was defaulted. Those letters drew his attention to the card debt, and 
some of them offered further information and advice on what Mr B needed to do. 
Although Mr B said he hadnt opened these, our investigator said that TSB had sent him a 
considerable number of text messages too. 
Finally, a default notice was sent on 9 July 2020 and a formal demand on 31 July 2020.
Our investigator noted that Mr Bs credit card application, available statements and letters all 
show the same address as hed given our service. Our investigator thought that TSBs letter 
were sent to the right place. 
Our investigator thought TSB had acted fairly, and he said he wouldnt ask it to do any more. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that a member of TSB staff had told him not to open any text 
messages from TSB. He said it was impossible to talk to TSB, and he felt TSB had taken the 
easy option rather than resolving this reasonably. Mr B wanted an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint. 
Mr B also told us about a different complaint, he said his TSB account had been hacked. Our 
investigator said that we could consider that if he wanted us to, but not as part of this 
complaint. This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive taken into account Mr Bs circumstances and am sorry for what he has been going 
through but Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Im sorry if this disappoints Mr B. Ill explain why Ive reached that conclusion.
In March, April, May and June 2019, Mr Bs statements said he had failed to make the full 
minimum payment onto his card due for that month. At the end of June, TSB started to use 
its right of set-off to make Mr Bs payments for him. 
I wouldnt usually expect a right of set-off to be used in the long term to cover credit card 
payments. I think Mr B shouldve either made manual payments onto his card, or set up a 
direct debit to cover the monthly payments. It looks to me as if TSB did a considerable amount to ask Mr B to make his payments. I can 
see that it repeatedly wrote to him, texted him, and rang him. I think TSB tried to help Mr B.
I know that Mr B has told us he sometimes has trouble with post, and that he doesnt open 
TSBs text messages. But TSBs notes say that it actually spoke to Mr B before it applied a 
default on this debt.
TSBs notes show that it spoke to Mr B on 9 July, before the formal demand for full payment 
was issued, and before TSB recorded a default on Mr Bs credit file. TSBs notes say that 
Mr B expected TSB to take the money from his account, and he wasnt prepared to pay the 
credit card bill. He expected TSB to sort this out.
It seems as if Mr B felt strongly that it was TSBs responsibility to take the money to cover 
his credit card bill. I just dont agree with that. I know TSB did that for a while. But I think it 
was still his responsibility to make his payments. I think TSB has tried to get Mr B to start 
making his payments again. And because he didnt do that, TSB has now recorded a default 
on his credit file. 
I dont think TSB has done anything wrong. I dont think it has to do any more now. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman