DRN-3047119
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she paid £1,500 cash into her Nationwide Building Society account, 
but only £1,300 was credited.
What happened
When the cash was paid in cash at the branch it wasnt counted by the staff. Instead it was 
placed in an automated unit and was counted later that day. The branch credited Mrs Rs 
account with £1,300.
Mrs R complained to Nationwide and they responded to say theyd counted the cash under 
dual control and reviewed CCTV of when the cash was being counted. They said the amount 
of cash was £1,300. Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint and Mrs R brought her 
complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into things for her. Our 
investigator thought that as two members of staff had checked the balance of cash from the 
automated unit and couldnt find any evidence of a mistake, it was unlikely Nationwide had 
done anything wrong.
Mrs R didnt agree with our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my final decision I think its important to clarify what Ive considered. Ive 
listened to the telephone calls between our investigator and Mr R, who is Mrs Rs 
representative. Having done so, I appreciate this was an upsetting and unnerving experience 
for both of them. Ive considered Mr Rs comments that they had no financial pressure to 
raise a complaint about the discrepancy. I want to make it clear I dont doubt that is the case. 
Ive no reason to question the motives of Mrs R in bringing the complaint as its clear she 
believes she paid in £1,500. But, in deciding a complaint like this, where there is very little 
evidence and contrasting versions of events, I must also consider what is likely to have 
happened, and ultimately I have to decide whether its likely Nationwide made a mistake or 
did something wrong. 
Mr R, who is acting as Mrs Rs representative, says that before he paid the cash into Mrs Rs 
account theyd counted it several times and is sure £1,500 was paid in. I acknowledge Mrs R 
belief that £1,500 was taken to the Nationwide branch, but I also acknowledge Nationwide 
counted the funds later that day under dual control. I heard our investigator ask Mr R if there 
was any additional evidence to show £1,500 was taken to the branch. If there had been 
some evidence to support Mrs R had taken £1,500 from another bank the same day, for 
example, with the intention of paying it into her Nationwide account, I wouldve considered 
this. Unfortunately, it seems the £1,500 in cash had built-up over a period of months 
because Mrs R had used her credit card rather than the cash shed received when drawing 
her pension. Ive no doubt this was the case as many retail outlets have moved towards 
debit or credit card payments in the last 12 months.
So, taking into account all that Ive seen, I consider there isnt enough for me to decide 
Nationwide made a mistake. I fully appreciate this isnt what Mrs R wanted to hear from me 
and Im certain she will be disappointed. But because I consider its unlikely Nationwide did 
anything wrong, I wont be asking them to credit the £200 to Mrs Rs account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman