The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Calpe Insurance Company Limited has voided his car insurance policy 
following a claim and not refunded his premiums. 
What happened
On 27 July 2019 Mr Bs policy commenced. He had taken the policy out online through a 
price comparison website. On 2 August he contacted Calpe to make a claim after he was 
involved in an accident. Calpe reviewed the claim and decided to offer Mr B the market value 
for his car. 
When reviewing the claim further Calpe found that Mr B hadnt disclosed previous 
convictions including a motor conviction. On 4 September 2019 Calpe decided to void the 
policy from the start date. It said Mr B had failed to disclose his conviction and if he had it 
wouldnt have offered him an insurance policy. Calpe also decided to retain the full premium 
Mr B had paid. 
Mr B was unhappy so he contacted this service. He wasnt happy with the offer from Calpe 
for his claim and that his policy had been voided. He said he thought his convictions were 
spent. He also said he had checked his motoring conviction on a government website which 
showed his conviction had been removed in June 2019. So this service contacted Calpe to 
make it aware of Mr Bs complaint. 
Calpe reviewed the complaint and issued a final response  dated 6 September 2019  not 
upholding the complaint. It said Mr B had been asked during the sale of the policy to declare 
any criminal or motoring convictions. And as he was aware of the convictions but didnt 
declare them he had recklessly or deliberately provided incorrect information. So it was 
entitled to not return his premiums under the terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. He said Mr B had failed to disclose his convictions 
to Calpe but he felt this was careless rather than reckless or deliberate. So he said it was fair 
for Calpe to cancel the policy from inception. This meant Calpe didnt have to pay out on Mr 
Bs claim. But it should return the premium he had paid. 
Mr B said he understood the investigators' opinion. But he would prefer if the policy was 
cancelled from the date Calpe was aware Mr B hadnt disclosed his convictions instead of 
inception. 
Calpe didnt agree with the investigators opinion. It says Mr B would have been aware of his 
convictions when he took out the policy as he wouldnt have forgotten he went to prison. And 
it is up to the policy holder to ensure the answers provided are correct. It added that as Mr B 
had a motoring conviction in the last five years, he should have made it aware of the 
conviction regardless of the information he found on the government website. 
DRN-1101193So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So the issue for me to consider is whether Mr B has misrepresented his convictions when 
taking out this policy. If so Calpe needs to show it wouldnt have offered the policy at all or 
on different terms. For Calpe to keep Mr Bs premium it must show Mr B deliberately or 
recklessly failed to disclose his convictions. 
When taking out the policy Mr B answered No to the following questions; 
Any motoring convictions, driving licence endorsements or fixed penalty points within the 
last 5 years? 
And
Do you have any unspent non-motoring convictions?
Having considered the above questions and the evidence provided Im satisfied the 
questions were clear and that Mr B hasnt answered them correctly. Therefore, I believe this 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation. And Calpe has provided information from an 
underwriter which says it wouldnt have offered Mr B a policy if it had been made aware of 
this information. 
The problem here is Calpe thinks Mr B recklessly or deliberately misrepresented his 
convictions when completing the application. So it believes Mr B isnt entitled to his annual 
premium back. 
I note that Calpe says it is up to Mr B to make sure the information is accurate. And he 
wouldnt have forgotten that he was sent to prison. But this doesnt mean by not informing it 
of his convictions Mr B was deliberately or recklessly not providing the information. Mr B took 
out the policy in July 2019. This was shortly after he checked whether his conviction had 
been removed. After seeing that it had, he applied for this policy thinking his convictions 
were all spent. So Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was careless when taking 
out the policy as he wrongly thought the motoring conviction had been removed and there 
others were spent when answering the above questions. 
I can understand why Mr B would like the policy to be cancelled from when Calpe discovered 
the misrepresentations so his claim can be paid. But I must follow the relevant regulations 
here. Under CIDRA if Im satisfied Mr B has been careless then Calpe should refund his annual premium. And its also fair for the policy to be cancelled from inception. So Im unable 
to ask Calpe to do anything more in relation to Mr Bs claim. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I've given above, I believe Calpe are not entitled to keep Mr B's premium. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
to refund Mr Bs annual premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman