DRN-2262228
The complaint
Miss C complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) continued to take direct debit payments for an 
account which she thought had been closed.
What happened
Miss c had a staff store card account with Ikano when she worked for a fashion retailer. 
When she left her job and went to live abroad there was a small balance on the account 
which she thought would be taken off her last months pay.
A few months ago, Miss C noticed that direct debit payments had been taken by Ikano every 
month. She contacted Ikano who agreed to clear the outstanding balance and close the 
account. But it refused to refund the direct debit payments which had been debited from 
Miss Cs account for several years.
Miss C doesnt think this is fair, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Ikano had acted fairly in refunding the 
fees and charges added to the account.
Miss C didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained why this service cant look at transactions which 
happened more than 6 years ago.
I can see that between June 2013 and February 2017 Miss C was charged a monthly fee of 
£12 for being over limit. Interest was also added to the account. Although Miss Cs direct 
debit was still active, the account balance stayed around the same because the monthly 
interest and charges were about the same amount as the direct debit. 
I can see that Ikano has refunded the charges which were added to the account. Miss C 
doesnt think its fair that her direct debit payments havent been refunded. 
Ive thought about whether Ikano should have handled things differently. But because Miss C 
was continuing to make direct debit payments, Ikano wasnt able to default the account. 
I think Ikano was aware in 2013 that Miss C had moved because letters sent to her about the 
account were regularly returned. Ikano couldve carried out a trace to locate Miss C at her 
new address. It has said that if it had carried out a trace it wouldnt have been able to trace 
her because she was abroad, but I think this has been said with the benefit of hindsight, 
because in 2013 Ikano didnt know that Miss C was living abroad.
That said, the terms and conditions of the agreement say that its Miss Cs responsibility to 
keep Ikano advised of any changes of address. I cant see that she did this when she went 
to live abroad. I also think that Miss C should accept some responsibility for the situation she 
found herself in. She left a balance on the account and didnt take steps to clear it before she 
moved abroad. Miss C has said that she assumed the account would be settled by a 
deduction from her final wages. Theres nothing to suggest that this was a reasonable 
assumption for Miss C to make and she mustve realised, having received her wages, that 
nothing had been deducted to settle the Ikano account.
Taking everything into consideration, I think that both Miss C and Ikano couldve done more 
to avoid this situation arising. On balance, I think the way in which Ikano sought to resolve 
the complaint was fair. It refunded the charges on the account which were added from 
October 2013. I understand that Miss C has since settled the balance on the account.
I appreciate that Miss C feels that it is unfair that she was charged interest on the account. 
But I dont think its fair to ask Ikano to refund this. There was, after all, an outstanding 
balance which Miss C must accept responsibility for because she didnt settle her account in 
full before she moved abroad and didnt update her address details once shed moved.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman