DRN-3389272
The complaint
Mr M complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc handled a foreign cheque 
payment. 
What happened
Mr M received a foreign cheque in 2019. He wanted to pay this into his account but wanted 
to know how much he would receive in pounds first. He says RBS told him someone would 
phone him before the cheque was processed. 
But Mr M didnt receive a phone call and the cheque was paid into his account in December 
2019. 
In 2021, Mr M complained to RBS as he says he couldve got a better exchange rate 
elsewhere. 
RBS upheld Mr Ms complaint and said they were sorry if the process wasnt explained 
properly. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this so he referred his complaint to our service. After the complaint 
was referred to us, RBS said they wanted to offer Mr M £100 as a further apology for the 
poor service hed received. Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and said she 
thought RBS had processed Mr Ms cheque correctly in line with the payment by collection 
process but had given Mr M the impression hed a receive a call before the payment was 
finalised  and this wasnt the case. So, the Investigator thought the £100 RBS had offered 
was fair.
 
Mr M didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he would not have allowed RBS to 
take the cheque if hed been aware they wouldnt be able to tell him exactly how much hed 
receive. He says he wouldve received almost £1,000 more at another bank. 
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In November 2019, Mr Ms foreign cheque was processed by RBS using payment by 
collection.  Payment by collection means the cheque is not paid until the money has been 
received from the bank the cheque is drawn on. This process can take several weeks and 
foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate. Because of this, its not possible to say for certain 
when the payment will be made or what the exchange rate will be on that day. So its usual 
for banks to provide indicative rates. Mr M had been given an indicative rate by RBS in 
October 2019. 
There appears to be no dispute that Mr M agreed for the cheque to be processed in this 
way. Although he says he only did so on the basis that someone would contact him before 
the payment was finalised, so he would know how much he was going to be paid.
 
RBS have provided details of their payment by collection process and Im satisfied RBS 
followed this when processing Mr Ms cheque. But it seems both parties accept the process 
wasnt explained to Mr M properly and he was left with the impression that someone would 
call him and this didnt happen. It isnt part of the process for a phone call to be made to the 
account holder before the cheque is processed. Im aware Mr M thinks it should be, but Im 
satisfied its not. Its not my role to require RBS to change their processes, so I must 
consider what RBS should do in recognition of the incorrect information they gave Mr M. 
Mr M says if RBS had given him the correct information, he wouldve paid the cheque in at a 
different bank and got a better exchange rate. Hes provided a note from a different bank 
setting out the indicative rate if they processed Mr Ms cheque by collection. But this note 
isnt dated and it doesnt specify the currency its quoting. So I dont know when Mr M 
received this quote or the currency it relates to. In any event, this rate would also likely have 
been indicative only and therefore not guaranteed. As Ive explained above, because of 
fluctuations in exchange rates its not usually possible for banks to provide the exact 
exchange rate. 
I accept Mr M may have decided to pay the cheque in at another bank if hed been made 
aware a call would not be made to him to check he was happy with the amount or rate. But 
theres no way of knowing what rate he wouldve received elsewhere, as this would still have 
been dependent on the day the cheque was paid in. So I dont think RBS need to pay Mr M 
the difference between the amount quoted by the other bank and the amount they paid into 
his account. 
RBS has offered £100 in recognition of the poor explanation of the process Mr M received in 
branch and theyd apologised for this in their final response letter. I know Mr M believes hes 
out of pocket by about £1,000 but Ive already explained why I dont think RBS needs to pay 
him that amount. I think the apology and £100 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr M by being told he would receive a call and then not receiving one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find what RBS has offered to do to put things right fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms case.
 
To put things right, I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr M £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman