DRN-3298846
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (BoS) didnt do enough to help when 
he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr L was sadly the victim of a scam. He made a number of payments through various 
channels which ultimately ended up with a firm Ill refer to as R. Mr L says R were operating 
a scam and didnt invest his money as he believed would happen at the time. This complaint 
is about a payment of £1,260 that Mr L made in September 2019 using his BoS debit card. 
The payment was made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange before presumably being 
passed on to R. 
In October 2019 Mr L asked BoS to help him get his money back and to consider a 
chargeback for this payment. In summary BoS said that as the payment went to a legitimate 
company, there were no chargeback rights. Mr L went on to complain, he felt BoS ought to 
have done more. This is particularly the case as he received a refund from another bank 
hed sent payments through. 
BoS maintained their position but did pay Mr L £75 compensation for some delays in dealing 
with his complaint. One of our Investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think BoS 
needed to do more. As he still disagreed, Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
In April 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our Investigator but for different reasons. So, Im issuing this provisional 
decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before my decision is finalised. 
BoS system shows that when Mr L first attempted his £1,260 payment it required some 
further authorisation which was completed over the phone. Ive asked BoS and they dont 
have a copy of any calls in relation to this matter. They did however say that had their fraud 
system triggered there would have been a record of this, and based on this it was just a 
routine additional verification. On balance, I dont think BoS did anything wrong in processing 
the payment. Banks do have obligations to act in their customers best interests and to be 
alert to unusual or suspicious payments. And whilst I accept that the payment was for a bit 
more than Mr L typically spent, I dont think it was so unusual that its reasonable to expect 
BoS to have done more.  
Given I dont think BoS reasonably ought to have done more when the payment was made, 
Ive gone on to consider whether they could have recovered Mr Ls loss. The only option 
available for a debit card payment like this is the chargeback scheme. 
Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I think it is good practice that one be raised if there 
is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a chargeback can only be raised against the 
merchant that received the payment. And in this case that merchant was a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange. So its most likely that they would have been able to evidence 
theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ls payment they 
exchanged and remitted an equivalent amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. As such, any chargeback was destined to fail and I think BoS declining to take this 
further was a reasonable exercise of their discretion. It wouldnt have been possible for them 
to raise a chargeback against R directly. 
For completeness I think the £75 compensation BoS have paid is fair and reasonable to 
reflect any service failings in their handling of this matter and the impact that had on Mr L. 
Im sorry to hear Mr L lost money to a scam in this way. But it would only be fair for me to tell 
BoS to reimburse him if I think they are responsible for this. And as I dont currently think 
they are, Im not intending to direct that they need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
Neither Mr L nor BoS responded with any further comments or evidence for my 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman