DRN-1568898
Complaint
Mr M has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy he bought 
from Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) in February 1998.
Background
Mr M bought the PPI when he took out a credit card with Capital One. 
The PPI included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included life cover. 
He says he didnt know he had the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Mr M disagrees, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr M says he cant remember how he bought the policy. From what Capital One have told 
me it looks like he bought it by post. That means Capital One didnt make a recommendation 
to him about buying the PPI. Although Capital One didnt have to check that it was suitable 
for his personal situation, it still needed to make sure it gave him clear information about the 
policy that wasnt misleading. 
As he applied on a postal application, Mr M filled out a credit card application form where he 
ticked a box to show hed like to be enrolled in Capital Ones PPI scheme. Capital One has 
given us a copy of the application form. Mr M could just as easily have ticked the no box to 
show he wasnt interested. So it looks to me that he thought about PPI and decided it was 
something he wanted to buy. 
I also know that Capital One usually sent out a leaflet summarising the cover. This included 
details of how Mr M couldve cancelled the policy if he wanted to, or if he thought hed made 
a mistake. But Mr M didnt do that or, as far as I can see, check with Capital One about the 
cover or seek more information. 
Ive seen that Mr M was eligible for the cover. I also dont think he was disadvantaged by any 
of the policys main exclusions. Mr M told us that he had good employer benefits, being 6 
months full pay followed by 6 months at half pay. Ive seen that Mr M also had some savings 
and says his partner would have been able to help out with the card payments if he wasnt 
working. The PPI would pay out for at least 12 months, covering 10% of the outstanding balance on 
his card. And it would avoid him having to dip into his savings or seek other sources of 
funding. Also, whilst having a partner or family member who is willing to help out is always a 
source of reassurance, personal financial circumstances can always be subject to sudden 
change. Finally Mr M told us about an endowment policy he says would cover him for illness 
and redundancy. But given that I think Mr M chose to apply for and take out the PPI to go 
with his credit card, he would need to decide for himself that it was right for him and suitable 
for his own circumstances. 
The policy cost 73p for each £100 of outstanding credit card balance. Ive no way of knowing 
exactly what Capital One did to make Mr M aware of the costs of the policy at the time he 
bought it. But I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr M couldnt afford to pay the 
policy premiums. Given that I think Mr M was aware he had a choice about buying the policy, 
I think he still would have bought it if hed been given details of the cost. 
So overall, I think Capital One did enough when selling Mr M the PPI. I cant be sure that it 
gave him all the information it should have, but I dont think hed be any worse off as a result, 
so theres nothing Capital One needs to do to put things right.
I dont find that PPI was mis-sold. Having said that, Capital One paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr M because it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told him about that. Because it didnt tell Mr M, 
 that was unfair. To put that right, Capital One paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint against 
Capital One (Europe) plc. 
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman