DRN-3644565
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a claim under 
a home contents policy.
What happened
Mr G contacted Ageas to make a claim for damage to his laptop. Ageas assessed the laptop 
and declined the claim because it said the damage to the screen was the result of wear and 
tear. It had also found a liquid in the laptop but said this hadnt caused damage. Mr G also 
hadnt provided proof of ownership for the laptop. When Mr G complained, Ageas 
maintained its decision to decline the claim.
When Mr G complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Mr G hadnt shown there was an event covered by the policy, so it was reasonable for Ageas 
to decline the claim.
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a policyholder makes a claim, there needs to be evidence of loss or damage that is 
covered by the policy. Mr G told Ageas that there was accidental damage caused to the 
laptop when the laptop fell to the floor. There was damage to the screen, which was different 
colours, Mr G thought the keys might be damaged and the laptop was very slow.
The policy described Accidental Damage as Sudden, unintentional and unexpected
physical damage caused by an identifiable external means. When Ageas inspected the 
laptop, the only damage it found to the screen was screen burn. It said this was due to wear 
and tear. It also found a sticky substance in the laptop, although it didnt find any evidence 
this had caused damage.
The laptops manufacturer provides information on the causes of screen burn. In summary, it 
is caused when an image is left on a screen for so long that the screen cant release the 
image. So, this doesnt meet the definition of being a sudden event and it also isnt caused 
by an external means. So, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim for the 
damage found to the screen. Although there seemed to be some kind of substance in the 
laptop, there wasnt evidence this had caused any damage. So, I also think it was 
reasonable that Ageas didnt deal with this.
Ageas also asked Mr G for proof of purchase. Mr G said he had received the laptop as a gift, 
so was unable to provide this. However, Im satisfied that, regardless of this, there wasnt 
evidence to show there was damage to the laptop that was covered by the policy.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Ageas to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman