DRN-3473744
The complaint
Mrs B complained to Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (MSFS) that it didnt treat her 
fairly when it declined to lend to her in 2021.
What happened
Mrs B applied to MSFS for a loan of £19,130 in 2021. The purpose of the loan was to 
consolidate a credit card and an existing loan, both with MSFS. The loan would be repaid at 
£257 a month over seven years (all figures rounded). MSFS declined to lend to Mrs B 
because it found she was overindebted and had consolidated this credit card debt a number 
of times. 
Mrs B complained to MSFS because she felt she shouldnt have been declined for credit. 
She said that shed always made her payments on time and consolidating would enable her 
to pay less each month leaving her better off financially. Mrs B was also unhappy with how 
MSFS dealt with her application and how it communicated with her. 
MSFS didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint about the loan decline but it did accept that there 
were delays in its assessment of Mrs Bs application and offered her £50 compensation. 
Mrs B didnt accept this offer and brought her complaint to us, after which MSFS increased 
its offer of compensation to £75. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. They found that MSFS didnt do anything wrong in declining to lend to Mrs B, 
although there were some delays in its application process. They concluded that MSFSs  
offer of £75 was a fair resolution. 
Mrs B didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for her complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders such as MSFS need to abide by. 
MSFS will be aware of these so I wont refer to them in detail here but to summarise  before 
entering into a credit agreement, MSFS needed to conduct an assessment to check that 
Mrs B would be able to afford the loan repayments out of her usual means without having to 
borrow further, while meeting any other payments she had a contractual or statutory 
obligation to make and without experiencing significant adverse impacts on her financial 
situation. 
The overarching requirement was that MSFS needed to pay due regard to Mrs Bs interests 
and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting 
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their 
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
Having considered everything, I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate that this 
will be disappointing for her but I dont think MSFS treated her unfairly by declining to lend to 
her in 2021. 
Mrs B says that her means were enough to afford the loan repayments, taking her existing 
commitments and living costs into account. She also says that she always made her 
repayments on time and felt shed been a good customer. However, these werent the only 
factors MSFS needed to take into account when considering her loan application. It also 
needed to consider whether or not Mrs B would be able to meet her repayments without 
borrowing, failing to meet other commitments or experiencing an adverse impact on her 
finances. 
In addition to Mrs Bs points about her means and repayment history, MSFS also considered 
that Mrs B had already had three loans from it to consolidate her credit card: almost £8,000 
in 2017, £11,000 in 2018 and over £16,000 in 2019. Shed almost reached her credit card 
limit of £5,500 and was now asking for over £19,000 to clear her card again and refinance 
her loan. In addition, MSFS learnt though its checks that Mrs B was a guarantor for a large 
secured loan of over £60,000 for a family member with monthly repayments of over £700. It 
decided not to lend to her because her indebtedness had increased over the years and this 
pattern of borrowing along with her existing committments meant that there was a risk to her 
that another loan would impact adversely on her financial situation. 
I think MSFS acted in line with the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending on 
this occasion and it didnt treat Mrs B unfairly by declining to lend to her. 
I have considered that MSFS didnt get everything right during the application process and 
that this caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs B. Mrs B had to resend some information 
to MSFS and shed received a letter to say she hadnt been in touch when in fact she had. 
MSFS acknowledged this was poor service. As set out on our website, an award of up to 
£100 might be fair where there were small administrative errors which were quickly put right. 
I think that an award in this range would be appropriate here and MSFSs offer of £75 is a 
fair reflection of its errors.
My final decision
As Ive set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint and dont require Marks & 
Spencer Financial Services plc to take any further action beyond honouring its offer to pay 
£75 to Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman