DRN-3269406
The complaint
Mr A made a claim to Shawbrook Bank Limited under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he said was misrepresented to 
him by the supplier. Shawbrook agreed with Mr As claim but hes unhappy with the remedy 
Shawbrook have offered.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around June 2013 Mr A was visited by a company Ill call G to talk about purchasing a 
solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home.
Mr A decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year (180 months) fixed 
sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The purchase price of the solar system was almost 
£11,000. The cost including the finance was close to £21,200. The system was subsequently 
installed.
When the solar system failed to provide the savings and income Mr A said hed been told to 
expect by G, he complained, via the CMC, that the system had been misrepresented to him. 
His claim was made in May 2019. He said hed been led to believe the system would pay 
for itself within the term of the loan and provide a substantial income, but that it had failed 
to provide the promised income and savings to cover the monthly loan repayments. The 
CMC said Mr A was seeking rescission of the supply contract and credit agreement.
The CMC made the following points aside from their claim that the system had been 
misrepresented. They said:
The system had been poorly installed and was not fit for purpose;
The misrepresentations made by G had created an unfair relationship under s.140A 
of the Act;
Shawbrook, by continuing to offer finance in partnership with G when they ought to 
have known about Gs wrongful conduct, were responsible for that unfair 
relationship; and
They believed Shawbrook had paid G commission.
The CMC asked Shawbrook to:
Refund all sums paid under the credit agreement and the supply contract;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the account;
Pay interest on the refund at 8% per annum calculated from the date of the contract 
and until settlement;
Pay compensation to cover the cost of removing the system and any repairs 
required; and
Pay the sum of £750 for distress and inconvenience.
In June 2019 Shawbrook agreed with Mr As complaint that the system had been 
misrepresented by G at the point of sale and made him an offer designed to put him in the 
position he would have been in if the solar system had, in fact, been self-funding. In short, 
they offered to restructure the original loan so that the repayments come to no more than the 
benefits Mr A has received and will continue to receive from the system. This meant:
Mr A would keep the solar system and any benefits and future benefits;
The original loan amount would be reduced to equal the total benefits Mr A would 
receive from the system over the original loan term (they calculated that the savings 
and income Mr A would likely receive from the system over the 15-year term of the 
loan would be £11,077.40);
Any payments already made would reduce the restructured loan balance; and
Shawbrook would pay Mr A 8% simple interest per annum on the difference between 
the monthly payments he made and monthly benefits he received (overpayments) 
by way of compensation for his loss of use of that money  this interest would further 
reduce the restructured loan balance.
Shawbrook said the 8% interest would be calculated up to 28 days from the date of their 
offer. So, if Mr A took longer than 28 days to accept the offer, the interest would not keep 
being added after day 28.
Shawbrook calculated that using this redress methodology Mr As loan account was in credit 
and he was due around a £2,500 refund.
On the matter of whether Shawbrook paid G commission, Shawbrook rejected any allegation 
of an unfair relationship and explained that whilst they had paid G commission for 
introducing the business to them, the level of that commission was not such that it would 
create an unfair relationship.
Shawbrook also acknowledged that the CMCs letter had mentioned negligent installation 
of the system, and they offered to investigate Mr As concerns about that if he contacted 
them with more detail.
Mr A wasnt happy with this. The CMC said the offer did not reflect the loss Mr A had 
incurred because hed been told the system would make him more than £77,000 but hell 
only make around £11,750 over a period of 15 years. The CMC also said that Shawbrook 
had failed to address Mr As claim under s.140A of the Act that there had been an unfair 
relationship between Shawbrook and Mr A. They said:
Had you not offered funding for the purchase of this product, thereby endorsing it, 
our client would not be in the position he finds himself in. Therefore, it is only fair and 
reasonable that our client is put back in the position he would have been in had he 
not purchased the product.
The CMC also said thered been a breach of the implied terms of the contract in that the 
system had not been installed in accordance with industry standards. They said Mr A should 
be entitled to rescind the contract and finance agreement.
However, by way of compromise the CMC asked that Shawbrook:Allow Mr A to keep the system at a cost of £11,077.40;
Allow Mr A to keep any benefits he has had from the system in terms of Feed in Tariff 
(FIT) payments and savings on his energy bills;
Pay £1,893.32 in interest on the overpayments;
Refund £591.46 in overpayments; and
Pay Mr A £1,000 for loss of expected profit.
Shawbrook responded to the CMC in August 2019 explaining that they wouldnt be reviewing 
the redress offered. So, the CMC brought Mr As complaint to this service. The CMC told us:
the system had been mis-sold to Mr A by G;
an unfair relationship within the meaning of s.140A of the Act had been created due 
to the misleading information provided to Mr A which led him to enter into linked 
agreements with Shawbrook and G;
the system had failed to provide the savings and income promised to Mr A  G told 
him the system would pay for itself within the term of the loan and earn him more 
than £77,000 over a period of 25 years;
the system is underperforming by approximately 6% against the generation estimate 
given at the point of sale; and
Mr A was promised the system would pay for itself within 15 years and be a lucrative 
investment.
The CMC reiterated that Mr A would be prepared to accept the compromise theyd set out 
to Shawbrook in settlement of his complaint.
Our investigators view
Shortly before our investigator issued her view, Shawbrook amended the way they made 
their compensation calculations, and reviewed and updated Mr As offer. They calculated the 
following:
A Total estimated financial benefits from the system over 15 years £11,074.36
B Total payments made to date £11,743.86
C Total overpayments made towards the loan £669.50
D 8% compensatory interest less 20% (basic rate income tax) £2,184.10
E Total refund payable (C+D) £2,853.60
They also added £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A.
Our investigator said Shawbrooks offer makes the solar panel system cost-neutral for Mr A 
and would remedy the financial impact Mr A had experienced from the loan repayments not 
being covered by the financial benefits of the solar panels. She concluded it was a fair and 
reasonable offer, and in line with what wed ask them to do.
Mr As response to the view
The CMC, on Mr As behalf, didnt accept this. They said the system isnt performing as well 
as it should, and Mr A wants it removed.As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Shawbrook have accepted Mr As original complaint that the 
system was misrepresented to him by G at the point of sale. And theyve offered to remedy 
that with an offer to make the system self-funding. So, instead of examining the sale of the 
system and whether it was misrepresented to Mr A, Ive only considered whether, in the 
circumstances that both parties accept that point, the offer made by Shawbrook is fair.
This service has dealt with numerous complaints about mis-sold solar panel systems and we 
have a general approach to compensation where we find that a credit provider, such as 
Shawbrook, is responsible for any loss under s.75 of the Act. Although each case is looked 
at on its own merits, our starting point is to ensure the consumer doesnt experience any 
financial loss as a result of the misrepresentation and, to achieve that, we often think that 
making the loan self-funding is the fairest outcome.
Ive seen nothing presented in Mr As case that is sufficiently different to those other 
complaints for me to consider departing from this general approach. So, I think Shawbrook 
needs to make sure Mr A pays no more than the benefits hell likely get from the system over 
the original loan term (in this case, 15 years).
In line with that approach, Shawbrook have calculated the total estimated financial benefits 
from the system over 15 years as £11,074.36 and applied a redress methodology (which has 
been agreed with this service on previous similar complaints) which means Mr A will only be 
liable for that amount, and will be compensated for anything more hes paid.
The CMC have given a number of reasons for rejecting this offer. Firstly, theyve said the 
offer doesnt reflect Mr As loss in respect of expected income. Theyve explained Mr A was 
told the system would make him more than £77,000 over 25 years, so he should be 
compensated for that. Secondly, theyve said that the system isnt performing as well as it 
should, so Mr A should be entitled to have it removed. Although, more recently, the CMC 
have confirmed that Mr As preference is to keep the solar panels.
I dont agree with the CMC that Mr A should be compensated for loss of expected income. 
I appreciate that Mr A is very likely upset about what happened here and I expect hes 
bitterly disappointed that he wont see the significant income he was told he could expect by 
G. But we wouldnt normally expect the credit provider to make a misrepresentation such as 
that, true. As Ive already explained, our general approach is to ensure the consumer doesnt 
experience any financial loss as a result of the misrepresentation. And an offer that makes 
the loan self-funding is usually the way to do that, as it makes the system cost-neutral for the 
consumer.
With regard to the systems performance, the CMC have told us that the system is 
underperforming by about 6% of the estimates Mr A was given at the point of sale 
(generating 2143 kWh as opposed to the estimated 2280 kWh). Whilst I havent been 
provided with Mr As FIT statements to review, I can see that Shawbrooks redress 
calculation relied on Mr As FIT payments up until August 2018. Thereafter, because Mr A 
was unable to provide all the FIT payment statements, Shawbrook used an assumed rate 
based on industry data and an assumed RPI rate. So, I think any issues with underperformance have already been considered within the redress offer as the statements 
he supplied would have shown that under-performance.
Im also mindful that the CMCs compromise position asked Shawbrook to allow Mr A to 
keep the system at a cost of £11,077.40, which indicates a level of agreement with 
Shawbrooks calculation of the estimated financial benefits over 15 years. I note too that the 
CMCs own calculations of what Mr A will make from the system was around £11,750 over a 
period of 15 years. If the system has developed a problem or the performance has 
significantly reduced since the CMC made its suggested compromise (July 2019), Id have 
expected the CMC to provide some evidence of that so that Shawbrook could take steps to 
get the system fixed and/or adjust their self-funding calculations to reflect any impaired 
performance, but nothing of that nature has been submitted to me. Mr A did say that the 
system had been fitted negligently. And Shawbrook offered to inspect it. Mr A didnt take 
them up on that offer, so I cant really ask Shawbrook to do anything more on that front. But 
if Mr A has more recent FIT statements hed like Shawbrook to take into account before they 
finalise their self-funding calculations, Id expect Shawbrook to consider those and make any 
necessary adjustments to the figures.
The offer Shawbrook have made makes the system cost-neutral for Mr A. Hell receive FIT 
and export tariff payments as well as savings on his energy bills. This will continue for the life 
of the system. In the absence of any evidence that the system has become dysfunctional or 
is beyond providing those benefits, I think removing the system would be disproportionate.
The methodology that Shawbrook have used to calculate the compensation due to Mr A has 
been agreed with this service on previous similar complaints, and I think its a fair and 
reasonable remedy to Mr As complaint. Shawbrook should update the figures to the date 
any payment is made and/or applied to the loan account. This includes paying 8% simple 
interest a year on the overpayments up to the date that they are effectively repaid.
I know Shawbrooks original offer sought to limit the accumulation of compensatory interest 
to a period of 28 days after the date of their offer. However, I dont think that would be fair in 
the circumstances of Mr As case.
We can rarely say for sure what the cost is to someone of being deprived of money. For 
many people, it might have influenced a range of decisions about spending and borrowing 
over a period of time. For most consumers we think a rate of 8% simple interest per year is 
appropriate to reflect the cost of being deprived of money in the past. In Mr As case the 8% 
interest is to compensate him for being deprived of the use of the money he overpaid for the 
system. And hell continue to be deprived of the use of that money until it is effectively repaid 
to him.
Of course, he could have accepted Shawbrooks offer and received his refund in 2019. But I 
dont think hes unreasonably delayed his acceptance of the offer. He had a legitimate right 
to disagree with Shawbrooks proposed remedy and pursue an impartial review by this 
service through our two-stage process. And during the time thats taken hes continued to 
not have the use of funds he would have had if the system had not been misrepresented to 
him. So, I think its fair and reasonable that Shawbrook compensate him with 8% simple 
interest a year for the entire time hes been without those funds.
Finally, I understand that the CMC put Mr As claim to Shawbrook on a number of alternative 
bases; these include that there was an unfair relationship under s.140A the Act, as well as 
the sale being in breach of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. 
For completeness, Im satisfied that none of these bases for his claim change what I think is 
fair compensation for the accepted misrepresentation of the system.Im sorry that Mr A is likely to be disappointed by my decision. Id also like to take this 
opportunity to apologise for the time Mr A has had to wait for us to reach a decision on his 
case. Weve had many similar complaints, and these have taken considerable time to work 
through.
Putting things right
Shawbrook Bank Limited has made an offer to settle this complaint, which I consider to be 
fair compensation in all the circumstances. So, I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
Recalculate the loan so that Mr A pays no more than the known and assumed 
savings and income that he will receive from the solar panel system over the 15-year 
term of the loan;
Allow Mr A to keep the solar panel system;
Calculate any overpayments made by Mr A, apply them to the loan and repay him 
any balance;
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made to the date that they are effectively repaid; and
Pay Mr A £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr A request it, Shawbrook should give him a certificate showing how much tax has 
been taken off so that he may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited should remedy Mr As complaint in the way 
Ive set out in the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman