DRN-1046869
 
The complaint
Miss S says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to her. Miss S has said the loans 
were unaffordable when taking her income and outgoings into account. And her credit 
history would show she wasnt credit worthy.
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans MYJAR provided to Miss S between July 2016 
and June 2017. The agreed loan terms were between one and 12 months. Miss Ss 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 02/07/2016 28/07/2016   1    £100.00
2 29/07/2016 25/08/2016   1    £300.00
3 26/08/2016 02/10/2016   3    £425.00
4 31/12/2016 28/05/2017 12    £725.00
5 27/06/2017 12/11/2018 12 £1,000.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ss complaint and thought loan five shouldnt have 
been given as her borrowing behaviour suggested she was becoming reliant on short-term 
lending. 
MYJAR disagreed. It said the checks it carried out were proportionate to the lending taken.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss S didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Miss S had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
Miss Ss complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Miss S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ss case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan five. I say this because:At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Miss S was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss S had been indebted to MYJAR for 11 months. So MYJAR 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss S was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that  Miss Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Miss Ss first loan was for £100 and repaid in one month and loan five was for £1,000 
and to be repaid over a much longer term of 12 months.  MYJAR has told us its 
checks about Miss Ss financial circumstances were proportionate but I think at this 
point MYJAR ought to have known that Miss S was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. And I note Miss S got 
into financial difficulties when repaying loan five which would suggest this was the 
case. 
 
Miss S was sometimes provided with a new loan within days of settling a previous 
one. And MYJAR has pointed out that Miss S repaid her loans earlier than the 
agreed term. While I agree this would have saved Miss S some interest charges this 
behaviour can be an indication that someone is juggling their finances, particularly if 
they return shortly after repayment of one loan to only replace it with another, and for 
a larger amount. Bearing in mind the nature of short-term lending I would question 
why someone would do this. This behaviour would suggest Miss S was struggling 
with her finances and was becoming reliant on this type of lending. 
 
Miss S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed MYJAR. Loan five 
was taken out 11 months after Miss Ss first. And it was for a much larger amount. 
Miss S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over 
an extended period.
 
I think that Miss S lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing for loan because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
 
the number of loans Miss S borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on 
Miss Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan five and MYJAR should 
put things right.
 Putting things right
MYJAR has told us that Miss Ss account was passed to a third party and loan five was 
eventually repaid when an agreed settlement figure was paid. So, taking this into account 
MYJAR needs to - 
take back the outstanding debt on loan five (or ensure Miss S doesnt lose
         out financially) and rework the balance outstanding on this loan to remove all        interest and charges and leave only the capital amount borrowed;
 
apply any amounts Miss Shas already paid towards loan five to reduce the
         capital outstanding and pay any amount remaining (including the 8% interest*) to          
         Miss S;
 
if theres still an outstanding balance, work with Miss S to find a suitable
         repayment arrangement that accommodates her present financial situation
         regarding this new balance;
 
the number of loans taken at loan five means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So, the entire entry about loan five should be removed from Miss Ss
         credit file.
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ss complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman