DRN-3463168
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy MBNA Limited defaulted his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S says MBNA defaulted his credit card account in August 2017 as he fell behind with 
making the repayments. Mr S says he had family matters to deal with at the time and that a 
close family member was suffering from an illness which affected the way he managed his 
finances. Mr S says this impacted him being able to make repayments on his MBNA credit 
card. So, Mr S wants MBNA to remove the default as hed like to help his Son obtain a 
mortgage which hes currently unable to do due to the default being on his credit file.
MBNA acknowledged the difficulties Mr S was experiencing at the time. However, MBNA say 
the account was defaulted correctly on 31 August 2017 and was then correctly updated to 
show it was partially settled in September 2017  this was because Mr S made a partial 
payment of around £1,600 to the outstanding balance. MBNA also confirmed the default 
marker will show until August 2023 and that they dont remove markers early as a courtesy, 
theyd only be removed if theyd been applied in error.
Our Investigator looked into Mr S concerns. In summary he said MBNA were sympathetic to 
the difficulties Mr S faced in 2016 and 2017  our Investigator saw from the information 
provided by MBNA that they stopped charging Mr S interest and fees when they went 
through his income and expenditure with them in February 2017. However, our Investigator 
felt the account had been defaulted correctly. So, he didnt ask MBNA to remove the default 
from Mr S credit file.
Mr S disagreed. He explained he was dealing with several family matters at the time the 
default was applied. And that his Son is very keen to move to a new house so Mr S would 
like to help his Son do this. Mr S also explained another creditor removed a default they 
applied to his credit file, so he feels MBNA should do the same. As a result, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr S has experienced problems with repaying this debt. I understand Mr S is 
unhappy MBNA defaulted the account and wants them to remove the default to be able to 
help his Son get a mortgage. So, for me to uphold his complaint Id need to be satisfied 
MBNA defaulted his account incorrectly.
Before defaulting an account, wed expect businesses like MBNA to follow the guidance set 
by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). They say a default may be registered when 
a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments, and by the time the 
consumer is six months behind. To determine whether MBNA acted in line with this 
guidance, Ive first reviewed Mr S statements.
MBNA have provided us with Mr S statements from January 2017 to September 2017. I can 
see Mr S last made a payment towards the outstanding balance in January 2017. In 
February 2017, Mr S contacted MBNA and went through his income and expenditure with 
them. From the internal notes MBNA provided us with, I couldnt see Mr S made MBNA 
aware of the family matters he was experiencing at the time. Following this assessment, 
MBNA identified that Mr S didnt have any disposable income to pay his creditors and so 
made the decision to suspend interest and charges on the account  this was done to stop 
Mr S outstanding credit card balance increasing. So, by doing this, I think MBNA treated Mr 
S fairly.
However, from February 2017 to when the account was defaulted in August 2017, I can see 
Mr S didnt make payments towards the account. The outstanding balance on the account in 
August 2017 was around £3,950. The lack of payments meant Mr S account was more 
three months in arrears so defaulting his credit card account around the six-month mark was 
in line with the relevant guidance Id expect MBNA to follow. So, in that respect, I do not 
consider MBNA defaulted Mr S account unfairly.
MBNA sent Mr S a letter in February 2017 which explained that following his income and 
expenditure assessment, although the amount shown on his monthly statements was still 
due, that he may make a payment amount of £0 a month, in line with the amount Mr S 
demonstrated he could afford to pay. I havent seen any information that shows me what Mr 
S demonstrated he could pay. And I think this wording is a little unclear in terms of exactly 
what Mr S was required to pay each month following the income and expenditure 
assessment. Nonetheless, even though I think this letter could have been clearer, I dont 
think this would have changed things. I say this because Mr S has been consistent in telling 
us he was dealing with lots of family matters at the time. And he also told us he had no 
choice but to allow the account to default as he was dealing with other priorities at the time. 
Additionally, MBNAs income and expenditure assessment showed Mr S had no disposable 
income. So even if MBNA were clearer in this letter about the exact amount that Mr S was 
required to pay each month, on balance, I dont think Mr S would have made any 
repayments to the account.
MBNA havent been able to provide us with an exact copy of the Default Notice they sent to 
Mr S. However, theyve sent us a copy of a template letter that was likely sent to Mr S along 
with their internal records showing the letter was sent on 10 July 2017. Having reviewed this 
letter, Im satisfied MBNA made clear the outstanding amount on the account and what Mr S 
needed to have done to prevent the account being defaulted. MBNA also encouraged Mr S 
to contact them if he was unsure what he was being asked to do.
I appreciate the default is now causing Mr S problems in securing a mortgage for his Son 
and I can understand Mr S upset. However, I do consider MBNA did the right thing when 
defaulting the account in August 2017. I understand its frustrating the default will be on Mr 
S credit file for a total of six years and I empathise with what Mr S told us about the difficult 
time he was going through dealing with family matters. However, MBNA have an obligation 
to report accurate information about this account on Mr S credit file. And unfortunately, 
despite the difficult circumstances Mr S has described about what he was faced with at the 
time, he still missed payments on his credit card account. I cant fairly require MBNA to make 
any exceptions to the way they report Mr S credit information due to these circumstances. 
Therefore, I think the default accurately reflects the operation on his account. 
Given Mr S didnt make payments towards for around six months, Im satisfied a default was 
a fair and correct course of action in Mr S circumstances. Even though other creditors may 
have removed the default markers from Mr S credit file, I cant fairly require MBNA to do the 
same thing. 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman