DRN-2351500
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1997. Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr Bs representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr B has said PPI was just included with his card. But his postal application form for the 
card had a PPI part with boxes for him to tick to say either yes or no to the cover. On 
Mr Bs form, which he signed to take the card, the yes box was ticked  and I think he 
wouldve known to tick the no box instead if he didnt want the cover. Overall, I think it 
likely Capital One made it clear Mr B didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B - so it didnt have to check the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give him enough clear and timely information 
so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it and I dont think he wouldve done so without a 
broad understanding of the cover it provided - so it looks to me like he wanted this type 
of cover. Overall it wasnt fundamentally wrong for him and he wasnt significantly 
affected by its significant exclusions or limits. He couldnt claim for existing health issues 
but the health issues hes told us of are injuries many years before the sale. From what 
hes told us, I dont think hed have expected to miss work in future with those past 
issues  so I dont think knowing more about that wouldve changed his decision to take 
the cover. His employment situation wouldnt have made it hard for him to claim either. 
Overall, I dont think it likely the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr B thought 
he was buying. From what hes told us, he wouldve got less than six months full sick 
pay from his employer - and had less than three months pay in savings or other means 
to make his payments if he couldnt work. So I think the PPI benefit wouldve been useful 
for him. It also looks like it was affordable.
With all this in mind, I dont think Mr B wouldve declined the cover had Capital One done 
anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
So I think he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr B wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting and given his circumstances I think it couldve provided a useful 
benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if hed lost his job or become too sick to work. 
And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. This means Capital One 
doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman