DRN-3944171
The complaint
The directors of business P complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited (trading 
as Precise Mortgages) handled their mortgage applications unfairly. P said they have lost 
out financially and would like to be reimbursed.
This complaint has been brought by Mr and Mrs X in their capacity as directors of P. Any 
reference to Mr and Mrs X in this decision should be taken to mean them acting in that 
capacity where appropriate. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs X are directors of their business P. They submitted two mortgage applications in 
May 2022, and they wanted to change the ownership of one property and refinance the other 
one. Mr and Mrs X said they instructed their solicitors in June 2022 and valuations for both 
properties were completed in June 2022. 
Mr X said that Precise Mortgages asked for clarification about certain payments that were 
being credited into the account and Mr X had provided statements based on what Precise 
Mortgages had asked for. Some of the transactions were redacted on the statements and 
Precise Mortgages said they wanted Mr and Mrs X to send them unredacted statements so 
that they could do a full income and expenditure assessment to assess the property 
portfolio. 
Mr X explained why some of the transactions were redacted and provided sensitive 
information as to why that was  but Precise Mortgages wanted unredacted statements in 
order to proceed. 
Precise Mortgages said they still required unredacted statements as some redactions are 
credits and debits which are causing notable fluctuations in the balance which was being 
managed within an overdraft. 
Mr X said that these transactions did not make notable fluctuations and said that only a small 
number of transactions were redacted and none of those transactions related to rental 
income and mortgage payments which is what Precise Mortgages said they wanted clarified. 
Mr and Mrs X withdrew both applications as they didnt think that Precise Mortgages had 
acted fairly or reasonably and feel that they have incurred financial losses as a result, 
namely the valuation fees, legal costs and the interest rates that they would have secured  
had the lending been approved. 
Mr and Mrs X brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt think that Precise Mortgages 
had acted unfairly and found that Precise Mortgages were entitled to rely on their own 
lending criteria to determine whether they would be prepared to lend or not  so he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr X disagreed. He said that it was only a small number of transactions that were redacted 
and none of these were what Precise Mortgages wanted clarification on. He said they 
havent been given an explanation as to why Precise Mortgages decision has been justified 
and thinks its unfair that they have taken a blanket approach. Mr X has explained again why 
certain transactions have been redacted and said the statements showed their names, the 
bank details and address. He said the running balance total was also visible and the 
complaint does not turn on the commercial decision that Precise Mortgages made, but that 
the applications had been handled unfairly. 
As Mr and Mrs X disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs X feel very strongly about this complaint and have given the 
reasons for disagreeing with the way the mortgage applications have been handled. I dont 
however think that Precise Mortgages have acted unfairly, I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs X submitted two mortgage applications via broker in May 2022 and mortgage 
illustrations were provided based on what Mr and Mrs X wanted to do. Mr X has said that he 
has lost out on interest rates that were offered at the time and that the mortgages were 
agreed in principle. 
Mortgage illustrations are not a guarantee of a mortgage being accepted or approved and I 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs X said their mortgage broker said that mortgage offers were 
imminent, but I havent seen anything from the contact notes provided by Precise Mortgages 
that confirm this was the case. 
Mr and Mrs X said they wanted the fees refunded for the valuation (along with other costs). 
The mortgage valuations for both properties were carried out in June 2022. 
One of the valuations dated 13 June 2022 came back with a nil valuation for the property. 
There were concerns that the tenants were related to the applicants. Precise Mortgages 
informed the broker about this on the same day and then an appeal was submitted on 5 July 
2022 explaining that there was no relation to the tenant. An amended valuation was received 
on 25 July 2022, and I think that Precise Mortgages were entitled to wait until this valuation 
was received before proceeding with the application.
The mortgage illustration from May 2022 does state that the valuation fee is only refundable 
if the valuation is not carried out  and as these were carried out, I think its reasonable for 
Precise Mortgages to not agree to a refund of those fees. 
The crux of the matter here is that Precise Mortgages wouldnt accept the redacted 
statements that Mr and Mrs X had provided. 
Precise Mortgages have explained that they wanted to carry out an income and expenditure 
assessment and needed to be able to review the statements fully. They said that some of 
the redactions on the statements were incoming credits and outgoing debits which were 
causing notable fluctuations in the balance which was being managed within an overdraft.
Having looked at the statements - where the balances are still clearly visible - I dont agree 
that all of those transactions which were redacted had notable fluctuations in the balance 
and some had a slightly bigger difference than others. However, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Precise Mortgages to want to see statements without any redactions. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Xs reasons for why some of these transactions had to be redacted, 
but I also understand why Precise Mortgages wanted to see full statements in order to 
complete their assessment. 
Precise Mortgages are entitled to use their commercial judgement to make a decision on 
whether they are willing to lend or not. And if there are redacted transactions on statements 
there could be potential concerns that any lender would have as they would want to be 
certain that they are lending appropriately. Precise Mortgages considered the reasons that were given by Mr and Mrs X as to why those transactions were in fact redacted but they 
rejected that, and still asked for full unredacted statements to be sent.
Mr and Mrs X decided that they didnt want to provide unredacted statements and I can see 
their communication with their broker where they decided to withdraw their applications. That 
was their choice to make. Precise Mortgages would have considered the application further 
had they of obtained the information they had asked for. But Mr and Mrs X decided to not go 
ahead.
I know that Mr and Mrs X will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant agree that Precise 
Mortgages have acted unfairly in these circumstances, so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and X to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman