DRN-4008529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that esure Insurance Limited hasnt paid a fair settlement 
when they made a claim for an escape of water under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Around Christmas time in 2020, Mr and Mrs R said they noticed plaster bubbling on a hall 
wall. They believed this was caused by a leak from a shower in an adjoining room. Mr R said 
they contacted esure and were referred to the Home Emergency (HE) provider to assist in 
finding the source of the leak. Mr R explained that the wall tiles were very heavy and 
expensive and he had trouble finding a plumber who would look at the cause of damage. 
Mr and Mrs R said the HE provider diagnosed some repairs were needed to the grout and 
sealant, which they said they had carried out. Mr and Mrs R said they were advised they 
didnt have a valid claim under their home insurance policy with esure. 
Mr and Mr R didnt renew their policy with esure, so were with another insurer when in 
October 2022 Mr and Mrs R noticed damp marks on the hall wall had become worse. Having 
contacted their current insurer, they were advised to contact esure as the home insurer at 
the time they first noticed the damage. 
esure asked Mr and Mrs R to identify the source of the leak - so they arranged for a plumber 
to attend. The plumber found extensive water damage from a leaking pipe which supplied 
the shower. The plumber began stripping out the bathroom. 
Mr and Mrs R said they had trouble getting through to esure on the phone and so made the 
decision to have the bathroom repaired and refitted. As requested by esure, they provided 
photos of the bathroom and the cause of damage. 
esure agreed to pay a cash settlement for what it said it could identify as incident related 
damage under the claim. Mr and Mrs R said esure didnt pay enough to meet the costs of 
the repairs, which they said they had put on a credit card. 
Our Investigator recommended upholding the complaint. She found the engineers report 
identified the cause of damage as being a leaking pipe, which esure accepted. She found 
the cash settlement esure had paid was just above the equivalent of an invoice provided to 
remove and refit a shower tray and pipe. As she thought esure hadnt fairly settled their 
claim, the Investigator recommended esure do the following:
reassess the claim and cover the cost of the removal of the shower, fixing the pipe, 
and refitting the shower, and the refitting of the damage caused to the floor and wall 
panels in the shower area. They should also contribute towards the cost of the wall 
panels necessary after the tiles that had to be removed. 
esure should pay simple interest at an annual rate of 8% on top of the settlement 
from the date it paid the initial amount.
Mr and Mrs R also arranged to hire a dehumidifier to remove the damp from the 
property. On receipt of evidence of the cost to hire, esure should cover the cost of 
this, plus simple interest at an annual rate of 8% from when this was done.
The Investigator didnt think it fair for esure to meet the costs to replace a matching bath and 
sink because it wasnt evident how they could have been damaged by the incident.
esure disagreed. In summary it said it is an assumption that the damage was incorrectly 
diagnosed by a HE provider and made worse. There is little evidence as the photos show 
the bathroom at the stage where it had been completely stripped. 
esure says the cost to fix the leaking pipe isnt covered under the claim. It would only be 
covered if Mr and Mrs R had accidental damage, which they didnt under their policy. 
It says it has made a cash settlement based on incident related repairs. An invoice from a 
contractor doesnt necessarily mean that all work quoted for will be covered under the claim. 
Sometimes a contractor will quote for works that arent covered. 
Our Investigator replied to esure. She agreed the costs of fixing the pipe shouldnt be 
included in the revised settlement. She explained she hadnt asked esure to meet all of the 
costs Mr and Mrs R had paid to have the bathroom refitted. But she maintained that esure 
had accepted the escape of water claim was a valid one - and so she thought it fair for esure 
to cover the costs of the damaged floor and wall panels in the shower area. 
esure didnt agree, and so the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 17 February 2023. This is what I said:
My provisional findings
Mr and Mrs Rs policy with esure says the following in the event of a claim:
What you need to do:
 ring Us, as soon as possible to prevent further damage and We will register 
Your claim details, and talk You through the next steps
 if You have been a victim of theft or vandalism report this to the police as 
We will require a crime or loss reference number
 if an accident occurs and You think You might be at fault do not admit 
liability or promise to pay a claim without discussing with Us first
 please keep any damaged items for inspection  do not dispose of any 
items
 We will require evidence of ownership and/or proof of purchase, such as 
receipts/valuations  photographs will also help Us to proceed with the claim
 if You and Your Household receive any third party claim forms, summons, 
legal documents or any other letter about the claim, it is important you forward 
these on to Us as soon possible.
Mr and Mrs R provided photos and - from the photos - kept damaged items in their 
garden for inspection by esure if necessary - as requested when Mr R called to make 
a claim. 
The policy also says:
What we will do:
 for small claims, it is sometimes possible to process these over the phone 
through Our approved suppliers.
If We are unable to do this, We may ask for estimates or quotations from You 
to support Your claim
 for larger claims, it is likely We will arrange for a claims adviser, restoration 
company, building surveyor,investigator or supplier to come out and visit You as soon as possible
Under General Conditions, esure says:
if You or Your Household do not comply with any part of these conditions, 
We have the right not to pay the claim
 do not repair any damage without Our consent
From the timeline in esures notes, Mr R called esure on 16 December 2021. He said 
hed called a week earlier about an escape of water claim. The agent said there was 
no record of his call. Mr R explained that a plumber had advised there was a leaking 
pipe and had already carried out repairs and refitting of the bathroom. 
Invoices provided by Mr R are dated between 1 and 15 December 2021. 
On 16 December 2021 as requested Mr C sent esure a copy of the invoices and 
provided photos. On review esure arranged for a Surveyor to inspect the damage. 
Notes say the reason was because it was difficult to assess the claim from the 
photos provided. This took place on 17 January 2022, so a month later. By this time, 
the repair and refit works had been completed. This may have been the case when 
Mr R called on 16 December 2021. 
Mr R said that they were in a predicament as to what to do for the best. He and Mrs 
R are in their eighties and needed a working bathroom. He said he had tried to call 
esure to discuss the claim but had trouble getting through due to a recent storm 
which meant there were long wait times. Hed had trouble getting a plumber to attend 
his home - and when he was able to find one - the damage was extensive. So he 
agreed for the works to be done with esures request for photos to be taken of the 
damage.
Three of the invoices dated between 1 and 7 December 2021 for materials add up to 
a total of £4,508.18. Mr R provided an additional invoice dated 15 December 2021 
which quotes £1,485 including VAT as a total for materials and labour. This invoice 
doesnt provide a breakdown. The works listed are:
remove shower screen and tray and tiles. Repair leaking pipe. Replaster 
shower area. Repair water damaged floor. Reclad walls and fit shower tray 
and screen 
On 17 January 2022 the appointed Surveyor reported that repairs to the damp wall 
would cost £543.27 inclusive of VAT, and quoted £970.80 to carry out incident 
related repairs to the shower. 
I note from the report that he asked esure to provide photos and quotes provided by 
Mr and Mrs R so the Surveyor could validate the claim. esure was in receipt of this 
information from 16 December 2021 which led to the appointment of a Surveyor to 
attend the property. 
The Surveyor reported that the damage had occurred from one incident and was an 
insured peril. It seems clear from the report that the Surveyor wanted to view photos 
of the damage and the quotes in order to validate the claim. Its not clear, but this 
suggests that the estimated costs of works for the damage may not have been a final 
settlement sum.
We asked esure to show how the Surveyor reached the settlement amount. In 
response on 2 August 2022, esure wrote:
Mr R had already began stripping the damaged room which made it very 
difficult for our suppliers, (name of Surveyor inserted here), to fully validate 
the claim. They have based the settlement on what has been evidenced and 
what they feel is reasonable under the circumstances.Mr R said that while the plumber was carrying out works, wall tiles fell away due to 
the damage to the wall and their weight, which led to the shower screen falling onto 
the bath causing damage. 
There isnt evidence to show that esure should include the costs of the bath and sink 
as incident related repairs. The cause of damage to the bath doesnt appear to have 
been ancillary to the incident related damage.
However, I think its reasonable to say from esures notes in January 2021 that its 
likely the cause of damage - given its location and description - relates to Mr Rs calls 
for assistance at that time. Its possible that the HE provider made a misdiagnosis. 
But as they are a separate business to esure - and there wasnt any evidence of a 
valid claim to esure in January 2021 - I dont think esure did anything wrong before 
Mr R approached it again in December 2021. 
We asked Mr R if he had any evidence of invoices or receipts for the works carried 
out in January 2021. Mr R said he doesnt have any. 
Because the works were already completed by the time a Surveyor attended, it is 
very difficult to decide on a fairly outcome. But I dont think the cash settlement esure 
has paid goes far enough to fairly settle the claim. Its not clear as to what the quote 
for £970.80 relates to for the bathroom. 
Mr R said they replaced the damaged wall tiles with cheaper wall panels. He said 
when the plumber removed the bath, they found floor tiles were soaking wet from the 
leak and had to be removed to replace water damaged floorboards.
I think its plausible that surrounding wall tiles in the shower area and floor boards 
were water damaged. So I think esure should reconsider the cash settlement it has 
paid to include these costs as I think they are for incident related damage.
esure is correct to say that the repairs to the leaking pipe shouldnt be included in the 
claim settlement as this isnt covered under the policy . 
My provisional decision 
I will consider any new representations both parties may wish to make. My provisional 
decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to ask esure Insurance 
Limited to do the following:
reassess the claim and cover the cost to remove and refit the shower, the refitting of
the damage caused to the floor and wall panels in the shower area. If esure doesnt
provide further information, and to reasonably conclude matters, Im minded to ask it
to increase its cash settlement to £3,000 as 50% of the costs of the total invoices
provided, which comes to £5,993.18 (£4,508.18 plus £1,485).
esure should pay interest on the cash settlement (or the difference if its already paid
an interim settlement) from 16 December 2021 to the date it pays Mr and Mrs R. at a
rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs R for the costs to hire a dehumidifier to remove damp from
the property - subject to proof of payment. esure should pay interest at the same rate
as above from the date of the receipt to the date it pays.
Response to my provisional decision 
esure didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs R made a number of 
representations. In summary they said:It is wrong for esure to say they didnt have accidental damage (AD) under the policy. 
They provided a copy of their policy schedule to show this. Based on this, they 
believe the costs to repair the leaked pipe should be included. 
The company that provided assistance under their HE claim were employed by 
esure. Their claim for damage to the bath should be met because it was damaged 
when the plumber removed a section of the shower screen as tiles further along the 
wall fell into the bath causing chip damage in several places. 
They havent yet had the hall wall repaired and are looking to get a quote for this. 
They didnt cash the settlement cheque they received from esure. 
Mr and Mrs R have provided a copy of the receipt for the humidifier hire. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, Ive set out the points Mr and Mrs R have raised in response to my provisional 
decision under headings below. 
The HE provider
Mr and Mrs Rs policy wording says the following:
Optional extras
If You buy Family Legal Protection (administered by business name inserted here 
and underwritten by business name inserted here), Home Emergency and Pest 
(administered by business name inserted here and underwritten by business name 
inserted here), Your premium and any fees will be collected by esure Insurance 
Limited who will act as Our agent when collecting Our fees and premiums for policies 
it does not underwrite. When Your premium is collected, transferred and held it is 
done as an agent on behalf of the Underwriters listed above. This means that once 
the premium is received it is treated as if it has been paid directly to the Underwriter. 
We do not hold client money.
So I think it was made clear to Mr and Mrs R who the underwriter was for their HE. This 
wasnt esure. A separate underwriter was listed under their policy for a claim against the HE 
provider under the policy. 
Accidental Damage and Trace and Access 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy has a separate option for Accidental Damage (AD) and Mr R is correct 
to say they had this cover. I think the fact that esure referred to this as a reason why it didnt 
cover the leaking pipe has caused unnecessary confusion as it doesnt apply to the 
circumstances in this case. Where there is an escape of water claim, some insurers offer 
Trace and Access which provides cover to identify the source of the leak. Cover is provided 
for the costs to remove and replace parts of the buildings in order to find the course of the 
leak - but it doesnt cover the costs to repair the source of the leak. This isnt an unusual 
term under Trace and Access. If Mr and Mrs R were to make a claim under AD, they would need to show the cause of 
damage was accidental and pay a separate excess to the escape of water claim for the AD. 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy says:
Trace and access
What is covered?
If the Buildings are damaged due to water escaping from water tanks, pipes or 
equipment of fixed heating systems in the Home, We will pay for the reasonable cost 
of removing and replacing any part of the Buildings necessary to find and repair the 
source of the leak and making good the removed or replaced elements of the 
Building.
What is not covered?
 We will only pay for damage where a claim is made for water damage elsewhere 
under this Policy.
 General Terms and conditions apply.
So while Mr and Mrs R are correct to say they have AD under the policy with esure, it 
doesnt apply in this case as the source of the leak (the pipe) isnt covered. This means it 
doesnt change the outcome of my provisional - and final decision here. 
Damage caused while the bathroom was being refitted by a plumber
I appreciate that Mr R has reiterated what happened when the plumber was removing the 
shower screen. But as Ive said in my provisional decision, there is no evidence for me to be 
able to safely conclude that the costs for a replacement bath should be included in the 
settlement claim for an escape of water as incident related damage.
Repairs to the hall wall behind the shower
The appointed Surveyor reported that repairs to the damp wall would cost £543.27 inclusive 
of VAT. This was included in the cash settlement esure paid along with £970.80 for the 
bathroom. 
As I havent received anything to show me this part of the settlement is unreasonable, I dont 
intend to change my award here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
do the following:
reassess the claim and cover the cost to remove and refit the shower, the refitting of 
the damage caused to the floor and wall panels in the shower area. As esure hasnt 
provided further information in response to my provisional recommendations, and to 
reasonably conclude matters, I require it to increase its cash settlement to £3,000 as 
50% of the costs of the total invoices provided, which comes to £5,993.18 (£4,508.18 
plus £1,485).
As Mr R says he didnt cash the settlement cheques he received, esure will need to 
send further payment for the above and add the £543.27 for the hall wall damage 
under the claim, based on the Surveyors assessment, and cancel any uncashed 
settlement cheques for this claim. 
esure should pay interest on the cash settlement (or the difference if its already paid an interim settlement) from 16 December 2021 to the date it pays Mr and Mrs R. at a 
rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs R for the costs to hire a dehumidifier to remove damp from 
the property - subject to proof of payment (copy receipt attached). esure should pay 
interest at the same rate as above from the date of the receipt to the date it pays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman