DRN-4121288
The complaint
Mr O complains about the actions Dura Capital Limited took to cash out an investment he 
held in an ISA. He is unhappy with how the maturity of his investment was handled and this 
has led to him losing the ISA wrapper for the funds. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr O invested £10,000 in a structure product with Dura. The plan had a flexible 
maturity date. 
On 1 June 22, Dura wrote to Mr O to tell him his investment had matured early on 31 May 
2022  and it needed his instructions as to how he would like to proceed. The letter detailed 
various options for Mr O to select from - which included reinvesting the funds, moving to a 
new ISA manager or encashing the funds so they are transferred to a bank account. Mr O 
didnt reply to the maturity options letter in the specified timescale. The default option was to 
encash his investment, as Dura didnt hear from Mr O this option was actioned. 
In December 2022, Mr O complained to Dura about the handling of the maturity of his 
investment and the lack of warning prior to losing its ISA wrapper. He said he didnt want to 
cash out his ISA. He also said he wasnt contacted by email or phone and wasnt given any 
reminders before the encashment happened. 
Dura didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
The Terms and Conditions of the investment explain it is able to mature plans earlier 
than the maturity date. When this happens, it writes to clients to give maturity options 
and allows three months to return their instructions. If no instruction is given, the 
terms say it will return the funds in cash and the ISA status will be lost.
Both Mr O, and the intermediary that arrange the investment, were sent a maturity 
letter on 1 June 2022 setting out the options. It is unable to follow up on every 
maturity instruction by email or telephone. The letter also explained that if no 
instruction is received within three months of maturity the cash proceeds will be 
returned to the client's designated bank account. As this was not an error on its part it 
is unable to re-in state the ISA status of this money as per HMRC regulations. 
Mr O didnt accept the response, so referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. He reiterated his concerns and also said Duras processes dont have regard for its 
clients and it should also recognise that not everyone has excellent eyesight and perfect 
health.  One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it. In summary 
he said:
While Dura had a duty to pay regards to its customers interests, he didnt see 
evidence from Mr Os application or otherwise that Dura had been notified that Mr O 
needed large print. As such, he didnt find it had failed to adapt its communications 
as it should.
The maturity forms and terms and conditions are both explicit about what options 
were available at maturity and clearly gave three months to decide what to do. The 
default option for plans without an optional preference at maturity was encashment 
and payment to the relevant bank account. In this circumstance, Dura didnt do 
anything wrong or acted unfairly.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators assessment, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Os investment and note that it was a structured product that was designed 
to run for a number of years, but there are Autocall Dates on each anniversary that can be 
enacted to mature the plan early. In Mr Os case, this is what happened with his investment 
in 2022. 
Ive reviewed the terms of the investment  specifically around what happens at maturity as 
a result of an Autocall. The terms explain that you will be contacted on maturity and given 
your options. They go on to say if after three months no instruction is given Dura will return 
the money. There is a warning that if the investment is an ISA, it will lose this status if 
encashed.
Ive reviewed a copy of the maturity letter dated 1 June 2022 that was sent to Mr O. It is 
apparent from Mr Os submissions that he received this letter but filed it until he had found a 
new plan manager. The letter contains information about the maturity options available to 
him. It also contains the following warnings. The first of which is in relation to the 
encashment option:
Important Information: Selecting this option will mean that the ISA status of your 
investment will be lost once your ISA maturity proceeds are transmitted to your bank 
account.
Then later in the letter there was a further warning:
If we do not receive your Instructions within three months of maturity we will 
automatically pay your maturity proceeds to the bank account we hold on file. This 
would mean that the ISA status will be lost once your ISA maturity proceeds are 
transmitted to your bank account.
Both of these statements were highlighted in bold for emphasis.
I find Dura gave Mr O clear information about what happens at maturity - crucially this 
relates to what would happen if no instruction for the maturity proceeds is given within three 
months. This means I dont find that Dura has treated Mr O unfairly. Im satisfied that it has 
provided clear information in a timely manner. Im also satisfied that it has applied the terms 
fairly when it encashed his investment. 
I understand Mr O is unhappy about losing the ISA wrapper for his funds. This isnt 
something he intended to happen. But I havent found this has been caused by an error by 
Dura. So, I dont require it to do anything. 
I acknowledge the points Mr O makes about Duras processes not having regard for client 
needs. He makes reference to problems with his vision making it difficult to fully understand 
all of the information in the maturity letter. He also thinks Dura should have contacted him by 
phone or email to warn him that his ISA funds were being returned. Ive considered the 
points Mr O makes. I havent seen anything to suggest he made Dura aware of him having specific accessibility needs. And while I can understand why it would have been helpful for 
him to receive a call or email, I dont think it was required to do this. It follows, I dont find 
Dura has done anything wrong in this respect.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr O and understand his frustration at 
losing the ISA wrapper for his funds, but I havent found reason to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman