DRN-2203522
The complaint
Mr P says Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat), irresponsibly lent to him.  
Mr P says he has been in severe financial difficulty for a couple of years. 
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Cashfloat provided to Mr P between February 
2017 and September 2019. There are two chains of lending. Mr Ps borrowing history is as 
follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 16/02/2017 19/02/2017 1 £200.00 £250.60
2 21/02/2017 06/03/2017 3 £350.00 £175.20
Break in lending
3 02/07/2019 12/09/2019 2 £200.00 £137.58
4 19/09/2019 Outstanding 3 £400.00 £206.05
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint and thought loan four shouldnt have been 
given as the information that Cashfloat had gathered about Mr Ps financial circumstances 
before it agreed to the loan would suggest Mr P was in financial difficulties. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicator. It said that when Mr P applied for loan four its 
underwriter phoned him to establish whether he was suitable for the borrowing. It also said 
that Mr P had included his partners income of £2,400 per month when he made the 
application. While it didnt include this amount in its affordability calculation it did give the 
underwriter confidence it wouldnt otherwise have had. 
In response to our adjudicators comment about why Mr P would be borrowing more if he 
had access to his partners income, Cashfloat said a consumer might not always have a 
lump sum available for the expense for which they were borrowing.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr P didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr P had with Cashfloat. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Cashfloat has told us of the checks it carried out before agreeing to any of the lending 
including loan four. This included obtaining a credit report and asking Mr P about his income 
and expenditure. Its recorded that for loan four Mr P earned £2,700 (plus £80 other income) 
per month and his expenses were £1,750. Mr Ps partners income of £2,400 is also noted. 
The highest monthly payment for loan four was £206.05 so on a pounds and pence basis it 
would appear affordable.
However, Ive also referred to the credit report Cashfloat has provided which suggests that 
Mr P was struggling financially. The all loan balances figure had increased from loan three 
when it was recorded as being £1,495 and now stood at £4,980. There were 13 active 
accounts rather than eight at loan three,11 new accounts had been opened in the last six 
months which was eight more than recorded for loan three and there were two late payments in the last 12 months. Cashfloat should have identified the other short-term 
lending where it was clear Mr P was borrowing from at least three other short-term lenders. 
Mr P had applied for loan four a week after he had repaid loan three and it was for double 
the amount. So, all of this suggested that Mr P was struggling to manage his finances and I 
think Cashfloat should have reconsidered whether it was right to agree to lend to him. And I 
also think that the fact that Mr P was borrowing more, despite his partners income, 
suggested that this was not income available to Mr P with which to meet his financing needs. 
So, I dont think Cashfloat should have agreed to Mr Ps application for loan four.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan four and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr P at loan four, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If Cashfloat has sold the outstanding debt Cashfloat should buy it back if Cashfloat is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Cashfloat cant buy the debt back, then Cashfloat 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Cashfloat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on this loan. If this results in Mr P having made overpayments 
then Cashfloat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then Cashfloat should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr P. Cashfloat shouldnt pursue any outstanding balance made up of 
principal Cashfloat has already written-off.
C) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation 
to loan four. Cashfloat does not have to remove the outstanding loan from Mr Ps credit file until it has been repaid, but Cashfloat should still remove any adverse information recorded 
about the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ps complaint. Western Circle Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman