DRN-2122565
The complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. In summary, I concluded that the 
new car supplied to Mr S was not of satisfactory quality due to the drive train fault. I found 
that the attempt by the business to repair the fault had been unsuccessful and 
recommended that Mr S should be allowed to reject the car. I said that any deposit Mr S paid 
should be refunded, that his credit file should be amended and that he should receive 
compensation of £150.
BMWFS said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr S disagreed with it and made a number 
of points which Ive summarised as follows:
He just wanted to exchange the car so he agreement would still end in 2 years time 
rather than have to take out a new finance agreement for 4 years now
He had traded in a relatively new car and had paid over £10,000 in monthly 
payments since the inception of finance, which he felt he should receive back.
He had taken advice from a motoring organisation who said the fault shouldnt have 
happened on a new car
The case has now been returned to me to review once more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points made by Mr S. Having done so, and whilst I understand Mr Ss 
reluctance to go back to square one (in his words) and enter into a new finance agreement, 
theres nothing obliging him to enter into another 4 year finance agreement. He could choose 
a shorter term.
In relation to the car that Mr S part exchanged, if the supplying dealer gave Mr S an 
allowance for the part exchange and this was used towards the deposit, then this will be 
refunded by BMWFS as part of the refund of the deposit. 
In relation to Mr Ss monthly payments, Ive explained in my provisional decision that I didnt 
propose to ask BMWFS to refund any payments because Mr S has had use of the car 
throughout, and on the occasions when the car went into the garage for repairs Mr S was 
kept mobile in a courtesy car. My view on this hasnt changed.
Finally, I agree that a new car shouldnt have this type of fault and Ive made this point in my 
provisional decision. I said, I wouldnt expect a brand-new car to require two repairs for the 
same issue within the space of less than 12 months from the point of supply.
Putting things right
To put things right BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund any deposit paid by Mr S (including the value of any part exchange used 
towards the deposit) together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file
My final decision
For the reasons explained in this final decision and my provisional decision, I direct BMWFS 
to take the actions outlined in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman