DRN-2968559
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had had a bank account with RBS since 1994. This was fee free. In December 
1997, this was changed to a Royalties Account which had a £4 monthly fee. Benefits 
included a £100 interest-free overdraft and interest on personal loans reduced by 1%APR.  
In 1997, Mr and Mrs D say they had moved to a different part of the UK and had asked to 
move their account to the branch near their new home. But they say they were told they had 
to open this new account instead.
In September 2000, the account was changed from a Royalties Account to a Royalties Gold 
Account. This cost £9 per month, and benefits included worldwide travel insurance, fee-free 
overdraft up to £250 (if approved), interest on personal loans reduced by up to 1.5% APR 
2% APR reduction on credit card interest. 
Mr and Mrs D say they were told this new account would not cost them anything extra, but 
would give preferential rates on loans. They had gone into the bank to find out about a loan. 
Mr and Mrs D say they hadnt realised until recently they were already paying a fee for the 
Royalties Account that started in 1997. 
In June 2015, RBS changed all Royalties Gold Accounts into Select Platinum Accounts  
this wasnt a new sale, just a change in administrative arrangements affecting all such 
customers. 
When RBS reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, it discovered that Mr and Mrs D hadnt 
benefited from the preferential rates on some loans they had taken, even though the PBA 
entitled them to this. As a result, RBS has refunded the higher amounts that they shouldnt 
have paid. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D feel strongly that they were wrongly told they had to take out a new account 
in 1997, when they moved house; and that bank staff misled them in 2000 by saying the 
new package account wouldnt cost them any money.  
The problem is that this all happened over 20 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember everything that happened so long ago. So it may not be fair for 
me to rely just on what they now remember as happening. And, as I wasnt there, I cant 
know what was said, and whether it was inaccurate or misleading. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint on 
this point. It wouldnt be fair to make RBS prove it didnt act wrongly  instead, fairly, I 
would need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. And I 
cant say that there is that kind of evidence. So I cant say that the PPI was mis-sold in the 
way Mr and Mrs D now believes. 
Ive thought about other ways in which the PBA might have been mis-sold. But, as I 
explain, I dont think it was. 
Mr and Mrs D have said the error RBS made, in not giving them interest reductions on 
their loans, shows the PBA was mis-sold. But I dont agree it means that. It seems agreed 
that RBS did say in 2000 that Mr and Mrs D would be entitled to reduced interest rates on 
loans. And that was accurate  they would be entitled to this. So it would only have been 
a possible mis-sale if that information had been wrong. 
The error, in not applying the lower interest rates, wasnt to do with the sale of the PBA, 
but with an error in administration. And RBS have now put that right by refunding the extra 
interest. 
I dont think RBS recommended the PBA, in the sense of saying it had assessed Mr and 
Mrs Ds personal circumstances and were telling them it was a good fit for their needs. 
Instead it was presenting the PBA as something that they might find useful. 
But, in doing this, RBS did need to give Mr and Mrs D enough information so they could 
make an informed choice. And, as this happened so long ago, I dont know what 
information it did give, and whether this was enough. So Ive thought about how likely it is 
that better information would have made a difference. 
As Ive already said, Im not able to know whether Mr and Mrs Ds recollection  that they 
were told there would be no cost for the PBA in 2000  is right. And it does seem that 
Mr and Mrs D were attracted to the lower interest rates. So I dont see its likely that fuller 
information about the other benefits, or the limitations in the benefits, is likely to have 
made a difference. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman