DRN-2842219
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, couldnt supply her with a 
replacement bank card within a reasonable time frame.
What happened
Miss T tried to order a replacement bank card through her mobile app but was unable to do 
so and received a message asking her to telephone in. Miss T contacted Halifax by 
telephone on 23 November 2020 and a new bank card was order which Miss T was told 
would be with her within five working days. Miss T expressed her dissatisfaction at what had 
happened, and a complaint was raised for her by the advisor who agreed to credit Miss T 
with £26 for the inconvenience and to reimburse the call charges that Miss T had incurred.
Miss T called Halifax again on 27 November 2020 unhappy that the promised card hadnt 
been received. Miss T had to make further calls on 1 December, 7 December, and 16 
December 2020, as she still hadnt received a working bank card by that date. Miss T wasnt 
happy about this, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Halifax had sent the card 
when Miss T requested and that the delay in the card being received was because of delays 
with the postal service. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes recordings of the telephone conversations between Miss T and Halifax on 23 
and 27 November, and 1, 7, and 16 December 2020.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Halifax did issue the replacement bank card when Mis T 
requested it. And while there cards ordered by Miss T were received by her later than 
anticipated by Halifax, given that Im satisfied that Halifax dispatched the cards to Miss Ts 
correct address in a timely manner following her requesting them, I can only conclude that 
the late receipt of the cards was as a result of delays with the postal service which I 
wouldnt consider holding Halifax responsible for.
Unfortunately, Miss Ts late receipt of a working card was also compounded by Miss T 
instructing Halifax to cancel cards that were still in transit and issuing new ones  thus 
cancelling the cards that were already on their way to Miss T before they were received by 
her. 
An example of this was the card that was ordered by Miss T on 23 November 2020 and 
which was dispatched by Halifax the following day on 24 November 2020. Miss T contacted 
Halifax on 27 November to query where the card was and discussed cancelling the card with 
the representative, who advised Miss T against it. Miss T then contacted Halifax again on 1 
December 2020  six working days after she first requested the card and five working days 
after it was dispatched  and instructed Halifax to send a new card to her, despite being 
made aware that this would cancel the card that was already on its way to her. 
The card that Miss T first ordered on 23 November did subsequently arrive but couldnt be 
used by Miss T because it had been cancelled by Halifax on Miss Ts own instruction. 
So, while I can understand Miss Ts frustration that the receipt of her replacement bank card 
took longer than she would have liked, I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably hold Halifax 
responsible for the length of time that it took Miss T to receive a working card. And I say this 
because Halifax dispatched replacement cards to Miss Ts correct address in a timely 
manner, but several of these cards were cancelled on the instruction of Miss T before they 
reached her address - following Miss Ts dissatisfaction with delays attributable to the postal 
service over which Halifax have no control. 
Im aware that Miss T feels that she had no means of accessing her account whilst she was 
without a bank card. But other means of account access do exist, including faster payment, 
telephone banking, and branch visits. And having reviewed Miss Ts bank account 
statements it appears that Miss T did access her account via the faster payment option 
during this time.
Finally, I understand that Miss T is unhappy that Halifax closed the complaint that she raised 
with them as she felt that it hadnt been resolved. I must note that while this service can look 
into the subject matter of a complaint  in this instance, the late receipt of a replacement 
bank card - it isnt within the remit of this service to look into how a business handles the 
complaint that has been raised against them. As this aspect of Miss Ts complaint is about 
how Halifax have handled her complaint, it isnt one that I have the authority to consider. 
Rather, this would be a regulatory matter and would fall under the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss T was wanting here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Halifax to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Miss T can understand, given everything Ive explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman