DRN-3374179
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Pareto Financial Planning Limited (Pareto) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
it has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W approached Pareto in 2015 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was 
looking to review his retirement provision in general. 
Pareto completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that he: 
Was aged 55, married with non-dependent children.
Was self-employed and earning £2,000 per month. His wife was employed and 
earning £4,000 per month. Their expenditure totalled £3,000.
Had a SIPP with Standard Life which he started in 2011. Its current value was 
£52,641.42.
Their property was worth £300,000 and it had an outstanding mortgage of £180,000
They had had joint savings of £37,000.
Pareto also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be six 
out of ten or balanced to adventurous. 
On August 2015, Pareto advised Mr W to transfer his DB pension benefits into his SIPP and 
invest the proceeds in line with his attitude to risk. He had 25 years of service within the DB 
scheme and received a transfer value of approximately £470,000. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were broadly that he wanted;  
the ability to retire early, control and flexibility of his pension which included taking lump 
sums before retirement, better provision for his dependents, increasing his pension cash 
lump sum benefits upon his death at retirement and tax free lump sums at retirement.
It was recorded that he wanted £50,000 per year in retirement and this may not be 
achievable through his existing provision. Pareto thought the transfer was particularly 
suitable for him as he had a higher attitude to investment risk and he was looking for much 
more flexibility than the DB scheme could provide. He wanted to self-invest. 
Mr W complained in 2021 to Pareto about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that 
the growth rate that the transferred out funds needed to achieve was very high at 11.7%. He 
doesnt recall that this, or that any of the other downsides of transferring the pension, were 
fully explained to him.  
Pareto didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that, overall, it thought the recommendation to 
transfer was suitable and appropriate for him at the time, based on the information he 
supplied. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Pareto to pay compensation. She thought that the transfer wasnt financially 
viable and Mr W shouldnt have been advised to make it. The fact that he wanted flexibility 
and different death benefits didnt change this. Mr W shouldnt have been advised to transfer 
his DB scheme benefits. 
Pareto disagreed, they said that: 
The advice to transfer the DB scheme benefits was suitable for Mr W. 
He wanted to access his tax free cash so he could repay some debt and reduce his 
outgoings.
He wasnt under pressure to make the transfer.
Mr W was knowledgeable about financial matters and he had been in touch 
numerous times about the pension transfer. He had already decided to transfer when 
he met them.
So, Pareto thinks he would have made the transfer in any event. 
The DB scheme pension may not have met his needs at age 65. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He didnt think Mr W was 
pressured to transfer his DB scheme benefits. But he also didnt think that Mr W was an 
insistent customer. And even though the DB scheme my not have met his stated aims it 
wasnt suitable to transfer it as it wasnt financially viable. And even though Mr W was an 
experienced investor this doesnt necessarily mean that he wanted to take the risk the 
transfer represented. Overall, the transfer wasnt financially viable and so it wasnt suitable 
for him
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Pareto should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits at age 65 was 11.75% if he took a full 
pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.1% per year for 9 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
balanced to adventurous attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be 
little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical 
yield was 11.7%, I think Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to 
risk. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Pareto 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr W really required flexibility when he made the transfer. This is because, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his TFC 
earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later 
date. 
I do note that Mr Ws personal circumstances had recently changed. I understand that he 
had recently become self-employed and this had led to his income reducing, and perhaps 
becoming less certain. And he did have some credit related outgoings, mainly his mortgage. 
But I havent seen any signs that he was having financial problems. I understand he, and his 
wife, still had enough to meet their day to day needs. He had some cash reserves and he 
was repaying, and or overpaying his debts. So, I dont think he had a pressing need for tax 
free cash. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr W had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed.  
It was recorded that Mr W wanted around £50,000 (in todays money) if he accessed his 
benefits at the scheme retirement age of 65. It was estimated that at 65, he would receive an 
annual pension of £40,763.11 from the DB scheme. This may have been reduced by Mr Ws 
pension sharing arrangement, but he would have also received his state pension in time. 
But this figure seems to be Mr Ws initial thoughts about how much he would like, I havent 
seen a detailed analysis of his expected income and expenditure at retirement. And, as Ive explained above, the DB scheme was likely to provide the highest amount of income 
anyway. 
So, Im satisfied the DB scheme would be best placed to meet his income needs in 
retirement 
Furthermore, Mr W was 55 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he didnt 
have concrete retirement plans. As Mr W had around ten years before full retirement, I think 
it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
Added to this Mr W, and his employer, were also contributing to a SIPP and this would give 
him some flexibility pension benefits going forward as more funds were added to it. 
Overall, I can accept that Mr W was attracted by the idea of flexibility. But Ive not seen a 
genuine need for it. So, any wants he had for flexibility shouldnt have overridden his pension 
requirements. 
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr W to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt really know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr W later 
had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Pareto explored to what extent 
Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Furthermore, if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Pareto 
shouldve instead explored life insurance to a greater degree
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ws desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr W did have 
some investment experience and he may have had an interest in, and the knowledge, to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. 
But, again, I dont think that he had a genuine need to do this. And I dont think that if he fully 
understood that he was likely to receive significantly lower overall pension benefits that he 
would still have proceeded just to meet this aim. And again, he had some control over the 
investments he had in his existing SIPP.  
And the funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position such that Mr W should 
have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. Suitability of investments
Pareto recommended that Mr W invest in a range of funds. And Mr W hasnt complained that 
these funds used were unsuitable as such.  As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds 
that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W, it follows that I dont need to 
consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr W should 
have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in these funds 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Pareto 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr W shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts early, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. Whilst Im sure he found the idea 
of greater flexibility attractive I dont think he needed it at this time of life. 
So, I think Pareto shouldve advised Mr W to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against Pareto's 
advice. Pareto says that this is the case and that Mr W was the driver behind the transfer. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Paretos advice. Ultimately this pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Ws retirement provision. So, if Pareto had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ws want for different death benefits or flexibility were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If 
Pareto had explained that Mr W that risking his guaranteed pension might mean he was 
significantly less likely to meet his retirement objectives, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr W would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
In light of the above, I think Pareto should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that pareto also pay Mr W £350 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr W has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Paretos unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Pareto must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Pareto may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Pareto receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Pareto to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
In addition, £350 should be paid to Mr W to reflect any distress and inconvenience
caused.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pareto to pay Mr W the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pareto to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Pareto to 
pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Pareto pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pareto.
My recommendation would not be binding if he does not accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman