DRN-2339438
The complaint
Mr W complains about the handling of a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy by 
WDP Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr W had mobile phone insurance with WDP which provided damage only cover. He made a 
claim when his mobile phone was damaged. WDP accepted the claim and replaced the 
phone with a refurbished device. 
On receiving the replacement device, Mr W reported to WDP that it was faulty, so he sent it 
back. WDP sent another replacement a day later, but Mr W said that device was also faulty. 
He returned that device on 13 July, and another one on 13 August, with the final 
replacement sent to him on 17 August.
Mr W complained to WDP because he was unhappy it had sent multiple faulty replacements. 
He said was unhappy with the time it had taken to resolve his claim and that he wanted £100 
compensation. WDP accepted that one of the phones had been faulty and offered him £35 
compensation. But Mr W wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator explained the terms and conditions of the policy allowed WDP to settle the 
claim by replacing the original phone with a refurbished phone. He explained WDP had sent 
the outcome of its assessment of each of the replacement devices which showed only one 
had been faulty.
He didnt think WDP had acted unfairly or unreasonably and had adhered to the timescales 
outlined in the policy. He noted WDP aimed to send next day replacements, and where this 
wasnt done, it would pay £15. He accepted that as a result of WDP having sent a faulty 
device, Mr W had been left without a working phone, and had to arrange and wait for a 
replacement. But he thought £35 for the trouble and upset this had caused was fair.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy allows WDP to choose whether to repair or replace the phone with a refurbished 
device, so Im satisfied that in settling the claim by replacing the phone was fair. Im also 
satisfied it had acted promptly when Mr W had reported issues with the devices hed 
received.
Its clear Mr W experienced some issues with the devices he was sent by WDP and this 
would have caused him some unnecessary inconvenience. However, WDP has produced 
evidence which shows that, of the devices he sent back to it, only one of them was actually 
faulty. And in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I accept this was the case.
Mr W has asked for £100 to compensation him for the trouble and upset he experienced as 
a result of WDPs handling of the claim, but Ive considered the impact WDPs failing had 
and Im satisfied its offer of £35 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I dont 
think it needs to do anything else.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman