DRN-3090259
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down a claim for 
storm damage under his home insurance policy.
All references to Fairmead include its appointed agents.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr K noticed a leak in his property. He told his broker and a visit was 
arranged by a home emergency provider (B). B provided a brief report which stated, felt 
needs replacing on roof as it has worn away and is causing a leak.
Mr K spoke to his broker who he says told him to arrange for the repairs to be done. In 
November 2020 the broker told Fairmead of Mr Ks intention to claim the repair costs 
through the policy.
Fairmead reviewed the evidence provided and turned down the claim. It said it hadnt found 
evidence of storm conditions around the time Mr K claimed. And it was unable to validate the 
damage as the repairs had already been completed. Fairmead also referenced Bs report 
which said the roof felt had failed due to wear and tear.
Mr K disagreed and complained. He didnt agree that wear and tear was to blame for the 
roof failing and felt the damage should be covered.
Fairmead provided its final response to Mr K and maintained its position to turn down the 
claim. Mr K then referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They 
accepted there were likely storm conditions around the time Mr K claimed, but they 
concluded Fairmeads position to turn down the claim was reasonable as it hadnt had the 
chance to validate the loss.
Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the roof was in a good 
state of repair. Mr K added that he had tried to notify Fairmead about the claim earlier but 
didnt receive a response, and he was keen to mitigate the damage which is why he got the 
repairs done. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether Fairmead has assessed Mr Ks claim fairly under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. When a policyholder makes a claim, its accepted that it is for them
to show that an insured event has happened. And I would expect the insurer to show it has 
assisted the policyholder by carrying out proportionate investigations to reach a fair outcome 
on the claim.
In order for me to determine if Fairmeads position is fair and reasonable, there are three 
questions I need to consider:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
And in order for the claim to succeed, the answer to all three questions must be yes.
Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
Fairmead says there wasnt any evidence of storm conditions around the time of the claim. 
Mr Ks policy has a specific definition for storm, which states, Wind speeds with gusts of at 
least 47mph/75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm/one inch per hour
Mr K doesnt agree and has provided evidence that two named storms happened near each 
other around a month before he noticed the damage. Given that the damage was an ingress 
of water, which could take some time to manifest and notice, Im satisfied these named 
storms can be considered in the scope of this claim.
Ive checked the weather records for Mr Ks areas on the dates of the named storms. On 25 
August 2020, there was a wind speed of 51mph recorded, followed by significant rainfall on 
27 August 2020. The wind speeds alone are sufficient to meet the policy definition here.
So, based on Mr Ks evidence and the local weather records, Im satisfied there were storm 
conditions around the time of the claim.
Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
Ive considered Mr Ks testimony and the limited information available to me. The items 
quoted in the roofers repair invoice include re-bedding of the ridge tiles, new felt, and new 
wood battens. And Mr K was first alerted to the damage by the roof leaking. So, I am 
satisfied that the damage being claimed for is typical of the damage that would be caused by 
a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I accept Mr Ks point that he says he was told to get the repairs done by his broker. But 
Fairmead as his insurer must be given the opportunity to validate the loss. And Im not 
persuaded that the limited photos and brief report done before the repairs was sufficient for it 
to do this. 
The evidence shows that Fairmead was first made aware of the loss was around two months 
after Mr K first noticed the damage. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr K attempted to get in 
touch sooner than this. And as it was after the repair work was finished, Fairmead was 
unable to undertake any investigations to validate the damage, or cause of damage. I agree 
that this most likely prejudiced its position here.But in any event, Bs report states the felt had failed due to wear and tear, which is excluded 
under Mr Ks policy. I appreciate Mr K disputes this report. But given the limited evidence 
available to me, Ive seen nothing firm to suggest the storm was the predominate and main 
cause of the damage due to a single event. And the roofers notes dont explain how the 
storm caused the damage to Mr Ks roof either.
Therefore, I think its more likely the damage was because of wear and tear over time and 
the storm highlighted it. So, Im satisfied Fairmead have fairly and reasonably turned down 
Mr Ks claim.
Ive considered if any of the damage Mr K is claiming for could be covered under another 
section of his policy  such as accidental damage. But the exclusion for wear and tear is a 
general exclusion that covers this section. And in any event, I cant see how Mr K could now 
show the damage met the accidental damage definition to be accepted by Fairmead. So, I 
dont find any alternative here for this claim to succeed.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman