DRN-3207942
The complaint
Miss G says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to her. She has 
requested that interest and late payment charges she paid on the two accounts from 
February 2017 being a Studio and an Ace account - be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about two shopping accounts that Studio Retail provided to Miss G  an 
Ace account and a Studio Retail account. Both accounts were opened in February 2017 
and each had a starting credit limit of £100. They both also had two credit limit increases, 
in April 2017 and April 2018, reaching a final credit limit of £300. 
Studio Retail said it gave Miss G low credit limits for each account and only increased her 
credit limits when she showed positive payment behaviour in managing her accounts and 
having checked her overall risk score. It also says it wasnt aware of problems with her 
accounts until they fell into arrears in April 2019. The outstanding debt on both accounts 
was eventually sold on to a third party in October 2019. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Gs complaint and thought that Studio Retail ought 
to have realised Miss G wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by 
the time she contacted it in September 2018 to advise that she was experiencing 
difficult personal circumstances. She thought that at that point Studio Retail ought to 
have frozen both accounts. As Studio Retail has disagreed with what they said, the 
complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss G could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into consideration a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
When Studio Retail opened these accounts it says there were no signs of financial difficulties 
based on the checks it carried out. Having reviewed the information thats available, and 
taking into account the low opening credit limit of £100 she was given for each account, I 
dont think theres anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Studio 
Retail to have approved the two accounts. It doesnt look as if Studio Retail asked Miss G 
about her income, although if it had it may have helped it begin to build a picture of Miss Gs 
financial circumstances. 
Our adjudicator explained why she thought Studio Retail had acted fairly in providing all the 
credit limit increases but also why Studio Retail ought to have frozen the accounts avoiding 
further spending  from September 2018. Studio Retail didnt agree with what our adjudicator 
said. It said that when Miss G contacted Studio Retail in September 2018 about her Studio 
account it had flagged her as being a vulnerable consumer. Also, it said Miss G had made 
only two small purchases after that, so it would have been unfair to suspend her accounts, 
given that she was continuing to make her monthly payments towards each account. It also 
says that it gave Miss G a breathing space period to seek help from StepChange after 
shed contacted Studio Retail in May 2019. Finally, Studio Retail also said that in August 
2019 it agreed a payment plan with Miss G, although she never made the first payment. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Miss Gs lending history with Studio Retail, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Studio Retail should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, for Miss G. If so, in 
Miss Gs case, that would mean Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt have 
allowed Miss G to continue spending on her accounts. Having done so, and given the 
particular circumstances of Miss Gs case, I agree with our adjudicator that once it had 
heard from Miss G that her personal circumstances had changed such that she was 
experiencing financial difficulties, it ought to have responded by freezing both of her 
accounts. 
I say this given that Ive seen that Miss G started to regularly miss payments from 
February 2018, continuing into 2019, leading to a steadily increasing level of arrears. As 
a result Miss G began to incur fees on her accounts for non-payment. In particular, I see 
that Miss G had missed two consecutive monthly pavements, for July and August  2018, 
on her Ace account and the August 2018 payment on the Studio account. Ive also seen 
that following each credit limit increase Miss G used nearly all of her available credit 
limit. 
It follows that by September 2018, when Miss G contacted Studio Retail to advise of 
personal issues that could impact on her ability to continuing meeting her monthly 
payments, it ought to have taken proportionate measures to find out more about Miss Gs 
financial circumstances. Had it done so, I think it would likely have seen that that Miss G was struggling to manage the credit she already had and that there was a significant risk 
that any further spending on her account would lead to her indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably. So I think the appropriate next step would have been to put a freeze on 
both accounts. Ive seen that Studio Retail have acknowledged in their investigation that 
offering further support to Miss G might have prevented the debt being sold on. 
It follows that I think that Miss G lost out because Studio Retail continued to allow her to 
spend on her accounts and didnt take appropriate forbearance measures from September 
2018 onwards. In my view, Studio Retails actions unfairly increased and prolonged 
Miss Gs indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended 
period of time and the interest being added got her into further debt. So Studio Retail 
should put things right.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Miss Gs accounts to ensure that from September 2018 onwards all 
interest or charges be removed, including any buy now pay later interest (being the 
credit limit in place before that date), to reflect the fact that access to any remaining 
credit on these accounts shouldnt have been provided. All late payment and over limit 
fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on these accounts once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Miss G to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Miss G has repaid the outstanding balances, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from September 2018 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results is there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss G, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Miss Gs credit file from September 
2018 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Given that it looks like Studio Retail sold the outstanding balances on both accounts to a 
third party in October 2019, it either needs to buy the accounts back from the third party 
and make the necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make the 
necessary adjustments; or pay Miss G an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Gs complaint. Studio Retail & 
Company Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Michael GoldbergOmbudsman