DRN-4444701
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was given advice by Pennymatters Limited to transfer his deferred 
benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension to a personal pension. He says the advice 
was negligent and that he has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr J says he was cold called in 2018 and offered a review of his pension. He says he was 
told a new pension would perform better than his DB scheme.  
IPS Financial Advice Ltd (IPS), a firm regulated in Ireland, was the firm who contacted Mr Js 
DB scheme and requested his benefit details. The intent was to transfer his DB scheme into 
a Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (ROPS) registered in Malta.
IPS then asked Pennymatters to provide a pension transfer analysis report. They provided 
Pennymatters with a background form (on Pennymatters headed paper) which included 
some basic details about Mr J and a risk profile report. IPS also provided Pennymatters with 
details about Mr Js DB scheme benefits.
The documents showed:
Mr J was 49 years old, married and earning £15,400 a year.
He was expecting a state pension of £8,296 per year and a pension from his DB 
scheme at age 62 of £10,495 per year. He also had a personal pension with a value 
of £34,000.
His desired territory for retirement was Malta
He had met with an adviser and had completed paperwork
His attitude to risk was recorded as Growth which was a higher risk classification.
The transfer value from his DB scheme was £174,136
With regards to how Mr J would be invested once transferred IPS said:
Interested in Euro equity, Global Equity and Absolute Return Funds. Looking at funds which 
have seen double digit returns over the past 5 years.
Risks  usual equity risks
Charges  up to 1.7% AMC and 0.5% for trading account
Based on the above, Pennymatters then issued a transfer analysis report (TVAS) and a
report which detailed the Background/Objectives as to establish what factors there are to
consider in the case of a potential final salary transfer to a prospective money purchase
scheme, which could be onshore SIPP or a QROPS.
Pennymatters also issued a transfer advice declaration form on their headed paper which 
said:
To be completed by an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) who is giving pension transfer
advice to a pension scheme member with safeguarded benefits with more than £30,000.
It then showed the IFAs details as an adviser from Pennymatters and their FCA
authorisation number and signature.
The form went on to say:
In relation to the potential transfer of the plan holder's safeguarded benefits, I hereby
declare that:
In my view appropriate independent advice has been given to the plan holder [Mr J] to
quantify the issues surrounding a potential transfer of benefits out of the British Steel
Pension Scheme.
I, as an IFA, have permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
or resulting from any other provision of that Act, to carry on the regulated activity in Article
53E of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the
Order) (pension transfer advice).
The TVAS, report and transfer declaration were returned to IPS with an invoice to Mr J of
£660 plus VAT for the documentation they issued.
Ive also seen a separate adviser statement form which was provided by the DB scheme and 
which again showed Pennymatters advisers name, FCA authorisation number and a firm 
stamp including their address and contact details. It was signed the same day as all the 
other paperwork Pennymatters provided and said:
I, the adviser named above, confirm:
that the advice that I have provided is specific to the type of transaction proposed by
the member;
that I have permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000, or resulting from any other provisions of that Act, to carry on the regulated
activity in article 53E of the Regulated Activities Order;
That the firm reference number of the company or business for which I work is
authorised by the FCA to carry on the regulated activity in article 53E of the
Regulated Activities Order; and
That the advice I have given is in relation to the member of Scheme named on this
Statement and relates to their existing rights of safeguarded benefits.
Pennymatters adviser says he has no recollection completing this particular declaration. He 
says it isnt completed in his handwriting but the signature looks similar to his.
Mr J subsequently transferred his DB scheme benefits to a ROPS registered in Malta.
In 2023, Mr J complained about the advice he received and that he suffered financial loss
by giving up his DB benefits. Pennymatters say they didnt advise Mr J to transfer out of the
DB scheme nor did they facilitate the transfer. They had no involvement with Mr Js 
investments and they were only tasked to evaluate and quantify a potential transfer of 
benefits from the DB Scheme.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Pennymatters disagreed and so the complaint was
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is,
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and
the wider surrounding circumstances.
I agree with Pennymatters that based on the information available they didnt provide Mr J
with a personal recommendation to transfer his DB scheme benefits or how to invest once 
the monies were transferred. Given that the paperwork indicates it was IPS who initiated the 
transfer process and arranged it, I think its more likely than not it was IPS or an unregulated 
investment firm who told Mr J he would be better off outside the DB scheme.
However, whilst Mr Js complaint is that Pennymatters gave him negligent advice, as a 
service we have an inquisitorial remit which allows me to consider what lies at the heart of 
his complaint. And its clear to me that the complaint ultimately relates to Pennymatters 
involvement in Mr Js pension transfer advice process which is what Ive considered here.
Pennymatters was a FCA regulated financial advisory firm who were providing a service to
Mr J in relation to a possible pension transfer and investment in a ROPS. They were
making arrangements with a view of him transferring his pension into a ROPS and investing
it mainly in equity funds. And they were charging a fee for this. In accordance with the FCAs
Principles for Businesses they had to:
conduct their business with integrity (PRIN1)
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (PRIN2)
pay due regard to the interest of their customers and treat them fairly (PRIN 6)
The Pension Schemes Act 2015 introduced the obligation for pension trustees to check that
consumers had taken advice from an authorised independent adviser before giving up
safeguarded benefits over £30,000. This is set out in Section 48 of the Act. An authorised
independent adviser is a person who has permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services
Act 2000.
This requirement for advice was brought in to protect consumers and making sure they
receive appropriate advice before giving up valuable benefits. Financial advisers generally
tend to complete a transfer advice declaration, like Pennymatters did, which can be shown to
trustees and enable them to release safeguarded funds.
IPS wasnt an authorised independent adviser for the purposes of Section 48, so they
couldnt issue a transfer advice declaration which would be needed to complete a DB 
transfer. And this is where Pennymatters involvement becomes crucial. Both IPS and 
Pennymatters would have known that a transfer couldnt happen without confirmation that Mr 
J received UK regulated advice.
In my view the transfer advice declaration gave the reasonable impression Pennymatters
had given pension transfer advice. The form states at the beginning that it should be
completed by the IFA who gave the advice and it includes Pennymatters relevant
permissions and authorisations. Also there was no apparent other reason why this form
needed to be completed other than to provide it to the DB trustees. So I think Pennymatters
ought to have reasonably known that this is how such a declaration would be used and
interpreted.
I acknowledge that Pennymatters say they dont recall completing the second adviser 
declaration on the DB scheme form. However, on balance I think its more likely than not 
they did sign this too. It was signed on the same day as all other paperwork they completed and it includes their firm stamp and signature. In any event, I think the declaration they did 
complete on its own would have been sufficient to give the misleading impression they gave 
advice.  
In my view Pennymatters knowingly helped IPS to circumvent UK legislation. They knew the
law required Mr J to receive advice from an adviser with specific UK pension transfer advice
permissions and they produced paperwork which gave the impression he had received this,
even though they say they didnt advise him.
I cant even see that Pennymatters had any real insight to what IPSs advice process looked
like. With regards to their processes they told us previously: We had no detailed knowledge 
or visibility of the products being used.The only information that we had was that given by 
[IPS], and we wrote the reports based upon their information. We were paid a fixed fee in 
this regard and did this, we believe, in line with what we were meant to do at the time.
The starting assumption for a DB transfer is that it is unsuitable for most people and it needs
to be demonstrated that it is in a consumers best interest. (COBS 19.1.6 G)
Mr J was a manual worker on a relatively low income and was planning to transfer his main 
pension provisions into an overseas pension with significant charges. 
Based on the limited information I have seen I cant see that it was in Mr Js best interest to
transfer his DB pension. He had no recorded investment experience or knowledge and even 
Pennymatters themselves have said if they had advised him they would have advised 
against a transfer.
The background form showed Mr J wanted to retire in Malta and the Pennymatters report 
mentions possible advantages of the investment being converted from Sterling to Euro which 
could negate adverse movements in Sterling after Brexit.
Mr J says a move abroad in retirement was never intended. He simply signed forms that had 
been completed for him. However, even if that had been the case the fact alone that 
someone might move abroad in the future does not automatically make a transfer out of a 
DB scheme and/or a transfer to a ROPS suitable.
As I said initially, Pennymatters didnt recommend a transfer to Mr J. However, where 
Pennymatters have acted not in Mr Js best interest is when they completed at least one  
transfer advice declaration that gave the impression they had given advice. They were 
aware that Mr J was looking to transfer his DB pension to a ROPS and that he was being
advised by a firm outside the UK who didnt have the necessary authorisation and
permissions. They had no insight what Mr J was being told by IPS and they knew Mr J was
planning to invest in an overseas pension with fairly high costs.
Without the declaration completed by a UK regulated adviser with the relevant permissions,
the transfer could not have proceeded. And Pennymatters would have known this. So my
view remains that they should only have completed the declaration if they had actually given
advice. Without their involvement, Mr J wouldnt have been able to transfer out of his DB
scheme.
Pennymatters helped IPS to circumvent UK legislation which was designed to protect Mr J.
IPS needed Pennymatters transfer declaration in order to transfer Mr Js benefits from a
DB scheme. And I think Pennymatters ought to have known that their declaration would be
used in this way. There was no other reason why such a declaration needed to be issued. If
Pennymatters had just wanted to confirm they had carried out a transfer analysis, they could
have done this in a separate confirmation which in no way resembled a transfer advicedeclaration needed for the purposes of Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015.
In my view Pennymatters should not have issued a transfer advice declaration without giving
advice to Mr J. They carried out business in a way that wasnt in the best interest of Mr J and 
not in line with PRIN.
In my view they ought to have either refused to issue the transfer advice declaration or
offered to provide advice to Mr J. If they had refused to provide the declaration, IPS might 
have approached another business for their assistance. However, on balance I think any 
reasonable adviser would have rejected this proposal.
And if Pennymatters had provided advice to Mr J, they would have had to properly consider
the receiving scheme and intended investments. And I think they ought to have
recommended against a transfer. I cant see any persuasive reason why it was in Mr Js
best interest to give up guaranteed benefits.
Overall, I think if Pennymatters didnt act in Mr Js best interest and didnt treat him fairly. If
they had acted differently, Mr J likely would not have transferred his DB pension.
I appreciate Pennymatters say they were only paid a fixed fee for the report and I 
acknowledge that several other parties were involved in Mr Js transfer and they might
also have contributed or caused the same losses. However, Im considering Pennymatters
involvement here and their actions. I appreciate they seem to think they only played a
negligible role in Mr Js pension transfer. However, I disagree. They could have prevented 
Mr J transferring his DB pension and in my view they played a significant role in enabling
this unsuitable transfer.
Im satisfied that their actions were material to Mr J transferring his DB pension and investing 
into a ROPS. If they had not issued the declaration they would have more likely than not 
prevented the transfer. Mr J wouldnt have been exposed to any investment risk and 
unsuitable investments and wouldnt have suffered any losses. So whilst I recognise 
Pennymatters doesnt seem to have been involved in Mr Js investment strategy, their 
actions left Mr J exposed to risks he shouldnt have been exposed to in the first place. 
So in the circumstances I think its fair and reasonable that they compensate Mr J for all of
his losses he suffered by transferring out of the DB scheme. If they feel other parties are 
also responsible, they are free to pursue them if they wish once they paid Mr J in full.Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr J as much as possible back into the position he would have been in if it
wasnt for Pennymatters inappropriate actions. As said above I think he likely would not have
transferred out of the DB scheme. 
Pennymatters must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
I understand some of Mr Js investments are in loan notes (bought immediately after the 
transfer in September 2018) which are now illiquid and he cannot access his pension which 
has wanted to do since he turned 55 this year. Given that Mr J would have accessed his 
pension by now if he could, I think its reasonable to assume he would have accessed his 
DB benefits early too. I say this because his representatives have told us he currently isnt 
working due to ill health, he is desperate to access his tax-free cash and is vulnerable due to 
the lack of funds. 
His representatives say early retirement from the DB scheme would have likely only been 
possible with significant exit penalty charges. They also say that if Mr J was considering 
taking DB benefits now he would be receiving financial advice and alternatives to accessing 
his pension would be explored like loans, borrowing from friends and family or seeing 
whether benefits would be available to him. Mr J has told them he is only looking for funds 
short-term so an adviser would have taken this into account. Mr Js representatives think Mr 
J unlikely would have opted for early retirement from the DB scheme due to the penalties 
and believe an assumed retirement age of 62 should be used (the normal retirement age in 
Mr Js previous DB scheme).
I carefully considered these arguments, but still believe on the balance of probabilities Mr J 
would have accessed his DB benefits at 55 if he had remained in the scheme. Early 
retirement isnt subject to penalties but benefits are reduced to recognise that they are being 
paid for longer. And this isnt much different to taking lump sums from a drawdown 
arrangement early which will also reduce benefits later on in retirement. 
I also note that in order to take benefits from his DB pension Mr J wouldnt have needed 
financial advice, so I dont think it can be assumed he likely would have sought this. His 
representatives have said he was looking to access his pension as a last resort, so it doesnt 
sound like he has alternative options to raise funds in any event or if he had whether he 
would have wanted to use these. 
Overall, I think its reasonable to assume Mr J would have accessed his DB benefits at 55 
when he needed funds desperately and so this is the age which should be assumed for 
calculations.
The redress calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in 
line with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Js acceptance of my final decision.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, Pennymatters may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would
have been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Not being able to access his pension over the past few months due to illiquid investments 
and realising what benefits he has lost in his DB scheme have caused Mr J considerable 
worry and distress. I think paying him £500 for this is reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000 plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000 I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I uphold the complaint and require Pennymatters Limited
to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000 I also recommend that
Pennymatters Limited pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this final decision, the money award is binding on Pennymatters Limited. My
recommendation is not binding on them. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept a final
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. He may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman