DRN-3759322
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
declined their claim under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim to RSA when they noticed a problem running their bath. RSA 
appointed an engineer who visited Mr and Mrs Rs home to review the problem. It was 
identified the mixer unit had failed and it was determined it needed to be replaced.
As Mr and Mrs R still had access to hot and cold water in their home, RSA said the fault 
wasnt considered an emergency and therefore, wasnt covered by the policy. RSA did offer 
to complete the repair at a cost of £267.61, but Mr and Mrs R declined this.
Mr and Mrs R think RSA should complete the repairs under the policy, which they said 
covers the cost of plumbing, parts and labour.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought RSA had fairly assessed 
the claim and thought its decision to decline the claim was reasonable as it was consistent 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr and Mrs R disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The engineer identified the mixer tap was faulty and needed replacing  but RSA said this 
wasnt covered by the policy. So, Ive reviewed why RSA declined the claim to determine 
whether they did this fairly.
RSA highlighted page 41 of the policy which states What we cover - Heating system. Loss 
of heating or hot water as a result of the complete failure or breakdown of your homes 
primary heating system. RSA explained [the engineer] has correctly turned down the cost 
of replacing the mixer unit as you still have access to hot water and youve not suffered a 
complete failure of the system.
I have checked the terms and conditions of the policy and these are as stated by RSA. An 
insurance policy doesnt cover every eventuality  an insurer will provide cover for certain 
risks / scenarios and these are set out as insured perils in the policy. An insurers liability is 
normally limited using policy limits and exclusions. An insurer will then charge the insured a 
premium based upon the level of risk it has taken. Consumers can shop around choose what 
cover they want to purchase and at what price.
I think RSA has been reasonable in declining the claim. It has explained why the policy 
doesnt cover Mr and Mrs R in these circumstances. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R said they 
needed to use a bucket to carry water from the kitchen to the bath upstairs. However, as Mr 
and Mrs R hadnt suffered a complete failure of the system, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask RSA to cover the claim. The policy doesnt cover this.
I cant see any other part of the policy where Mr and Mrs R could successfully claim for this 
repair. So, I think RSA has been fair in declining this claim as it has acted in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, so I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate the circumstances wouldve inconvenienced Mr and Mrs R. However, I can see 
RSAs engineer did ask if Mr and Mrs R still wanted the repair done and quoted for this work, 
albeit not under the policy. So, whilst the policy didnt cover the repair, I think RSA has 
reasonably tried to help Mr and Mrs R by offering them another solution. I think it was 
reasonable to do this  to try and reduce the inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs R declined 
this, which is of course their right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman