DRN-3363079
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs C have said that the level of service they received from The Mortgage Works 
(UK) Plc (TMW) when they were remortgaging was poor and contradictory. Theyre also 
unhappy about the amount of hard credit searches that were recorded on their credit files.
What happened
On 15 March 2020 Mr H and Mrs C applied for two mortgages with TMW through a 
mortgage broker. They were to remortgage two buy-to-let properties that they owned which 
were on the 1st and 2nd floors of the same building.
Due to the pandemic, and the country going into lockdown, the valuations were cancelled 
and things had to be held until matters could proceed.
Some new regulations came into effect on 1 April 2020 which meant all rental properties 
needed an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) to ensure they met the relevant 
standards. 
Mr H and Mrs C say that TMW didnt tell them about that until 6 May, at which time they 
were being told theyd only need a desktop valuation for both properties.
A desktop valuation was undertaken for the 2nd floor flat, but TMW said the 1st floor flat 
needed a physical valuation to be carried out due to there being a flood risk.
Once the valuation report was received the mortgage offer for the 1st floor flat was approved 
on 29 May (I understand the mortgage offer had been approved for the 2nd floor flat on 
19 May).
After some issues with the certificate of title, a request was received by TMW asking that the 
funds be released on 30 June.
Unhappy about what had happened Mr H and Mrs C complained to TMW. TMW didnt 
uphold the complaint and so Mr H and Mrs C referred it to our service.
One of our investigators looked at things. He said whilst it was unfortunate the application 
had been affected by the exceptional circumstances of a global pandemic and a change in 
regulations, he didnt think TMW had acted unreasonably and so he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr H and Mrs C didnt agree and so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust the parties wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a point it isnt that I 
havent considered it, it is that I dont think I need to comment on it to reach the right 
outcome.
Mr H and Mrs C have commented on the number of hard searches that are showing on their 
credit files. Whilst I can see why they feel it is excessive TMW didnt do anything wrong here. 
There are two hard credit searches (each) on 14 March as Mr H and Mrs C applied for two 
separate mortgages (one for each property). Each mortgage application will generate its own 
search  thats entirely normal and as I would expect  and so Mr H and Mrs C would always 
have had two searches each in March 2020 when they applied. 
There are then further searches in May 2020  the first on 18 May and the second on 
29 May (again one for each mortgage application). Those searches were correctly logged as 
TMW undertakes a further search when it is ready to generate the mortgage offer if it has 
been more than 60 days since the original credit search. So Mr H and Mrs C correctly each 
had two further credit searches on their credit files  one on 18 May and the other on 
29 May.
The only error I can see is that Mrs C had three credit searches on 14 March rather than 
two. It isnt clear if that was an error by their broker or by TMW. It was more likely due to 
something that the broker did as at that time only a decision in principle had been keyed, so 
TMW would just search based on what was submitted by the broker at that time. 
In any event one extra hard credit search on Mrs Cs credit file (when there were already 
four others) wouldnt have had such a detrimental impact that compensation is due, which is 
why Ive not looked into which party made the mistake as it wouldnt make a difference to my 
overall outcome. Mr H told our investigator that they didnt try to apply for finance because of 
the hard searches so we cant say either way whether or not the one extra search on 
Mrs Cs caused any detriment, but it seems unlikely especially as Mr H was talking about a 
personal loan, so he could have applied in his sole name.
Mr H and Mrs C say they werent told the original valuation had been cancelled, but the 
entire country had just gone into an unprecedented lockdown. TMW has said the staff 
werent working, so there was simply no way they could be notified. 
I understand Mr H and Mrs C feel TMW should have told them sooner that they would need 
EPCs, but TMW shouldnt have had to. This wasnt a TMW requirement  this was a legal 
requirement from 1 April 2020 for all properties that were rented out, whether mortgaged or 
not.
I can understand Mr H and Mrs Cs confusion that one property could have a desktop 
valuation whereas the other needed a physical valuation, especially where it was said it was 
because of a risk of flooding. But TMW is entitled to have its criteria for valuations, and it 
would be more usual for all properties to need a physical valuation, so the fact only one did 
was a positive rather than seeing it as a negative. TMW was being asked to lend money to 
Mr H and Mrs C secured against the properties, and so if it wanted a physical valuation done 
then that isnt something I would say was an inappropriate request. 
Mr H and Mrs C have said it is the changes that were the problem, initially being told one 
thing and then another. Theyre also unhappy that the valuer didnt make contact to book the 
valuation until 20 May when TMW started valuations again on 15 May, saying there was no 
urgency to help them and they would have thought theyd be sooner than then as their initial 
valuation had been cancelled back in March.This was an unprecedented time for lenders and valuers. Whilst I acknowledge how 
frustrating it was for Mr H and Mrs C to think they could just have a desktop valuation, the 
property always needed a physical valuation and that was carried out as soon as it could be 
 so their application wasnt delayed due to the confusion. Mr H and Mrs C werent TMWs 
only customers at this time, and surveyors werent just dealing with TMW they were also 
dealing with the customers of multiple other lenders. So when things came off hold and 
valuation appointments could be booked again there was always going to be some delays in 
getting everyone booked in. I dont think the timeframes here were at all unreasonable 
bearing all that in mind.
I understand there was an issue with the property address on the certificate of title, but that 
was resolved quickly so didnt cause any notable delays such that compensation would be 
due. These things arent instant - there are service standards that lenders and solicitors work 
towards  and here things were resolved within the service standard Id expect to see and so 
I cant award any compensation.
It is unfortunate Mr H and Mrs C didnt apply for their remortgages until 15 March 2020 when 
their preferential interest rates were coming to an end on 30 April 2020  that timescale 
would have been tight even outside of there being a pandemic. Bearing in mind the 
pandemic and the entire country going into lockdown, I dont consider the timescales these 
remortgages took to complete to be at all unreasonable such that compensation would be 
due.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman