DRN-3021342
The complaint
Mr B complains about the handling of a transfer request made by Walker Crips Investment 
Management Limited for his Individual Savings Account (ISA) held with another provider.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr B opened an ISA with Walker Crips and requested that a transfer be 
made to that account from his current provider.
Due to an administration error Walker Crips requested a full balance transfer from Mr Bs 
current provider rather than just the £40,000 he wanted transferred. This meant that the 
investments in Mr Bs account were sold when they shouldnt have been. Mr B realised an 
error had been made and Walker Crips liaised with his current ISA provider for his account 
there to be restored. 
Mr Bs current ISA provider reversed the sale of the shares so his account was put back in 
the same position, with the same number of shares as it had prior to the sale taking place. 
When repurchasing the shares the cost was around £4,000 less than when the shares were 
sold as they had fallen in value. Mr B complained to Walker Crips (as well as to his current 
provider) saying he was entitled to this surplus amount of money. Walker Crips said this 
wasnt the case and that they hadnt made any profit or loss as a result of the correcting 
trades on his account. Walker Crips acknowledged there had been a mistake and offered 
£250 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought the £250 fairly accounted for the 
trouble and upset caused by the mistake. They explained that Walker Crips hadnt made any 
profit from what happened as they werent the business who completed the buying and 
selling of the shares. Mr B disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided a lot of information about his complaint and reasons why he thinks he is 
entitled to the surplus money. I want to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered everything 
he has submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what happened which 
reflects the informal nature of our service. 
All parties agree that a mistake was made and that Walker Crips requested a full transfer of 
Mr Bs account rather than the £40,000 he actually wanted to transfer. The matter for me to 
decide is whether the offer made by Walker Crips is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the mistake. And after considering everything that happened, Im satisfied that it is.
Walker Crips admit a mistake was made and this happened because Mr Bs cover letter 
became accidentally removed from the transfer authority form. This means they requested a 
full ISA transfer rather than just the £40,000 Mr B wanted to transfer. 
Once Mr B made Walker Crips aware of the problem they liaised with the current ISA 
provider and the problem was fixed within a few days. Looking at the timeline of events Im 
satisfied that Walker Crips acted quickly to put things right and the problem was resolved in 
a timely manner. 
To apologise for the mistake Walker Crips have offered £250 which I think fairly 
compensates Mr B for the time spent sorting things out as well as the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Walker Crips have explained they didnt profit from what happened when restoring Mr Bs 
account with his current provider. And looking at what happened I agree thats the case. 
Walker Crips didnt have any involvement in the buying or selling shares held by Mr B in his 
account with his current provider. They also had no involvement with the surplus money 
those transactions created. 
For the sake of clarity I think its important to say that even if Walker Crips were involved in 
restoring Mr Bs account (which they werent) that still wouldnt mean that he is entitled to 
any surplus money. Id expect Mr B to be put back in the position he would be in had the 
mistake not happened. This means he should have the same number of shares, and this is 
what he has. Its the number of shares which is important here and not the cash value of 
those shares.
I understand from Mr B that there was a further problem in June 2020 with another transfer 
request from Walker Crips. It seems that problem was dealt with quickly, but as it didnt form 
part of Mr Bs original complaint to Walker Crips, and they havent been given time to 
investigate what happened on that occasion, this isnt something I can comment on.
Putting things right
Walker Crips Investment Management Limited should pay Mr B £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused by the mistake. 
My final decision
Walker Crips Investment Management Limited has already made an offer of £250 to settle 
this complaint which I think is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Walker Crips Investment Management Limited should pay Mr B £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman