DRN-3086096
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank Plc wont refund the money that he says wasnt dispensed 
from a cash machine (ATM).  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief overview here. In July 2019, Mr W complained about an ATM withdrawal of £100 that 
he hadnt received but had debited his account. TSB concluded that there was no error with 
the ATM and the cash had successfully been dispensed. Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr 
W referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that TSB 
hadnt provided enough technical evidence to support its position. He also noted a 
discrepancy in the balance sheet provided by TSB. He felt Mr W had gone to great lengths 
to prove his version of events, including asking TSB to review CCTV evidence and 
suggested that TSB return the disputed amount with interest. TSB didnt agree and asked for 
an ombudsman to review the case. The case was passed to me to decide.  
I wrote to TSB prior to issuing this decision to explain that the lack of evidence didnt support 
its case. I explained that I found Mr Ws testimony following the ATM withdrawal attempt to 
be persuasive. TSB didnt agree it needed to provide some of the technical evidence 
(including the purge box data) requested. It stated the ATM would recognise when cash 
hadnt been dispensed and automatically recredit a customers account in this event.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with what our investigator has said for much the same reasons.  
Mr Ws TSB account doesnt appear to be his main bank account, but he does have a 
pattern as to how he uses it. Mr W usually transfers money from another account to his TSB 
account just before withdrawing it as cash for his household shopping. This was evidenced 
by the bank statements provided by TSB. 
On the day of the disputed ATM withdrawal, Mr W transferred £100 to his TSB account and 
shortly after the disputed ATM withdrawal, transferred a further £100 into this account. Mr W 
says he made the second transfer because the cash hadnt been dispensed from the ATM 
and he thought hed made a mistake with his earlier transfer. I find this to be plausible as 
theres usually a gap of several days before Mr W makes a further transfer into his TSB 
account. 
The day after the disputed ATM withdrawal, Mr W withdrew cash from a different ATM. From 
what Ive seen, its unusual for Mr W to make more than one ATM withdrawal on consecutive 
days as theres usually a gap of several days before his usual pattern repeats. Mr W says he 
did this because cash wasnt dispensed the first time and he had to complete his household 
shopping. Ive noted the ATM used was outside a supermarket. 
Following TSBs response to his complaint, Mr W asked his local TSB branch to review 
CCTV evidence. It told him that it couldnt confirm that cash had been dispensed or removed 
from the ATM. 
Ive considered the steps Mr W took to prove his case. It would be particularly risky for Mr W 
to ask for CCTV evidence if he wasnt being truthful. I do find Mr Ws testimony and conduct 
to be persuasive and supported by the evidence of his account activity.  
Overall, I find Mr Ws testimony to be more persuasive than the evidence provided by TSB. 
This is because:
TSB couldnt provide the technical evidence to confirm the cash had been 
successfully dispensed and relied on a note recorded at the time. I see no reason as 
to why TSB couldnt have retained this evidence considering Mr Ws complaint.
 
The balance sheet provided by TSB showed a minor discrepancy of £20 in the 
overall balance, which isnt particularly alarming, but it did show a total of £2,420 in 
the reject bin. TSBs response to this was that the ATM will know when cash hasnt 
been dispensed and will automatically recredit a customers account when this 
happens. This may well be true but the discrepancy with the balance, as well as the 
number of notes in the reject bin, does show the ATM hadnt successfully dispensed 
cash every time. And in the absence of TSB retaining the technical evidence at the 
first bullet, I cant conclude that Mr Ws cash withdrawal was successful. 
TSB was unable to provide the purge box data. Whilst TSB doesnt think this 
information should be required by this service, its helpful to see, particularly when 
the consumers account of events is persuasive. 
TSB didnt retain the CCTV evidence of the disputed ATM withdrawal. So, Im unable 
to review this evidence that was available to it. We wouldnt normally expect this 
evidence to be kept indefinitely, but when it is the subject matter of an active 
complaint, it wouldve been helpful if it had been retained. 
I appreciate there are two competing versions of events presented by each party here. But 
on balance I think Mr Ws account is more credible for the reasons discussed above and I 
think its more likely than not that cash wasnt correctly dispensed. It follows that TSB should 
return this amount along with 8% interest as Mr W has been deprived of this money.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint against TSB Bank Plc and it should:
Refund the disputed ATM withdrawal of £100; 
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from his account until 
the date of settlement;
If TSB Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr W with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman