DRN-4147035
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Pension Works Limited (PWL) unreasonably delayed giving him 
advice about whether to transfer the benefits from his former employers occupational 
pension defined benefit (DB) scheme to an alternative pension arrangement. Mr A believes 
he has lost out as a result.
In bringing this complaint Mr As been supported by his wife, Mrs A. But for ease of reading, I 
will refer to her comments as being Mr As.
What happened
In 2022 Mr A was considering early retirement. He was a deferred member of his former 
employers DB scheme. On 28 March 2022 the administrators of the scheme had offered a 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £180,300 if Mr A chose to transfer his 
funds from the scheme to an alternative arrangement. The CETV was guaranteed for three 
months until 28 June 2022. Mr As financial adviser referred him to PWL for advice about 
transferring. 
Mr A completed letters of authority to allow PWL to gather information about his DB scheme 
and also from three other companies he held defined contribution (DC) pensions with. On 
21 April 2022 he completed a fact-find and DB transfer questionnaires. The next day PWL 
spoke with Mr A. It also requested information about his pension entitlements from all four 
pension providers. Over the ensuing weeks PWL received some limited information from the 
three DC pension providers. But it didnt receive everything it needed and it chased the 
relevant providers for the outstanding information on 9 May, 18 May, 24 May, 28 May, and 
13 June. By 14 June it still had one enquiry outstanding with a DC pension provider.
PWL called Mr A on 23 June 2022 to discuss his circumstances and objectives. Five days 
later, on 28 June 2022, Mr As guaranteed CETV expired. PWL received the last piece of 
information it needed concerning Mr As DC pensions on 4 July. On the same day it sent 
Mr A a health questionnaire.
On 19 July 2022 PWL sent Mr A the result of the first stage of its advice process, known as 
abridged advice. It said it had insufficient information to make a recommendation at that 
stage and suggested Mr A take full advice. It rang Mr A to discuss the finding of its abridged 
advice. Having done so it asked him to sign both a declaration that hed understood the 
advice and also the fee agreement agreeing to pay PWLs fee for full advice.
On 15 August 2022 PWL chased Mr A for the declaration that hed read and understood the 
advice. He returned it the next day. 
In September 2022 PWL gathered some more information from Mr A. A couple of weeks 
later it rang Mr A. It said that owing to the economic conditions  interest rates and inflation 
had increased significantly  it said it was likely Mr As CETV had fallen. It estimated that 
would be by around 22%. It offered Mr A the option of carrying on, or halting the process at 
that point without any charge. Mr A opted to withdraw from the process.
Mr A wasnt happy with the manner in which PWL had handled the advice request. In 
particular he thought it had taken too long and his CETV had reduced as a result. He spoke 
with PWL in October 2022 and later sent a complaint by email. 
PWL replied in December 2022. In brief it said it couldnt complete the first part of its advice 
process until it had received all the information it needed from Mr As pension providers. And 
by the time it received that information it had no real prospect of completing the advice 
process before the CETV guarantee expiry date. It didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. She didnt think 
PWL needed to take any further action. Mr A didnt agree so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
And, while I've considered everything on file, I dont intend to address each and every point 
or issue raised. Instead I will focus my decision on what I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of Mr As complaint and the reasons for my decision.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What Ive set out below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied 
at the time of the advice, but it provides useful context for my assessment of PWL's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that, when 
considering a transfer from a DB scheme:
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A 
firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
client's best interests.So, the starting assumption is that a DB transfer is unsuitable. This is known as the 
presumption of unsuitability. It follows that PWL should only have considered 
recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate on the evidence available at the time 
that it was in Mr As best interests.
Should PWL have completed the advice process within the CETV guarantee date?
I have to determine whether PWL could have completed the advice process before the 
CETV guarantee date had passed. And, if there were delays, whether they were a result of 
any error or omission on the part of PWL.
I can understand that, perhaps, from Mr As perspective, the transfer of his DB scheme 
funds made sense. He wasnt in the best of health, he was looking to retire early and was 
concerned that his life might not be a long one. And, apart from giving him access to a fairly 
large sum immediately which he could reinvest, transferring would also likely leave a lump 
sum for his wife on his death, if he were to die before her. 
So, Mr A may have believed that the matter of whether or not to transfer out of his DB 
scheme was an easy one which didnt need any in-depth analysis. It only needed a suitably 
qualified adviser to confirm they had provided regulated advice and from there the scheme 
administrators could have transferred the CETV into an alternative arrangement.
In contrast, PWL is aware the area of DB pension transfers is heavily regulated. And the 
regulator says advising firms like PWL should start by presuming a transfer won't be 
suitable.
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are often considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) compared with other pension products available on the open 
market. And transferring from a DB scheme is a one-off event; once transferred theres no 
going back  the benefits are lost forever. So, when giving DB pension transfer advice 
PWLs role wasnt to simply do what Mr A wanted it to do, no matter how convinced he was 
that a transfer was suitable for him. Instead PWL was required to understand his wants and 
needs, not just his wishes and desires. And only once it was convinced, on contemporary 
evidence, that a transfer was in his best interests could it fairly make a positive 
recommendation to transfer.
Further, there are typically a number of stages involved in the DB transfer process. PWL 
effectively offers a two stage process. The first is known as abridged advice. This is a 
shorter form of advice requiring fewer pieces of evidence to complete and is less complex. It 
only has two possible outcomes:
A recommendation not to transfer.
A conclusion that the short form of advice is inconclusive about whether a transfer is 
suitable.
And, generally, a client would only move on to the second stage  full advice  if PWL has 
identified that the abridged advice was inconclusive. 
The abridged advice process requires less information than full advice. But at the abridged 
advice stage the regulator still requires PWL to gather what it calls essential facts about 
Mr As knowledge, objectives and circumstances. And that includes detailed information 
about his regular income and assets both currently and into retirement. 
So, before PWL could complete the abridged advice stage it needed to know what Mr As 
pension entitlements were from all of his pensions. That's the case even though Mr A wasnt asking PWL to comment on his DC pensions. However, PWL needed to gather that 
information in order to be able to fairly advise him. And that meant it needed more 
information than just how much the pension pots were worth. It also needed to know things 
like the pension entitlement his pension pots would give to him and how he could access 
them. 
I understand that since approaching PWL Mr As now consolidated his DC pensions into one 
single fund. But that wasnt the case at that time so PWL was required to make enquiries of 
the three pension providers individually. It also made enquiries of his DB scheme 
administrators, but those didnt hold up the process significantly.
As I've indicated above, PWL made a number of enquiries to the DC pension providers. And 
while they did give some information promptly, other pieces of information remained 
outstanding. For example one of the pension providers answered a number of PWLs 
questions on 18 May 2022. But concerning what Mr As pension entitlement from that fund 
would be at retirement, the provider answered to follow. PWL then had to chase that 
provider for further information, eventually receiving it on 14 June 2022. But, it didnt receive 
all the information it needed from all the providers until 4 July 2022, when a DC pension 
provider gave extensive information about one of Mr As pension funds. 
However, by that date, 4 July, 2022, the CETV had already expired. But I dont think that 
was PWLs fault. Its evident that PWL was trying to gather all the information it needed from 
other sources in order to progress matters. But, it wasnt in control of when those sources 
would give it that information. And, in my view the principal cause of the delay up to this 
point was because PWL was awaiting information from third parties. In other words most of 
the delays were outside of its control.
PWL eventually sent Mr A its abridged advice report on 19 July 2022. Its conclusion was that 
it had insufficient information to make a recommendation and suggested Mr A should take 
full advice. 
Mr A said that not everything went as it should up to that point. For example, he said PWL 
asked him to send it information hed already provided. And I can certainly see that 
happened on at least one occasion, when PWL confirmed it had sent him an automated 
email asking him to complete questionnaires hed already completed. Also PWL didnt send 
him a health questionnaire until 4 July 2022, when it could have requested that information 
from him far earlier. But I dont think it was duplicated or delayed requests for information 
from Mr A which caused the majority of the delays. 
Similarly, Mr A said he phoned PWL shortly before going on holiday in early July 2022. He 
said it confirmed it had everything it needed. But, soon after travelling abroad, PWL phoned 
and emailed him asking for further information like bank statements. I can understand how, 
having been told PWL had everything it needed, this must have been frustrating for Mr A. 
But by that time the CETV had already expired. So, I dont think any error by PWL at this 
point in the process was the cause of the CETV losing value. 
Mr A said the DB scheme administrators had told him it would extend the CETV guarantee 
date by a few weeks. He hasn't provided evidence to support that. But, assuming the 
administrators would have honoured that undertaking, I find it unlikely that PWL could have 
completed the full advice process within that timeframe. 
PWL didn't receive all the information it needed to complete the abridged advice until 
4 July 2022. It sent Mr A its abridged advice report on 19 July 2022. In the meantime its likely it would have had to put that advice to its compliance team to ensure it wasnt falling 
foul of the regulators rules. So I dont find that short delay unwarranted.
Further, PWL then needed Mr As written instruction both that he had understood its advice 
and also that he was happy to pay its fee. PWL chooses not to charge for abridged advice 
and would only charge Mr A if he chose to take full advice. In this case the full advice fee 
was around £3,570. Mr A returned the required information on 16 August 2022. Only at that 
point could PWL have moved on to considering full advice. And by that time I think, on 
balance, its likely that any extension of the guaranteed CETV date the DB scheme 
administrators may have granted would have expired. 
Also, even after completing abridged advice there were a number of further steps for PWL to 
take before it could have concluded the process. For example it had to obtain an appropriate 
pension transfer advice report (APTA)  which is a regulatory requirement. 
PWL would also have had to carry out an assessment of the underlying investments where 
the DB funds were to be transferred to. Thats also a mandatory part of the process. So, 
even if Mr A knew where he wanted the funds to be transferred to PWL couldnt just have 
accepted his views about that. It would still have had to produce an appropriate analysis of 
why the chosen alternative arrangement would be suitable. 
Only having taken those steps, and gathered any further information PWL needed in the 
process, could it have made a personal recommendation, which it then needed to set out in 
writing. And most of these stages would require the involvement of PWLs compliance team. 
And, theres no guarantee that PWLs final recommendation would have been that Mr A 
should transfer his DB funds elsewhere.
It follows that while it might have seemed to Mr A that a transfer was a fairly straightforward 
process with an obvious outcome, that wouldnt have been PWLs approach. Each of the 
advice steps set out above takes thought, careful analysis and awareness of the regulatory 
landscape. So all these things take time. And, while PWL hasn't done everything as 
smoothly as it could have done, I haven't seen evidence it caused significantly unreasonable 
delays. 
That said, I've heard Mr A tell PWL in a call recording that none of its staff advised him at the 
outset about the timescales involved or that the CETV guarantee date was unlikely to be 
met. I wasnt given a copy of the recording of PWLs initial call with Mr A. But it would have 
been helpful if it had told him about the likely timescales involved. Thats especially so 
because, at that point (21 April 2022), three weeks had already elapsed since the DB 
scheme administrators had given Mr A the CETV, which put PWL under more pressure to 
meet the deadline
Ill explain that, when theyre in a position to do so, some advising firms will tell clients 
looking for DB pension transfer advice not to ask for a CETV quote until the firm has already 
gathered much of the evidence required. That way the CETV clock isn't ticking while third 
parties such as other pension providers and DB scheme administrators supply further 
evidence. That will then allow advising firms more time to complete the rest of the advice 
process without the threat of the CETV imminently expiring. 
But that wasnt the case here as Mr A had already received a CETV offer when he 
approached PWL. I've noted PWL told Mr A in an October 2022 phone call that it was 
always unlikely that it could have met the deadline. If PWL had been clear about that at the 
outset then Mr A could have chosen, at that point, to see if he could find an advising firm 
who would undertake to provide advice within the deadline. That said, on balance, I suspect that might have been a fruitless search. I say that because DB pension transfer advice is a 
specialist area. Advisers have to hold specific qualifications which aren't commonly held by 
all financial advisers. And those that do hold the relevant qualifications are aware of the 
regulatory hurdles that they need to overcome, and the likely timescales involved, in 
achieving that. So its possible that Mr A would have struggled to find an adviser who would 
have committed to meeting the CETV guarantee date.
Ill add that Mr A believes hes lost out financially because the CETV has gone down. But, 
while transferring currently would involve a smaller sum than the DB administrators offered 
previously, he hasn't actually lost out. That's because while the CETV changed, that doesn't 
mean his DB scheme benefits are worth any less. It simply means the market rates used to 
calculate the CETVs has altered. That is why CETVs are only usually guaranteed for three 
months, because their value changes in line with movements in certain financial markets, 
most notably interest, gilt and discount rates. But, a fall in the CETV sum is not the same as 
a fall in the worth of his DB scheme benefits. Should he choose to take them, those are still 
guaranteed, index linked and will increase yearly for the remainder of his life once he starts 
taking an income. So, while Mr A may not agree, as he remains a member of the DB 
scheme, he hasn't lost out in terms of his retirement income.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman