DRN-3947031
The complaint
Mr N complains that Monmouthshire Building Society (MBS) asked him for documents that 
were not needed and then lost in the post.
What happened
Mr N says he opened a MBS account and on 25 January 2022 received a letter from it 
asking for a signed mandate as well as a certified or original copy of his bank statement. He 
says he signed the form and enclosed his bank statement in the pre-paid envelope and 
returned it to MBS. Mr N says he was told the letter had not been received but was also told 
he wasnt required to have provided his bank statement. He says he ought to have been told 
that before he sent it off and is worried about the loss of his personal information. Mr N 
would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
MBS says it sent Mr N a template letter which asked for the signed mandate form to be 
signed. It accepts the letter asked for the bank statement but says it wasnt required here. 
MBS says it isnt responsible for letters lost in the post and says it hasnt made a mistake.
Mr N brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought MBS needed the signed mandate and it was clear what documents were required. 
The investigator didnt think MBS was responsible for the safe delivery of the mail and says it 
wasnt part of its process to request the documents Mr N provided.
Mr N doesnt accept that view and says the legal issue of causation hasnt been 
considered.
I asked MBS to explain its letter as it seemed it required a bank statement. MBS says it is a 
template letter and Mr N had provided the required information in December 2021.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and said that I intended to uphold it. But I made 
clear to Mr N that we are not a court, and it was not our role to determine legal issues as he 
suggested. I said we look at a complaint to decide if a business has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of it.
I looked carefully at MBSs letter of 25 January 2022 which is the key document. I was 
satisfied that letter asked Mr N to check his bank account details which he held with a 
different bank and sign as well as return the letter. But at the start of the letter, it said
As a security precaution we always confirm in writing the details you have provided as well 
as asking for evidence in the form of an original or certified copy of your bank statement.
I appreciated MBS says the letter is a template letter and that it already had that information 
but said I cant see how Mr N would know that or reasonably appreciated that the letter was 
a standard letter which didnt require him to provide his bank statement. If MBS didnt require 
that information, then I thought it ought to have removed that line from the letter to avoid 
what took place here.
I said there was no issue here that MBS is not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail 
and so I couldnt fairly hold it responsible for the letter being lost. But I was satisfied that if 
MBS made clear that it didnt require the bank statement then Mr N would not have sent it to 
it. So, I was satisfied that MBSs unclear letter caused Mr N to send it the bank statement 
that wasnt required. If that letter was clear or had the request for the bank statement been 
removed, then I was satisfied Mr N would not have sent it. It follows that I thought MBS was 
partially responsible for what took place.
I had no doubt Mr N would have been concerned that his bank statement had been lost and 
would have spent some time trying to sort matters out. I accepted he was caused distress 
and inconvenience. But I didnt think Mr N suffered any financial loss and didnt think his 
account security was compromised. My provisional view was that MBS should pay £150 
compensation which I thought fair and reasonable.
Mr N doesnt wish to comment further on my provisional decision.
MBS says it would like to know why Mr N sent it a similar form in December 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I cant see that Mr N sending MBS a form in December 
2021 has any relevance to his response to the letter MBS send him on 25 January 2022. I 
have made clear that Im satisfied that letter was confusing and not clear.
Putting things right
MBS should pay £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Monmouthshire Building Society 
pay Mr N £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman