DRN-3769947
The complaint
Mrs F complains about how Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited handled her claim
when her car was damaged and that the car was written off without her consent.
The complaint has been brought to our service by Mrs Fs husband on her behalf. For ease
of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as made by Mrs F and all correspondence as being
between Mrs F and Watford.
What happened
In August 2020 the rear windscreen of Mrs Fs car was damaged when her car was
vandalised. She has insurance for her car with Watford and made a claim on her policy.
Watford arranged for her vehicle to be repaired. When it was inspected Mrs F was told that
the cars roof needed replacing as there was glass imbedded in it.
The roof repair was carried out by a main dealer, rather than Watfords approved repairer.
And when the car was returned to the approved repairer this was with instructions that the
water seal around the rear windscreen needed replacing. But this wasnt done before the car
was returned to Mrs F.
After the car was returned to her in September 2020 Mrs F says it was parked on her drive
and she didnt use it for about a month. When she did go to use it, in around October 2020,
the car smelt musty and the boot was soaking and mouldy. This happened because water
had leaked into the car during heavy rain due to the missing water seal.
Mrs F was advised to return the car to the approved repairers who provided a courtesy car
while further repairs were carried out.
In mid-December 2020 Mrs F was told that her car was ready for collection. Mrs F was
unwilling to collect it without assurances that sensitive electrical equipment in the boot of the
car, such as the engine management system, hadnt been damaged and that the car was
safe.
On 29 December 2020 Mrs F contacted Watford to advise them that she wasnt happy to
accept the car back, as she was concerned about the integrity of the vehicle following the
water damage. Watford agreed that the car should go to a main dealership for a full
inspection. And they arranged a hire car for her while investigations were ongoing.
On 18 February 2021 Watford received the diagnostic assessment on the car which didnt
identify any faults. Mrs F remained unhappy about the integrity of the car, as she wasnt
satisfied that the that the checks carried out had covered the electrical equipment in the cars
boot.
As Mrs F hadnt agreed to accept the car back, Watford decided to handle her claim in a
different way. They treated it as a constructive total loss, where the cost of repairs didnt
exceed the value of the car, but there were concerns about the integrity of the vehicle.
Mrs Fs policy doesnt cover the provision of a hire vehicle if her car has been deemed a total
loss. But due to what had happened Watford agreed to her keeping the hire vehicle until her
claim was settled.
On 3 March 2021 Watford received their engineers report which valued Mrs Fs car at
£20,380, as a constructive total loss. On 15 March 2021 they contacted Mrs F to request the
documents they needed to validate her claim. Mrs F responded saying she was confused as
the valuation didnt cover the outstanding finance on her car.
Watford replied saying theyd pay the market value for her car. And any shortfall between
this and the outstanding finance would be for her to settle with the finance company.
Watford made the decision to settle the claim on 16 April 2021 when they hadnt been able
to reach an agreement with Mrs F about the value of her car. They made a payment to the
finance company on 30 April 2021 and took ownership of the car. Mrs F was unhappy with
this as it left her without a car. She wanted Watford to clear the outstanding balance due on
her finance agreement and provide her with a replacement car. She said this would place
her in the position shed have been in had errors not been made when her car was being
repaired.
Mrs F is also unhappy that the belongings shed left in the car were lost, as the storage
company sent them to the wrong address. She says that there were several high value items
in the car and shes unhappy that Watford have asked for proof of ownership of these items
and wouldnt allow her to retrieve these herself.
Mrs F raised a complaint with Watford. They said when she advised them she was
concerned about the integrity of the car, theyd arranged a diagnostic assessment. Despite
this not showing any faults, she remained unhappy, so they arranged to deal with the car as
a constructive total loss. They accepted that it was their appointed repairers failure to fit the
water seal to the rear windscreen that had led to the car being damaged and written off. And
they apologised for this.
They said that under the terms and conditions of her policy they were settling her claim by
paying the cost of her loss. Which was the market value or her car. And she wasnt entitled
to a replacement car, as her car didnt fit the criteria for a new car replacement under section
one of her policy.
Watford accepted that when they provided Mrs F with a breakdown of the settlement 
payment, they failed to take into account that shed already paid her policy excess to the 
repairers and apologised for this. They also apologised for not contacting her before 
payment was made to the finance company, and for not advising her that as settlement had 
been agreed she was no longer entitled to a hire vehicle. But they said they werent 
prepared to meet any further hire costs she incurred.
Mrs F had contacted Watford on 22 April 2021 asking them to return her car in the condition
it was in prior to it being damaged in August 2020. Watford said this wasnt possible and the
reason the car had been written off was because shed indicated, since December 2020, that
she wasnt happy to have it back as she was concerned about its integrity.
And Watford said that her request that they clear the finance on her vehicle and pay for a
new car, wasnt possible and wasnt a reasonable request. They said were meeting their
obligations under her policy, by settling her claim on a total loss basis based on the market
value of her car.
To resolve matters Watford said theyd clear the outstanding finance in full and offered £250
compensation for breakdowns in communication and not providing full answers to questionsMrs F had raised.
Mrs F didnt accept Watfords response and complained to our service. Our investigator
considered the case and provided his opinion.
Before he provided his opinion our investigator asked Watford for an update on the items
Mrs F said had been left in her car and hadnt been returned to her. Watford advised him
that theyd sent Mrs F an inventory of the items recovered from the car by their storage
agents in July 2021, and again in September 2021. Theyd asked her to provide a full
description of the items she says were in the car, and proof of purchase. And in November
2021 theyd told her that once they had this evidence, theyd review it and look to reimburse 
her. But shed not responded to them.
Our investigator first considered the quality of repairs and Watfords decision to write off the
car. He said that Mrs Fs policy gave Watford the option to decide how theyd deal with claim
if her car was damaged. They initially arranged for the car to be repaired, which was what
hed expect them to do.
And when Mrs F said she wasnt happy that the car was safe, after the further repairs were
completed, he thought it was reasonable for Watford to arrange for a main dealership to
complete diagnostic testing. And despite Mrs Fs view that the tests carried out were
incomplete, he also thought it was reasonable for Watford to accept the reports findings that
the car had no faults.
Mrs Fs policy states that any repairs done through their approved repairers are guaranteed
for five years and parts are guaranteed for the time she owns the car. So our investigator
was satisfied Watford had taken appropriate steps to ensure the car was safe. And to
provide assurances that if problems arose with the car, these would be covered.
As Mrs F wasnt satisfied with the repairs and wouldnt accept the car back, Watford made
the decision to write it off. Our investigator thought this was reasonable as theyd done all
they could to repair the car before taking this step.
After the car had been written Mrs F told Watford she wanted it back. Our investigator said
this wasnt possible as it had already been declared a total loss, so it had become Watfords
property.
As the car had been bought on finance it wasnt Mrs Fs property until the finance had been 
paid in full. So our investigator said Watford couldnt return the car to her without the consent
of the finance company which was never provided. Watford had told Mrs F this on 22 April
2021.
Our investigator then considered Mrs Fs complaint about Watford withdrawing the provision
of a courtesy car once her car had been declared a total loss. Her policy says a courtesy car
will be provided while her vehicle is being repaired by one of their approved garages. Mrs F
was provided with a courtesy car from August 2020 to April 2021, apart from a few weeks in
September 2020 when her car was first returned to her.
Because the further repairs had been completed, our investigator said Watford werent
obliged to continue to provide a courtesy car after 28 January 2021, when it was confirmed
the car had been tested at and faults were found. But they continued to provide a car until
April 2021 when the claim was settled. And as her policy makes it clear that a courtesy car
isnt provided if her car has been declared a total loss, he said it wouldnt be fair to expect
Watford to continue to provide a courtesy car after the claim was settled.Mrs F also wasnt happy with the amount Watford offered for her car. Our investigator said
Watford had obtained an independent valuation of her car. This gave a valuation of £20,380.
Theyd also obtained two valuations using independent motor trade guide websites. These
gave valuations of £18,095 and £18,366. As Watford had used the highest valuation, rather
than an average of the three valuations, he felt theyd acted fairly.
Mrs F felt Watford shouldnt have paid the settlement figure directly to the finance company
but our investigator said her policy terms and conditions provided for them to do this. Shed
complained that the payment didnt cover her outstanding finance. Our investigator said this
was a complaint about her GAP insurance, so he couldnt comment on this.
In respect of the items Mrs F says were left in the car and not returned to her, our
investigator said the storage agents had been through the car and itemised the contents to
send these to her. Unfortunately, these were sent to the wrong address and werent received
by Mrs F. Mrs Fs policy limits the amount theyll pay for lost property to £150. And says
documentary evidence may be required to substantiate a claim.
The list of items Mrs F has said were in the car includes a wedding ring she valued at £9,200
and other items valued at £1,800. The list prepared by the storage agents didnt include a
ring. Watford have said theyre prepared to consider the claim subject to receipt of
documentary evidence. Which hasnt been provided.
Given the value of the ring our investigator felt it was reasonable for Watford to request
documentary evidence. And he felt theyd dealt with issue of Mrs Fs lost property fairly to
date
.
Our investigator acknowledged that theyd been some mistakes and delays in the handling
of Mrs Fs claim by Watford. But he felt the £250 compensation theyd offered her for this
was fair, so he didnt ask them to do anything more.
Mrs F wasnt happy with our investigators opinion. As she said Watford hadnt treated her
fairly and had failed to return her property which had been left in her car.
We asked her to provide further information about the impact of Watfords handling of her
claim. Shes told us that she needed a car to get to work, to take her elderly mother to
hospital and doctors appointments and to go shopping. And she didnt have a vehicle when
Watford would no longer provide a courtesy car.
When the car was returned to her it was left outside her home, with the keys left on the
exterior allowing for it to be stolen.
She had to continue to make her finance payments for seven months between her car being
damaged and written off. This caused financial strain and family arguments and led to her
separating from her husband. And this happened at a time when she was receiving
treatment for cancer and didnt need any additional stress in her life.
Shes also said that her belongings left in the car have never been returned. And Watford
havent offered any apology or reimbursement for these.
The case then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 15 September 
2022. And in it I said: -
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mrs Fs car shouldnt have been returned to her without Watfords approved repairers
having completed the repairs by fitting a water seal to the rear windscreen. But thats what
happened, so I need to consider whether the actions Watford took from that point were
reasonable, and in line with her policy terms and conditions.
When Watford were notified on the further damage to the car, they arranged for it to go back
to their approved repairers who provided Mrs F with a courtesy car. This is what Id have
expected to happen. In December 2020 Watford were told that Mrs F wasnt prepared to
accept the car back after the further repairs had been completed, as she was concerned
about its safety. They arranged for a diagnostic report to be prepared by a main dealership. I
think this was a reasonable step for them to take, to reassure Mrs F that her car was safe.
And they arranged for her to be provided with a hire car until the report was received.
The report was received in February 2021 and didnt identify any ongoing faults with the car.
At this point there was confirmation that the car was safe and could be returned to Mrs F. So
Watford were no longer required to provide her with a hire car. Mrs F still wasnt satisfied
that the car was safe and wanted assurances that if further problems arose with the car,
shed be covered for these.
Watford had arranged for Mrs Fs car to be repaired as her policy required them to do. But,
because of what had happened they decided to treat the car as constructive total loss. As
their appointed repairers were responsible for the further damage to the car after the initial
repairs had been completed. I think this was a reasonable approach for them to take.
Particularly as Mrs F had made it clear she wasnt happy to take the car back, despite the
findings of the diagnostic report. And Watford agreed to continue to provide her with a hire
car until her claim was settled. Which is what I would have expected them to do.
From the emails passing between Mrs F and Watford it appears she initially accepted that
her car had been written off, and only later when she was unhappy with the valuation placed
on it, wanted it returned to her.
Having agreed that the car should be written off Watford arranged an independent valuation,
which valued the car at £20,380. They obtained two further valuations and made their offer
based on the highest of these, the independent valuation. In the event of the car being
written off Mrs Fs policy says she should receive market value. Based on what Ive seen
Im satisfied that Watford valued the car fairly.
It appears that Mrs F has misunderstood what Watford were required to do after her car was
written off. In addition to receiving the market value for the car, which in this case was paid
to the finance company, she expected Watford to provide her with a new car. Her policy
does include New Car Cover which states that Watford will, if the car is a total loss, replace
it with a new car of the same make, model and specification. But this is only if set criteria are
met, including the car being less than a year old. And Mrs Fs car didnt meet these criteria.
So Watford werent required to provide Mrs F with a new car. Once theyd paid the market
value for the car to the finance company, theyd met their obligations under the terms and
conditions of Mrs Fs policy. And when Mrs F contacted them on 22 April 2021 asking them
to return the car in the condition it was in before it was damaged in August 2020, this wasnt
something they could do, or something Id expect them to do at this point after the car had
been written off.
In relation to Mrs Fs personal belongings which she says were left in the car. Watford have
advised her that this were sent to the wrong address by their storage agents and havent
been returned. Although her policy limits cover for lost items to £150 Watford have asked
Mrs F for proof of purchase and have said theyll consider the claim on receipt of this. So itsnot correct that theyve simply refused to return the items or cover their replacement value.
Theyve made it clear that they cant return the items and theyve apologised for their agents
sending them to the wrong address. The storage agents provided a list of the items
recovered from the car and this didnt include an expensive wedding ring. Given the value of
the items said to have been left in the car, a total of £11,000, I think its perfectly reasonable
for Watford to request proof of purchase or valuations for these items. Watford have said
theyll consider this claim further on receipt of the documents theyve requested. So if Mrs F
wants to pursue this she needs to provide the evidence theyve requested.
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about having to continue to make the finance payments
on her car while it was being repaired and while her claim was being resolved. The finance
agreement was entered into between her and the finance company. And while I appreciate
her frustration in not having use of the car she was paying for, Watford did provide her with a
courtesy car or a hire vehicle until April 2021. So I dont think I can ask them to cover or
contribute to her finance payments as this would result in her getting a double benefit. As
she was provided with a replacement vehicle and the finance payments were paying down
the cost of car and the amount due to the finance company.
Watford have accepted that they havent got everything right in dealing with Mrs Fs claim.
Had their approved repairers completed the repair to the rear windscreen correctly, then her
car wouldnt have ended up being written off. They accept that when they arranged for the
car to be collected to go for diagnostic testing in January 2021, they didnt give Mrs F notice
of this, so she didnt have the opportunity to remove her personal effects from the car.
They also accept that when dealing with the settlement they failed to take into account that
Mrs F had paid her policy excess to the approved repairers, and initially deducted this from
the settlement figure. And that when the payment had been raised to send to the finance
company, they didnt let Mrs F know this had been done or that theyd be arranging for the
hire car to be collected.
Watford also told Mrs F that the claim had taken longer to resolve because of a breakdown
of communications on their part. And that on several occasions questions shes raised hadnt
been answered fully, or at all.
Mrs F has told us about the impact this has had on her and I understand that she was
dealing with her claim at a time when she wasnt well and there were other family pressures.
Given all that Watford got wrong I dont think the £250 she was offered was sufficient to
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience the way her claim was handled has
caused. Although Watford werent to blame for Mrs Fs personal circumstances, I think their
mistakes exacerbated what was already a very stressful time for her. Taking everything into
account I think £750 is the appropriate figure, inclusive of the £250 Watford have offered
already.
So my provisional decision was that I partially upheld Mrs Fs complaint.
Watford havent responded to my provisional decision.
Mrs F has said that I didnt address the issue of her property left in the car which had not 
been returned. We replied to Mrs F advising her that this issue had been addressed in my 
provisional decision. We reminded her that Watford had requested information about her lost 
property which they say she hasnt provided. So to pursue this she was told she needed to 
provide the evidence and information theyd requested. And we provided her with details of 
how to contact Watford with the information theyd requested about her lost property.Shes also said that she needed more time to provide further evidence and she didnt feel 
that shed benefitted for bring the case to us, so she was considering obtaining legal advice. 
We told Mrs F that we needed to be fair to both parties and bring this case to a conclusion. 
Mrs F was given until 21 October to confirm whether she wished to withdraw her complaint, 
or Id proceed and issue my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watford havent responded to my provisional decision. Mrs F hasnt provided any further 
evidence she wants me to consider or confirmed that she wishes to withdraw her complaint. 
So I see no reason to review the findings set out in my provisional decision, which partially 
upheld Mrs Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partially uphold Mrs Fs complaint about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited.
And to put things right I require them to pay her £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience their handling of her claim has caused. This figure is inclusive of the £250 
theyd previously offered her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman