DRN-2272460
The complaint
Mrs A complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) and the quote they provided 
to her when she enquired about how much it would cost to transfer money to a US account.
What happened
In late April 2020, Mrs A spoke to RBS over the telephone. On this call, she asked how 
much it would cost her in sterling to transfer $75,000.00 to an account in the US. She was 
told it would cost her roughly £55,00.000. As this was the best quote Mrs A had found, she 
agreed to proceed with this transaction.
But, on the same day, £61,304.89 was debited from her account for the transaction. Mrs A 
was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs A was unhappy that RBS had debited a much larger sum from her account than the one 
she was quoted on the call. She explained shed chosen to proceed with RBS because of 
this quote and wouldve used another vendor had she been told it would cost the debited 
amount. Because of this, she felt RBS should refund her the difference between the quoted 
amount and the debited amount, which totalled £6,304.89.
RBS responded to her complaint and upheld it. They explained theyd listened to the call and 
agreed their advisor hadnt calculated the quote incorrectly. And they apologised for this. But 
they didnt offer to refund the difference of £6,304.89. They explained they were unable to 
say for certain that Mrs A had suffered a financial loss as they had no evidence to show 
other vendors offered a better rate of exchange than the one they used during the 
transaction. They explained that if Mrs A could provide evidence of a quote she obtained 
with a better rate from a different vendor, they would consider refunding Mrs A the difference 
between that quote and the amount Mrs As account was debited. 
Mrs A was unhappy with this. She explained she hadnt kept copies of other quotes she 
found as she decided to proceed with RBS due to the information they provided on the call. 
So, she didnt think it was fair to ask her to provide evidence she couldnt obtain. As Mrs A 
remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He agreed RBS had quoted Mrs A 
incorrectly on the call. And he recognised the confusion and upset Mrs A wouldve felt when 
seeing a much larger amount had been debited from her account. To recognise this upset, 
he thought RBS should pay Mrs A £200.00. But he didnt think it would be fair to ask RBS to 
refund her the £6,304.89 difference. He explained that, without evidence to show Mrs A had 
been quoted a better rate from other vendors, he was unable to say for certain that the 
amount RBS debited from Mrs As account was more that she wouldve paid elsewhere. So, 
he couldnt say for certain that shed incurred a financial loss. He explained if Mrs A could 
provide evidence of this, hed reconsider this view.
RBS accepted our investigators view and the compensation he suggested. But Mrs A didnt 
agree. She explained she was unable to provide evidence of quotes shed received from 
other vendors at that time. And she didnt think it was fair for the refund to not be considered 
because of this. She explained she acted in good faith on the information RBS provided 
incorrectly and thought this error was enough to show RBS should refund her the difference. 
As Mrs A didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Its not in dispute that RBS made an error when quoting Mrs A £55,000.00 to transfer 
$75,000.00 to a US account. RBS recognised they made an error in their response to Mrs 
As complaint. And because of this, I think RBS acted unfairly and unreasonably. So, Ive 
focused my decision on what I think RBS should do to recognise this error, and the impact 
its had on Mrs A.
Ive no doubt Mrs A wouldve been shocked and confused when she realised £61,304.89 
had left her account, rather than the £55,000.00 shed been quoted initially. I recognise the 
difference between the two amounts is a significant amount of money and I can appreciate 
the upset this wouldve caused. And because of this, I think RBS should compensate Mrs A 
to put things right.
Putting things right
Im aware its what RBS should do to put things right thats in dispute. Mrs A thinks RBS 
should refund her the £6,304.89 difference between the amount she was quoted, and the 
amount debited from her account. This is because she feels she only proceeded based on 
the incorrect quote and if shed have been quoted correctly, shed have used another 
vendor. So, Ive considered whether I think this is a reasonable expectation. And in this 
situation, I dont think it is.
I understand why Mrs A feels shes incurred a financial loss, as an additional amount was 
debited from her account that she didnt expect. From Mrs As point of view, she felt she 
entered into an agreement with RBS based on the quote they provided. So, I can understand 
why she thinks RBS should honour that agreement.
But, Im unable to say for certain that Mrs A has lost out financially. Thats because Ive seen 
no evidence to show that other vendors were offering a better rate of exchange at the time of 
the transaction. So, I cant say that the £61,304.89 she was debited left her financially worse 
off than if she had proceeded with another vendor. And because of this, it wouldnt be fair for 
me to say RBS should refund the difference. 
I do understand this is frustrating for Mrs A as she didnt keep any records of quotes shed 
received from other vendors. So, she feels shes been asked to provide evidence that is 
impossible to supply. But any decision I make must be fair to both Mrs A and RBS and must 
be based on the evidence Im able to see. And without proof of quotes with a better 
exchange rate, I cant say there is a financial loss RBS should cover.But I can say for certain that Mrs A was charged more than the information RBS provided led 
her to expect. And I think this wouldve been a shock to Mrs A when she saw the amount 
leave her account. I think Mrs A wouldve been left upset that shed been led into agreeing 
the transaction with RBS on incorrect information and had lost the opportunity to use another 
vendor or research other quotes further. So, I think she should be compensated for this.
Im aware our investigator recommended a payment of £200.00 to recognise this, which 
RBS have agreed with. And I think this amount is a fair one and in line with what I wouldve 
directed RBS to pay. So, I think RBS should pay Mrs A £200.00 to recognise the upset shes 
been caused as a result of the error they made.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs As complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs A £200.00 to recognise the upset shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman