DRN-3330316
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc refused to allow them to complete their 
self build mortgage and recorded information about them on the CIFAS fraud prevention 
database following their application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K applied to BoI for a mortgage on a self-build property. BoI agreed bridging 
finance to fund the construction, with mortgage funds to be drawn down on completion to 
repay the bridging finance. The mortgage offer was valid for 12 months, which meant that 
was the deadline for completing the property.
Mr and Mrs K began building their property and drew down the funds. They were unable to 
complete the property within 12 months  they say due to bad weather delaying construction 
 and so the mortgage offer lapsed.
Mr and Mrs K therefore had to re-apply for their mortgage. BoI rejected their application and 
 unknown to Mr and Mrs K at the time  also made an entry about them in the CIFAS 
database.
Mr and Mrs K say they were able to complete their build, but only by borrowing the funds 
they needed from family and friends. BoI agreed to convert the bridging into a separate loan, 
but would not offer them a mortgage.
CIFAS is an industry-wide database used to share information in the interests of fraud 
prevention. Among other things, it allows lenders to share information about applications it 
has concerns about. In this case, it placed a marker for application fraud under Mr Ks name, 
on the basis that he had declared false income on the application.
Mr and Mrs K say they did not mislead BoI in their application. And the marker caused them 
difficulties in obtaining further finance they needed. And it has caused further problems with 
Mr K getting the credit he needs for his self-employed business.
Mr and Mrs K complained. But BoI did not agree to remove the marker, so they brought their 
complaint to us.
BoI said it had assessed Mr and Mrs Ks application to extend the time for completing the 
mortgage, but had declined the application. It had considered the information they provided 
but had concerns about some of it. In particular, it was concerned by what it considered to 
be discrepancies between the income Mr K declared and his companys
accounts.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my view of the complaint. I said:
In considering this complaint, Ive noted that the CIFAS database plays an important part in 
the security of the financial industry  and that placing a marker about an individual can have 
serious consequences for them. The database therefore sets a threshold for members  
such as BoI  in making a report. Its a principle of the database that an entry should only be 
made where theres clear relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that BoI could 
confidently report the matter to the police or other authorities. That doesnt require a report to 
the police to actually be made, and theres no suggestion BoI did so here. But thats the 
standard of proof CIFAS requires of its members.
Ive borne that standard in mind in considering whether BoI acted fairly. In doing so, Ive 
noted that there are in law a number of fraud offences  but that a common feature is acting 
dishonestly for financial gain.
Ive gone on to look at the information Mr K provided, as well as the checks BoI carried out 
and the notes made by its underwriters.
In the application, Mr K stated that he was self-employed through his limited company, and 
set out his income. He also provided details of his accountants and tax records. Mrs K said 
that she was employed separately and provided payslips from her employer.
Mr Ks accountant provided a letter in support of the application. This had an incorrect figure 
and the accountant later corrected it, explaining it was a typing error.
BoI accepted that was an error. But it remained concerned about other discrepancies. In 
particular, it said that there were significant changes in the companys accounts from year to 
year; and that the figure for Mr Ks earnings in the accounts did not match the amount 
showing in his tax return to HMRC. It also said that associated bank accounts showed very 
little trading activity.
Ive considered the documents myself, and also taken account of BoIs concerns about 
Mr Ks finances.
It was content with what Mr K had said a year earlier, when the original mortgage offer was 
issued. But in relation to the second application, it was no longer happy. It was concerned 
about the income Mr K had declared and the evidence provided in support of that income. 
Mr Ks income according to the accounts and tax information was less than declared on the 
application  though it seems that some had been treated differently for tax purposes. And it 
seems Mr K had done less other work while he focussed on the build of the property, so 
some of his income was in effect the property loan. But from BoIs point of view it had 
concerns about whether Mr Ks income was sustainable.
I think those concerns were reasonable, and I dont therefore think it was unfair that BoI 
refused the second mortgage application. However, Im not persuaded that this went beyond 
affordability concerns or that there was clear relevant and rigorous evidence that Mr K had 
deliberately and dishonestly given BoI false information about his income  which, as Ive 
said, is the threshold for making a report to CIFAS. I think it would therefore be fair for BoI to 
remove the marker.
Ive not seen any evidence that the presence of the marker caused Mr K financial loss. 
When he replies to this provisional decision, if Mr K has any evidence of loss he should 
provide it and Ill take that into account.
But I do think discovering the marker and the upset that resulted caused Mr K distress and 
inconvenience. I intend to require BoI to pay £300 compensation for that.The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional decision. But BoI didnt. It said:
Mr and Mrs K didnt provide information that BoI requested when it requested it;
BoI was unable to verify the income they declared on the application;
It was concerned that the mortgage would not be affordable because it was 
concerned that Mr Ks business wasnt stable;
It was concerned that the businesss income wasnt accurately reflected in its 
accounts;
Mr Ks business has since been dissolved.
However, it didnt provide any further evidence that wasnt available when I reached my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again the findings in my provisional decision in light of the responses to 
it. But having done so I havent changed my mind. It was reasonable for BoI to refuse the 
mortgage application  it has a broad discretion about whether to lend, and must satisfy itself 
that the lending is affordable. However, for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that the standard for making an entry on the CIFAS database 
was met.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc to remove any markers made on external fraud databases in connection 
with this mortgage application, and pay Mr and Mrs K £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman