DRN-2955123
The complaint
Mr F complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed him to open three credit card 
accounts which were unaffordable and also increased the credit limit on one of the accounts.
What happened
Mr F says he opened three NewDay credit card accounts all of which were unaffordable. He 
says at the time his credit score was poor and he had debts of £8,000 as well as a number 
of defaults registered on his credit file. Mr F says the lending was irresponsible and would 
like interest and charges refunded and 8% interest paid on that refund.
NewDay says Mr F opened three accounts which I will call 1,2 and 3. It says account 1 was 
opened in 2017 and Mr F told it he was in employment earning over £17,000 a year with 
additional household income of £18,000 a year. It also says appropriate checks were carried 
out which showed Mr Fs debt at the time was about £1,700 and that he didnt have any 
recent adverse information on his credit file. NewDay says it offered a relatively modest 
credit limit of £300 which was increased to £1,200 with appropriate checks carried out.
NewDay says account 2 was opened in May 2019 and that it again carried out appropriate 
checks. It says Mr Fs income had increased and took into account his appropriate 
management of account 1. NewDay approved a credit limit of £600 and says the accounts 
were managed appropriately until about March 2020.
NewDay says account 3 was opened in March 2020 and says Mr F told it his and his 
household income had increased. It says Mr Fs overall debt had increased to about just 
under £10,000 and carried out appropriate checks.
Mr F brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought NewDay had carried out 
appropriate checks on accounts 1 and 2 as well as on the credit limit increases on account 
1. The investigator thought the defaults on Mr Fs credit file were some time before the first 
application and that the credit limits were relatively modest.
The investigator thought NewDay should not have approved account 3 and thought Mr Fs 
debt position had changed. The investigator thought Mr F had taken out payday loans at the 
end of 2019 and by that stage had a number of other credit accounts as well as loans. He 
recommended all interest and charges be refunded on that account.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and says it doesnt require income and expenditure details 
and says Mr F met its eligibility criteria.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view as the investigator and for similar 
reasons.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of that lending. For example, I wouldnt have expected NewDays checks for a credit 
facility, as here, to have been as detailed as for an application for a mortgage.
I have looked carefully at NewDays records and can see that for account 1 Mr F declared a 
total household income of over £35,000 with limited debts. I appreciate Mr F had defaults 
registered on his credit file, but Im satisfied they were some time before the application 
here. Im satisfied NewDay checked Mr Fs application and carried out checks on his credit 
file which didnt reveal any adverse information. Im also satisfied it carried out similar checks 
on the two-credit limit increases and approved relatively modest credit limits. So, Im 
satisfied that on account 1 NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
that application and on the credit limit increases. I also think on the face of it the account was 
affordable, and that Mr F managed that account appropriately for some years which I think 
provides additional evidence of its affordability.
I can see that account 2 was opened in May 2019 and that Mr F declared household income 
of well over £40,000. I can see that NewDay carried out checks on the application and 
calculated Mr Fs overall debt at just over £6,000 and that there was no adverse information 
of concern on his credit file. So, Im satisfied NewDay did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on this application and that it was affordable with a relatively modest 
credit limit of £600. I dont find the lending on either account 1 or 2 to be irresponsible and 
again can see Mr F managed the account appropriately for some time after the lending 
decision which I think provides additional evidence of that affordability. 
Mr F applied for account 3 in March 2020. I accept his income had increased but can see 
that NewDay was by this stage aware that his debt had also significantly increased, to about 
£10,000. I have looked at Mr Fs credit file and can see there were a number of new credit 
accounts, loans and payday lending. I can also see from NewDays records that it recorded 
Mr Fs indebtedness as high and its record says Mr Fs debt was more than £10,000 at 
£13,200. I also think NewDay ought to have been aware that there were signs from the other 
accounts that Mr F may have been experiencing financial difficulties for reasons that may not 
have been clear. In those circumstances I would have expected NewDay to have carried out 
further checks on Mr Fs financial position to understand why he was taking out payday 
loans and loans when on the face of it his income was increasing. And why he needed a 
third credit card account with it when he appeared to have been applying for other forms of 
credit and loans.
So, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks were not carried out on account 3 
and had those further checks been carried out I think it likely that NewDay may have decided 
not to approve that account application. I can see that very shortly after opening account 3 
Mr F told NewDay about his financial difficulties which I think provides support for the fact 
appropriate checks were not carried out on that account.  It follows that I think the lending on 
account 3 was irresponsible and that Mr F was in a very different position to the one he was 
previously in.
Putting things right
I appreciate NewDay may have sold the debt on account 3 and if so then no doubt it will 
have to buy it back and refund interest and charges applied on it which should be deducted 
from the balance owed. I dont think it likely that will result in any refund being payable to Mr 
F but if there is then NewDay should pay the usual 8% simple interest. And it should provide 
a certificate if any taxation is deducted from that amount. NewDay should also remove any 
adverse information about that account from Mr Fs credit file and agree with him an interest 
free repayment plan.I appreciate Mr F makes further complaints about how NewDay has dealt with him following 
his financial difficulties but those are not matters I can fairly comment on in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd to refund any 
charges and interest on account 3 and if there is a balance due after that refund then it 
should pay 8% simple interest on it to Mr F. NewDay should also remove any adverse 
information about that account from Mr Fs credit file and agree with him a suitable 
repayment plan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman