DRN-4272964
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the way in which Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) handled a claim 
under his storage insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F purchased clothes and sunglasses and was keeping them in storage. Unfortunately, a 
theft occurred from the storage unit in January 2023. Mr F reported the matter to the police, 
and also made a claim to Zurich under the storage insurance policy he held with Zurich. The 
claim was for just less £2,000. Zurich accepted Mr Fs claim for the stolen items, but it 
applied depreciation to the claim value and were only prepared to settle Mr Fs claim in the 
sum of £1,200. Mr F complained to Zurich however it maintained its stance.
Mr F was unhappy as he considered that the items had not only retained their value but 
some had increased in value. He referred his complaint to this service however the relevant 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He considered that Zurich had fairly assessed 
the claim and applied depreciation in line with current accepted industry practice. He thought 
that the items could fairly be considered to be second-hand items, even if they were bought 
as new and still tagged. He also thought that there was insufficient evidence to suggest that 
the items would have retained their initial value.
Mr F didnt agree with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, Zurich hasnt disputed that Mr F owned the items in question, nor has it 
disputed that the theft took place. The remaining question is whether it acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner in offering settlement on the basis of a depreciated value. I consider that 
it has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in this case, and Ill explain why. In determining 
this matter, Ive also considered the submissions of each party as summarised below.
Mr F said that his goods were covered for just under £2,000 and hed submitted receipts to 
evidence their value when purchased. He acknowledged that some of the items had been 
purchased some years previously. He quoted the relevant extract from the policy, however 
and stated that hed understood that the basis of valuation for loss of items would be the 
actual replacement value of the insured goods at the time of loss, or the insured value, 
whichever was the lowest. Mr F said that the replacement costs of most of the items stolen 
were much greater now than when purchased. Mr F also said that the policy made it clear 
that no deductible would be applied for theft accompanied by forcible and violent entry. He 
said the unit was forced open and the lock ripped off...which is forcible entry.
Mr F felt that the total value of most of his goods would at least stay the same due to the 
relevant clothing brand names, and that replacement prices were much greater. He said that 
most of the items were still brand new with the tags still attached. Mr F said that hed stored 
his items in good faith and never expected his unit to be broken into due to its location. Mr F 
provided photographic evidence to show how he kept his items before the incident, some 
with tags on them. He provided photos of the damage to his unit and to tags that were left 
there. He said that unfortunately, he couldnt provide photos of the remainder of the tags, or 
they didnt come with tags. He also provided a photo of a sunglasses box with everything, 
including the shipping box it came in. When making his claim, Mr F had provided a list of the 
stolen goods with their estimated purchase value and purchase year. 
Finally, Mr F provided information from weblinks and quoted the increased value of certain 
items and considered that hed provided enough evidence to back up his claim. He said that 
the theft shouldnt have happened in the first place if the building had been secure and 
managed properly. He said he was struggling to understand Zurichs stance and said that his 
claim was legitimate and that its not my fault my stuff was stolen. He wanted to know why it 
was down to the customer to provide all the requested information as this wasnt stated 
anywhere in the agreement.
I now turn to what Zurich has said about the matter. In its final response letter in June 2023, 
it said that it had carefully reviewed the matter. Whilst it could understand Mr Fs frustrations, 
it didnt consider that it had acted unfairly in its application of depreciation as this was 
standard industry practice. It offered to Mr F to pay £1,200 in settlement and said that this 
was less than initially claimed because of the depreciation of the items. It explained its 
calculations were based on depreciation for items at a level of 10% per year with a certain 
minimum remaining value and for clothing 30% in the first year, with 10% then per year, also 
with a certain minimum remaining value.
 
Zurich stated that whilst it appreciated that there may be a market increase in the value of 
some items, it considered that its decision was still correct. It considered that it hadnt been 
supplied with evidence which conclusively proved that the items had all been kept in brand 
new condition. It said that Mr F didnt keep clothes to sell them and make a profit and said he 
had no history of doing so and had said I just like to keep them that way. It referred to one 
item of clothing as an example, where the tags showed that the item was bought at a sale 
price, but still considered that depreciation needed to be taken into consideration. It had also 
written to Mr F to state it didnt consider it could pay the value as new for items that were 3 to 
7 years old, and certainly couldnt pay more than the original purchase price. 
The starting point in matters of this nature is the wording of the relevant policy. The policy 
covers loss to goods during storage, including where a theft occurred accompanied by 
forcible and violent entry as in this case. Under the heading Basis of valuation, the terms 
and conditions state that settlement of a claim shall include replacement or compensation at 
Zurichs option and Zurich chose to pay compensation. The terms also stated; In the event 
of a total lossof an insured item, the basis of valuation shall be the actual value of the 
insured good at the time of loss. They also stated that a valuation would be limited to the 
replacement value and/or the insured value, whichever is the lowest. Insurers will take into 
account the age, quality, wear and tear and consequent market value of any such lost or 
damaged item. Where items were underinsured, the customer would only be entitled to 
recover a proportionately reduced sum. Whilst the terms and conditions stated that no 
deductible would be applied in the case of a relevant theft claim, it was clear that a 
deductible was an excess amount which would be applied in certain circumstances, but 
which didnt apply in this instance. Finally, in agreeing the policy, the policy holder agreed to 
submit all documentation in relation to the claim.
Im satisfied that the actual value of the goods at the time of loss would take into account the 
specific age, quality and condition of each item. I note that the age of the relevant items 
varies, from recent to 7 years. The brands of each item are evidenced. Whilst Mr F considered that as some items retained their tags they were as new, they were 
nevertheless second hand. I appreciate that items can increase in value over time despite 
being pre-owned. 
Unfortunately, however, Mr F has been unable to provide persuasive evidence and 
documentation to show that each individual item of the specific age and condition of his  
items has retained or increased in value. The replacement value would likewise need to 
reflect their age and second-hand nature. On the balance of probabilities, where some may 
have retained value, its likely that others will not. In all the circumstances I cant say that 
Zurich has acted in an unfair or reasonable manner in applying depreciation.
As to the depreciation calculations provided by Zurich, again I cant say that the average 
percentage reductions it has used to reflect the age of each item, has been unfair or 
unreasonable. This standard industry approach isnt unreasonable in this case. In all the 
circumstances, I also cant say that its offer of settlement in the sum of £1,200 was unfair or 
unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and I dont require Zurich 
Insurance Plc to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman