DRN-3336913
The complaint
Mr R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam. 
What happened
Mr R was interested in investing on the stock exchange and came across Plusoption 
alongside some other investment companies. He thought it was a safe form of investing and 
the reviews he read were all positive. He was to be given training and was given a tutor who 
showed him how to use the platform. He started with a small investment of £250, with further 
larger investments made. He was reassured that his bank didnt intervene in the payments, 
making him surer the platform was safe and treated by his bank as a reliable company. 
The transactions below were all made from Mr Rs current account, to Plusoption using his 
debit card:
Date Amount
25 September 2017 £250
27 September 2017 £500
9 October 2017 £1,500
9 October 2017 £2,500
10 October 2017 £250
11 October 2017 £1,000
16 October 2017 £2,500
28 November 2017 £1,500
28 November 2017 £2,500
Total £12,500
In March 2019, Mr R received a message from Plusoption notifying him the company was 
closing down. He attempted to contact it to withdraw his money but didnt receive any 
response. He has since discovered it wasnt regulated and believes the trading account was 
a simulation. Mr R raised a chargeback claim with HSBC. HSBC said the chargeback claim 
had been raised out of time. 
Ultimately, one of our investigators concluded that all the payments to Plusoption ought to 
have been blocked, as by the time they were made there was a warning about the trader on 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) alert portal, that it had 
been trading in a jurisdiction without a license. She concluded HSBC ought to have 
intervened and had it done so, she was satisfied the scam would have unravelled. She didnt 
find Mr R should bear any responsibility for the position he found himself in. She asked 
HSBC to reimburse all of the transactions to Plusoption and add 8% simple interest. 
HSBC disagreed. In summary, it said:
It doesnt appear Mr R carried out any research, which it considers to be careless. 
The payments themselves werent unusual for the account. And there were other 
earlier payments to cryptocurrency providers. 
It considers the position in relation to information held on the IOSCO warning list to 
be retrospective regulation by this office. And in any event, it doesnt consider that 
Mr R would have taken notice of a warning about Plusoption not being authorised in 
another jurisdiction. It doesnt consider this amounted to good industry practice then 
or now. 
The investigator hasnt set out what law, regulatory rules, code of practice, guidance, 
and good industry practice they have considered and so its difficult for it to 
understand where the duty to carry out due diligence by contacting Mr R arose.
In its experience attempts to block merchants is circumvented by the merchant 
changing the merchant or acquirer codes.
Mr R was investing in other cryptocurrency, and it doesnt accept that any warning it 
might have provided would have stopped him investing.
It doesnt believe the investigator has properly considered contributory negligence. 
It doesnt believe 8% simple interest is appropriate rather than the account interest 
rate. 
The matter was referred to me for review and determination. I noted the other investments 
Mr R had made to other trading platforms and cryptocurrency providers and asked for further 
information. Mr R has told us he was interested in investing on the stock exchange and 
investing into Etoro and Bitbay were all part of that. He further explained that he was using 
Plusoption to learn how to trade, with the aim being to invest further with Bitbay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute authorised payments without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even where they have been duped 
into making that payment, for example as part of an investment scam. There is no dispute 
here that Mr R authorised the payments. 
Banks and other payment services providers have duties to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering. But they dont have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice. And Im mindful the regulator has confirmed that 
providing a fraud warning to a customer, doesnt amount to investment advice. The first 
question I need to consider is whether this trader was actually a fraudster. 
The investigator has already set out the reasons for finding that Plusoption wasnt a 
legitimate trader. I agree with those reasons, in summary they were:Plusoption wasnt regulated by the UKs Gambling Commission when it ought to have 
been. 
A warning about Plusoption was published by IOSCO on 11 May 2017. This noted 
that it has been operating in another jurisdiction without being licensed to do so. The 
FCA also later published its own warning in May 2018, that Plusoption was operating 
in the UK without authorisation. 
There are reports in the public domain about Plusoption being scammers.
So I need to consider whether:
HSBC ought to have intervened in any of the payments? 
Whether intervention would have made a difference?
Whether Mr R was partly to blame or what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately? 
HSBC is aware of our general approach to is safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers. As well as decisions being published on our website setting out these 
principles and which quote the relevant rules and regulations, HSBC itself has also had a 
number of decisions setting out our position. 
We are required, and as provided for in the DISP Rules, to take into account rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to be good industry practice, as 
well as the law, when reaching a decision. And were tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances of the complaint. In doing so, were satisfied 
our approach isnt inconsistent with the law. 
All of Mr Rs payments that are in dispute went directly to Plusoption. The first payment was 
sent in September 2017. By that time, there had been a warning on the IOSCO investor 
alerts portal, that Plusoption had been operating in a jurisdiction without being licensed, for 
four months. I accept, as mentioned by the investigator, that it doesnt necessarily follow that 
these were fraudsters. But nevertheless, Im satisfied its not unreasonable to expect an 
international bank to update watchlist to includes businesses  payees  that have carried 
out regulated activities without being licensed. Afterall, a legitimate business carrying out 
regulated activities would usually submit itself to regulation. But this warning actually went 
further. The jurisdiction that posted the alert not only said Plusoption was operating without 
being licensed but that it could also be involved in a scam. I consider that to highly pertinent 
to the updating of any watch list. 
HSBC has said that blocking payments is ineffective as merchants circumvent this by 
changing the merchant/acquirer code. But HSBC hasnt provided any evidence that is what 
happened here - that it had a watchlist that Plusoption had circumvented in the way 
described. And the approach for the watchlist is based on the name of the merchant rather 
than any merchant code. The name here appeared on Mr Rs statements in the same way 
as the warning. I therefore dont find this argument persuasive.   
As the payments from September 2017 were four months after the warning was published, 
Im satisfied HSBC had sufficient opportunity to update its watchlist, and so I think it should 
have automatically blocked the first payment to Plusoption. Had it done so, and asked 
appropriate probing questions, I think the scam would have come to light. Had HSBC 
brought to light that Plusoption had been operating without a license and suggested that Mr 
R carry out more research, Im satisfied he would have paused and taken that action. And he 
could have been advised to check if it was regulated with the Gambling Commission, as it 
ought to have been. I have taken into account that Mr R was already investing on platforms 
and into cryptocurrency, but Im not persuaded that means he would have ignored a warning from his trusted bank. Those investments were all part of his decision to invest in the stock 
exchange  which payments to Plusoption were part of. Im satisfied that finding out it had 
been operating without a license in another jurisdiction, and without being regulated by the 
Gambling Commission in the UK, is enough to have stopped Mr R in his tracks, therefore 
preventing any of those losses, amounting to £12,500. 
HSBC has argued this approach amounts to retrospective regulation. I disagree. The paper 
referred to by the investigator, published in 2012, set out that the then regulator said it was 
good industry practice for businesses to have updated watch lists of potential perpetrators 
and types of scam. So having a watch list of this type has been considered good industry 
practice for many years now  and thats something Im required to take account of in 
reaching my decision. Furthermore, the IOSCO portal was suggested as a source of 
information in relation to putting together a watch list, so it was clearly the intention that 
international information was also supposed to contribute to that. Im satisfied that updating a 
watch list within one month of a published warning is reasonable  in the event, here the 
payments were made four months later, plenty of time for any watch list to be updated. 
I have thought carefully about whether Mr R is partly to blame for what happened. And 
having done so, Im not persuaded he is. As I have mentioned above, I accept Mr R was 
investing into other high-risk areas. But it doesnt follow that he was necessarily aware, or 
ought to have been aware, that he might have been investing into a scam. And although a 
bank might be knowledgeable about checking for regulation etc, I dont believe the same 
could be said for a layperson. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr R should share the blame for 
what happened and so I wont be reducing any compensation accordingly. 
HSBC has argued that Mr Rs account remain in credit throughout the period payments were 
made. So he didnt borrow to fund them, and they didnt cause him to incur interest and 
charges. It says there is no explanation as to why 8% interest is awarded rather than the 
account rate; Courts are routinely recognising the sustained period of low interest and 
awarding interest on judgments at rates below 8%. 
I do understand the point the bank is making. The 8% interest isnt there to replace interest 
Mr R might have earnt had the money stayed in his account, but for the loss of use of his 
money. It has been our approach for many years to add 8% simple interest on loss in these 
types of situation and I see no reason to depart from that here. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank to pay Mr R:
£12,500, being the amount of loss suffered as a result of the payments to Plusoption; 
and 
Add 8% simple interest per year to that sum from the date of the payments to the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman