DRN-2955009
The complaint
Miss F complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss F was given two loans by Oakbrook in March and September 2020. The first loan was 
for £700 that Miss F agreed to repay in 12 monthly instalments. Miss F repaid the loan early, 
in August 2020. The following month Miss F took a new loan for £1,500 that she agreed to 
repay in 18 monthly instalments. A balance remained outstanding on that loan when Miss F 
made her complaint.
Miss Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks Oakbrook had done before agreeing each loan had been proportionate. And she 
thought that the results of those checks were such that it was reasonable for the lender to 
conclude that Miss F would be able to repay her borrowing in a sustainable manner. So she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss F didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Miss Fs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Oakbrook gave these loans to Miss F required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss F. 
In practice this meant that Oakbrook had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Miss F undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Oakbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Miss F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Oakbrook did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Miss F.
Oakbrook gathered some information from Miss F before it agreed each loan. It asked 
Miss F for details of her income, and then used some industry statistical data to estimate her 
normal expenditure. And it checked Miss Fs credit file to assess how much she was paying 
to other creditors and how she had managed credit in the past.
Miss F was entering into significant commitments with Oakbrook. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for periods of 12 and 18 months. So I think it was right that Oakbrook 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Fs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive described 
above were sufficient for Oakbrook to achieve that aim  I think the checks Oakbrook did 
before agreeing each loan were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of Oakbrooks checks to see whether it made fair lending decisions.
I think I should first reflect on Oakbrooks decision to estimate Miss Fs expenditure using 
industry statistical data. It is clear that it would be better if a lender were able to obtain an 
accurate and specific reflection of a consumers expenditure. But that is not always possible 
 often consumers might underestimate their expenditure, either deliberately or 
inadvertently, or some figures might be unavailable. So the regulator accepts that at times 
the use of statistical data might be acceptable.
But the regulator goes on to say that estimating expenditure in this way is only appropriate if 
the lender believes the consumer generally fits the normal profile. Here Miss F told 
Oakbrook that she was living with her parents. So I think it would be reasonable for the 
lender to have assessed that it was likely that Miss F didnt pay many of the normal costs of 
owning or renting a property. And so it was likely that any estimate it made of Miss Fs 
expenditure was likely to be greater than the true amount. I therefore think it was reasonable 
for Oakbrook to use the disposable income it assessed for Miss F at the time of each loan.
The disposable income that Oakbrook calculated took into account the credit expenditure 
that was shown on Miss Fs credit file. I appreciate that Miss F says that wasnt a full representation of her liabilities. But I think it was reasonable for Oakbrook to rely on the 
information it received from its credit check. And as Miss F didnt tell the lender that some 
items were missing from the check I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Oakbrook 
responsible for any omissions.
At the time of the first loan Oakbrook calculated that Miss F had more than enough 
disposable income to safely afford her repayments. The credit check did show that Miss F 
had faced some problems with her finances around two years before. But in more recent 
times Miss F had managed credit well, and her credit file suggested that she wasnt 
over-reliant on borrowing. So I dont think it was wrong for Oakbrook to give the first loan to 
Miss F.
As I said earlier, Miss F repaid the first loan around seven months early. And then she asked 
to borrow again around a month later. Oakbrook might have taken some comfort from Miss F 
repaying her first loan without any apparent problems. But that would have been mitigated 
by concerns that Miss F had asked to borrow a larger amount just a month later. So I think 
Oakbrook needed to continue to take care when assessing whether Miss F could afford to 
repay the new loan in a sustainable manner.
As before Oakbrook calculated that Miss F had more than enough disposable income to 
safely afford her repayments, even taking into account a new loan that shed taken just a few 
weeks early. It appears that this loan was used to consolidate her first loan and some other 
short-term borrowing. So this new loan would increase Miss Fs indebtedness further. But, 
other than the new loan and a hire purchase agreement, the credit check showed little else 
in the way of borrowing. So I dont think, given the levels of disposable income that 
Oakbrook calculated Miss F had available, it was wrong for the lender to give her this loan 
either.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss F and that she says her financial 
situation was far worse than Ive described above. But that wasnt something she told 
Oakbrook when she applied for the loans. And nor was it something that I think Oakbrook 
should have seen from what I consider to be proportionate checks. So I dont think Oakbrook 
was wrong to give Miss F these loans and so I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman