DRN-3775582
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the amount Great Lakes Insurance SE offered him when he says he
couldnt use his travel insurance policy.
All reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
Mr D bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes (the
policy). He also purchased add-ons to the policy - gadget cover, terrorism cancellation
cover and connecting flight cover. The policy started on 5 January 2020. It was due to end 
on 4 January 2021.
The base price for the policy including medical premium was £255.82. The premium for the
add-ons totalled £59.11. Mr D paid insurance premium tax (charged at 20%) totalling £62.98
and received a discount of £19.54. So, in total, he paid £358.37 for the policy.
Mr D called Great Lakes in December 2020 to enquire whether the policy auto-renewed.
When he was told that it doesnt, he asked whether  due to not being able to travel because
of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic  the policy could be extended by three to six
months. He was told this wasnt possible.
Mr D subsequently complained to Great Lakes. In reply, Great Lakes offered Mr D:
- the opportunity to receive a pro rata voucher towards buying a new 15-month annual 
policy for the price 12, at current market rates, for a limited time; or
- the opportunity to receive a pro rata voucher towards buying a deferred annual 
policy, at the current market rates. You can then choose to start the cover at any time 
within 12 months of purchasing the policy, for a limited time.
Great Lakes calculated the credit voucher to total around £4 - backdated to 8 December
2020. Although, Mr D didnt cancel the policy during the policy year, Great Lakes took the
date of the call in December 2020 to be a notional cancellation date.
Mr D didnt think any of the options presented by Great Lakes were fair. Unhappy, he
complained to our service. Ultimately, our investigator partially upheld Mr Ds complaint. She
recommended Great Lakes pay  in the form of a voucher - a pro-rata refund of the premium
paid for the policy from 8 December 2020. She also explained that the seller of the policy
had offered to make a cash refund in the sum of £26.91 in respect of the premium paid for
the add-ons.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. So, his complaint was passed to me to look at
everything afresh to decide.
I asked Great Lakes to provide further calculations as I didnt think its calculations were
correct. Great Lakes has now calculated the voucher to be around £55 (which includes a full
refund of the connecting flight cover, which is also underwritten by Great Lakes).
The seller of the policy also offered the monetary sum of £26.91 in respect of terrorism
cancellation cover and gadget cover, both underwritten by different insurance providers. 
Great Lakes isnt responsible for any refund on premiums paid for these two add-ons. So, I 
said, if Mr D wished to accept this offer, it was open for him to do so and our service would 
tell the seller of the policy to send the payment directly to him. Mr D has since said he would 
accept that offer from the seller of the policy and our service has let them know that.
I issued my provisional decision in September 2022 focussing on the elements of the policy 
underwritten by Great Lakes explaining why I was intending to partially uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. An extract of which is set out below:

In her view dated October 2021, our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations
and law. I agree those are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific
circumstances of this case.
Is Mr D entitled to a refund of the premium paid for the policy?
The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mr Ds cancellation rights under the contract.
These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement under
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer a full refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more than
14 days after payment of the premium, no premium will be refunded except in exceptional
circumstances. But I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to exercise the discretion
it has, under the terms of the policy, in the circumstances of this case, to refund the premium
Mr D paid for the policy. Im not persuaded that the Covid-19 global pandemic amounts to
exceptional circumstances akin to two examples in the policy term referred to above. And I
dont think the impact of the global pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes
policyholders, is one which this term is intended to cover.
But Im conscious that Mr Ds need for the policy changed due to circumstances outside of
his control. So, Ive considered whether it would still be fair and reasonable to ask Great
Lakes to depart from industry rules and the policy terms in the circumstances of this case 
particularly given the exceptional, extraordinary and unexpected circumstances surrounding
the pandemic.
Covid-19  and its global impact - couldnt have been anticipated and foreseen. And whilst it
was outside of the control of Mr D, it was also outside of the control of Great Lakes. Further,
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr Ds contract with Great Lakes to be performed  orfor him to have benefitted from the policy.
Cover under the policy started on 5 January 2020 and Mr D was insured from that date, for
the duration of the policy, for trips worldwide lasting up to 50 days at a time. Mr D didnt
cancel the policy but Great Lakes has used the date of a call he made to question the
fairness of not being able to extend the end date of the policy (8 December 2020), as the
calculation date to make a pro-rata premium refund.
I know Mr D says he contacted Great Lakes much earlier than this. But Mr D has been
unable to provide any further evidence any earlier calls and Ive seen evidence that Great
Lakes has searched its telephone records systems for Mr Ds number, and it hasnt been
able to locate any other calls. Further, Mr D makes no reference to any earlier calls or
contact during the call on 8 December 2020  which Ive listened to. So, on balance, Im
satisfied that the first time Mr D spoke to Great Lakes about the policy after it had started
was then.
Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of
knowing how many trips Mr D had taken or how many had been booked (unless Mr D had
made a claim under the policy, which he didnt). There may have been many trips booked or,
as it transpires in Mr Ds case, only the one hed booked and went on in January 2020 for
over a week.
Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force including
Mr Ds trip in January 2020. Great Lakes was on risk for any claim that may have arisen
should that trip have been cancelled between the policy start date and date he was meant
go on holiday. And for any claim he might have needed to make because of an insured
event occurring whilst away  for example if he required urgent medical care or needed to be
repatriated back to the UK.
The price set by Great Lakes for the policy also covered Mr D for cancellation of any other
holidays which hed booked and was due to take during the period of cover. And Great
Lakes covered the risk of Mr D making any successful claims during that same period.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear the risk
concerned  for however short amount of time  the premium paid is not returnable. So,
regardless of what Mr Ds cancellation rights were, I dont think its unfair for Great Lakes to
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. Particularly when the policy wasnt
cancelled.
However, had the policy been cancelled on 8 December 2020  which was offered to Mr D
during that call - Great Lakes would no longer have incurred any risk of any claim going
forwards. I understand Mr D had no other trips booked at the time. And based on the unique
and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, I think, it was fair
and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer Mr D a pro-rata refund of the premium hed paid for
the policy from 8 December 2020 up the policy end date; 4 January 2021.
When provisionally making this decision, Ive taken into account that Great Lakes did amend
policies issued on, or after, 16 March 2020 for covered trips commencing on or after 17 July
2020  as reflected by the amended policy booklet provided to our service. However, as Mr
Ds policy was issued before 16 March 2020, I dont think these changes applied to him.
Ive also thought about what Mr D says about receiving an amended schedule of insurance
from Great Lakes which contained important information about Covid-19. This confirms that
any claims arising from any Coronavirus including Covid-19 wont be covered. But it also
says such exclusion didnt apply to claims under emergency medical and repatriationexpenses  or claims arising from any epidemic or pandemic as declared by the World
Health Organisation. So, I think the policy was still capable of benefitting Mr D in the
circumstances of this particular case. And if he wanted the policy cancelled, he couldve
contacted Great Lakes before December 2020 to do so. But for reasons set out above, I
dont think he did.
So, just because he might have thought it more unlikely that he might travel after mid-March
2020, for all the reasons set out above, I dont think was incapable of benefiting him.
Was it fair and reasonable to offer a credit voucher instead of a refund?
When considering whether Great Lakes shouldve offered a pro-rata monetary refund of the
premium or by way of credit, Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable to both
parties.
Mr D entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium, in return for Great Lakes
acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy during the period of cover.
Offering a refund by way of a credit means the risk Great Lakes had agreed to accept is
simply moved to a future date. Overall, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly by declining
to offer a pro-rata monetary refund to Mr D by using a notional cancellation date of 8
December 2020  rather than an earlier date as suggested by Mr D.
So, I think Great Lakes offer to issue a voucher is fair in the circumstances of this case
because the terms of the voucher arent unreasonably restrictive. The voucher is valid for 36
months and can also be used to buy a single trip or annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy.
And if Mr D chose not to buy a policy with Great Lakes again, the voucher is also fully
transferrable. So, if it isnt used by him, it can be used by someone else  if he chose to gift
the voucher to a friend or family member, for example.
The calculation of the credit
When calculating the policy premium Great Lakes doesnt distinguish between pre-travel
cancellation and post-departure cover. Rather, the premium charged is split equally across
the whole period of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates policy premiums, considering
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims
arising and its own commercial interests. Thats if it treats each customer fairly when doing
so. Given Great Lakes explanation, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the
prevalence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies.
Im also satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr D unfairly, or any differently, to other
customers in similar circumstances by calculating the premium in this way. The credit
amount offered by Great Lakes  using 8 December 2020 as a notional cancellation date -
was calculated based on Mr Ds unused period of standard travel insurance cover from that
date to the end of the policy.
The policy was intended to cover Mr D for around 366 days  and the premium he paid for
the policy was representative of the period cover was in place for. The value of the credit
which Great Lakes has now offered is equivalent to 28 unused days of cover from 8
December 2020 to the end of the policy. This sum also includes a full refund  in the form of
a voucher  for the premium paid for connecting flight cover.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. Great Lakes didnt make any 
substantive comments on my provisional findings but did provide further calculations. 
As Ive said, Mr D said he wished to accept the monetary offer made by the seller of the 
policy of £26.91 to refund the premiums paid for the terrorism and gadget insurance add-
ons, underwritten by different insurers. And our investigator has already notified the seller of 
the policy of that.
Mr D also said:
- He didnt like my inference that hes lying about contacting Great Lakes earlier than 8 
December 2020. He said its not possible for him to provide any further evidence of 
these calls as the number isnt recorded on itemised bills. 
- He was never presented with refund options when he contacted Great Lakes in 2020;
- Hes unhappy with my provisional findings about the changes made to the policy in 
March 2020 and that I had not read correspondence hed sent to our service;
- Its not enough that he might be capable of deriving some limited benefit from the 
policy; the premium was costly and cover for the most prevalent condition during the 
period of cover was removed;
- He should be given a monetary refund of the premium not a voucher;
- Its absurd for me to suggest he could gift the voucher to friends and family. Its 
outside the scope of our service to make assumptions about his social situation;
- Covid-19 was an exceptional and unexpected event but the whole point of insurance 
is to protect against the unexpected. 
-
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes Mr Ds further points which Ive summarised above. Having done so, I partially 
uphold his complaint for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision  an extract of 
which is set out above and forms part of my final decision. 
I know Mr D feels that Ive inferred that hes lied about calling Great Lakes before December 
2020. Thats not my intention. Its possible that he did make those calls. However, on the 
balance of probabilities theres not enough evidence to show that he did. He cant provide 
any further evidence of the calls and Great Lakes has shown that no other calls were made 
from his number before then. Further, he made no reference to earlier calls during the call 
dated 8 December 2020.
I can also assure Mr D that Ive read all of his correspondence about changes to the policy in 
March 2020. But for reasons set out in my provisional decision, I still dont think that means it 
would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to give him a bigger refund of the premium he 
paid for the policy. 
Ive set out in some detail in my provisional decision why I think its fair and reasonable for 
Great Lakes to offer a proportionate refund of the premium from 8 December 2020 in the 
form of a voucher rather than a monetary refund. I know Mr D disagrees, but his further 
comments havent changed my mind. I also appreciate that hes unhappy that Ive said that 
he could gift the voucher to family or friends if he doesnt want to use it. I wasnt making 
assumptions about his social situation but because the voucher is transferrable to somebody 
else is one of the reasons why I dont think the terms of the voucher are unreasonably 
restrictive in this case. Putting things right
Within 28 days from our service confirming to Great Lakes that Mr D accepts my final
decision, I direct Great Lakes to calculate the value of Mr Ds voucher on the following basis:
- A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the policy from 8 December 2020. Great 
Lakes should calculate the refund by dividing the actual base price paid for the policy 
by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
- A full refund of the premium paid for the connecting flight cover as it has offered to 
do.
Alternatively, if Great Lakes has already issued Mr D with a voucher it initially offered him
after first complaining to Great Lakes, I direct it to issue him with a further voucher for the
difference between the value of that voucher and the recalculated amount.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ds complaint. And I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman