DRN-3321065
The complaint
Ms T complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against her private 
medical insurance policy.  
Ms T also complained in her capacity as group secretary about the sale of the policy. That 
complaint is being dealt with separately. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms T was a member of a group private medical insurance policy 
for several years. The membership relevant to this complaint began in October 2020.
In November 2020, Ms T contacted BUPA about a claim for outpatient treatment. BUPA 
authorised that claim. Ms T paid the excess of £500. Ms Ts membership has an 
outpatient limit of £250. 
Ms T says that when she paid the £500 excess due under the policy she expected BUPA 
to pay the next £250 but it didnt do so. She doesnt think its fair that the outpatient limit 
is eroded by the excess. Ms T wants BUPA to cover the full cost of her treatment.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that BUPA had handled 
Ms Ts claim correctly and in line with the terms of her membership. 
Ms T didnt agree with the investigator. She said that BUPA shouldnt be permitted to say 
that theres outpatient cover when its possible that the excess due under the policy 
exceeds the outpatient limit. Ms T said that BUPA should show the outpatient cover, less 
the excess so that its clear that theres no contribution to outpatient costs from BUPA. 
She said that this is important as theres a trend for more illnesses to be treated on an 
outpatient basis. 
Ms T asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant membership terms 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Ms Ts membership, the relevant parts of 
which say as follows: 
 
Exclusion 4 Benefits that are not covered and/or are above your benefit limits
We do not pay for any treatment, services or charges that are not covered under your 
benefits. We also do not pay for any treatment costs in excess of the amounts for which 
you are covered under your benefits.
El How an excess or co-insurance works
Having an excess or co-insurance means that you have to pay part of any eligible 
treatment costs that would otherwise be paid by us up to the amount of your excess or co-
insurance. By eligible treatment costs we mean costs that would have been payable under 
your benefits if you had not had an excess or co-insurance.
If your excess or co-insurance applies each year it starts at the beginning of each year even 
if your treatment is ongoing. []
You should always make a claim for eligible treatment costs even if we will not pay the 
claim because of your excess or co-insurance. Otherwise the amount will not be counted 
towards your excess or co-insurance and you may lose out should you need to claim 
again.
E2 How the excess or co-insurance applies to your benefits
Unless we say otherwise on your membership certificate
we apply the excess or co-insurance to your claims in the order in which we 
process those claims
when you claim for eligible treatment costs under a benefit that has a benefit limit 
your excess or co-insurance amount will count towards your total benefit limit for 
that benefit
[]
Excess and co-insurance examples
The following are examples only You should check your membership certificate to see how  
your excess or co-insurance applies to you and your benefits.
Example of how an annual fixed excess works: this is an example only and assumes that
all costs are eligible treatment costs and
an excess of 50 a year
an out-patient benefit limit of 500 a year.
Example Excess
Out-patient benefit limit for the year £500
You incur costs for out-patient physiotherapy £250
We pay your therapist £200
We notify you of excess amount you pay direct to your therapist £50
Your remaining out-patient benefit limit for the rest of the year £250
Your remaining excess for the rest of the year £0
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding   
Ms Ts complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:
BUPA is obliged to pay for treatment, services or charges covered under Ms Ts  
benefits up to the benefit limits. Ms Ts membership certificate shows the levels of 
cover. Her cover for out-patient consultations, therapies and diagnostic tests is up to 
£250 in each policy year. It also shows that the excess due under the policy is £500. The membership certificate says that it must be read alongside the membership 
guide. 
The membership guide  - the relevant part of which Ive set out above  provides that 
Ms T has to pay for any eligible treatment costs that would otherwise be paid by 
BUPA, up to the amount of her excess. 
This was Ms Ts first claim in the relevant policy year. So, BUPA acted correctly in 
looking to Ms T to pay the excess. BUPA dealt with Ms Ts claim in accordance with 
the terms of her membership. 
There are circumstances in which BUPA would pay for outpatient costs up to the 
membership limit. If Ms T had made a previous claim or claims in the policy year and 
already paid the excess due under the policy, BUPA would have settled her claim for 
out-patient costs, subject to the policy limit. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms T but I dont think that BUPA treated her unfairly or unreasonably 
in this case. For these reasons, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman