DRN-2912746
The complaint
Miss S complains that Domestic and General Insurance Plc (D&G) sold her two insurance 
policies for the same TV.   
What happened
Miss Ss 43inch TV had a fault, so she claimed on her policy, During the claim Miss S was 
told she had two policies covering the same TV. Because of this one policy was cancelled 
and she asked for a refund of the premiums. D&G cancelled the policy but said it was 
actually for her 55inch TV, so said it wouldnt refund the premiums as it wasnt a duplicate. 
Miss S wasnt happy with this and complained. 
D&G looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the policies werent mis-sold but 
hadnt been set up correctly. It said one was for Miss Ss 55inch TV and the other was for 
her 43inch TV. D&G said her plan for her 55inch TV had therefore been cancelled 
incorrectly. D&G offered to sell Miss S a new plan for her 55inch TV and said it would either 
match the cost she was paying previously or refund her the premiums paid. Miss S didnt 
think this was good enough and referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found 
D&G had given Miss S incorrect information during her claim and hadnt set up the plan for 
her 55inch TV correctly. Because of this she thought D&Gs offer was fair but also 
recommended D&G pay Miss S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
D&G accepted our investigators recommendations, but Miss S didnt think it was enough to 
put things right. She asked for D&G to pay her £200 compensation as well as refund the 
premiums paid for her 55inch TV.  
D&G didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D&G didnt agree Miss Ss policy had been mis-sold but has offered to refund the premiums 
shes paid already. As there hasnt been a claim on this policy this is the same remedy I 
would award if I thought the policy had been mis-sold. I therefore see no reason to look into 
the sale further here. 
D&G has also agreed it looked like there was a duplicate, as the policy hadnt been set up 
correctly. Ive therefore looked at whether our investigators recommendation on how to put 
things right is fair and reasonable. And Im persuaded they are. 
I say this because Miss S has had the unnecessary distress and inconvenience of having to 
cancel her policy, when she didnt need too. Shes also had to spend time on the phone with 
D&G to sort out the problem and to try and put things right. Im therefore satisfied its fair and 
reasonable D&G compensate her for this. 
Ive considered Miss Ss points about £200 being a fairer amount of compensation but Im 
not persuaded it is. I understand the difficulties shes had in correcting the issue with D&G 
and that shes had the to raise a complaint to get it sorted. I would like to re-assure Miss S 
that Ive taken into account all the distress and inconvenience shes told us about when 
deciding a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. And looking at the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered as a whole, Im satisfied D&Gs offer to refund the policy 
premiums, along with £100 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. I require Domestic and General 
Insurance Plc to refund Miss S the premiums she paid for her cancelled policy, and to pay 
her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman