DRN-3877202
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc blocked a payment he needed to make and then took 
an unreasonable amount of time to unblock his account.
What happened
On 2 July 2022 Mr M was trying to purchase a vehicle. He tried to make a payment to the 
seller but it was flagged by Lloyds, and he was asked to call the bank before the payment 
could be made. 
Mr M contacted Lloyds to try and unblock the payment, and Lloyds suggested he should 
instead use PayPal to make the required payment. Mr M did so, under the impression this 
would give him additional protections, but that was incorrect, and using PayPal also lead to 
additional costs for the seller which Mr M had not expected, so he arranged for the payment 
to be reversed. 
Mr M continued to try to make the payment via Lloyds, but his online banking had been 
blocked, and he had to call again to resolve that issue. Ultimately, Mr M was able to make 
the payment on 5 July 2022, but the issues hed had, and the time he spent on the phone 
trying to resolve things, had caused him significant stress. 
Mr M raised several complaints with Lloyds about what had happened. It looked into things 
and agreed he had been provided with poor service, so it paid him £151 to recognise the 
impact of this.
Mr M remained unhappy, he felt that the level of distress hed experienced merited a higher 
award, so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, they agree that Mr M had been 
provided with poor service overall, and did not feel the compensation Lloyds had already 
paid was high enough. They recommended that Lloyds pay an additional £250 to Mr M.
Lloyds agreed with the Investigators findings, but Mr M felt that this still did not recognise 
how distressed he had been by what had happened, so he asked for his complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
Its evident from what Ive seen that Lloyds did make errors here. It wasnt unreasonable for 
it to carry out additional checks on the payment Mr M was trying to make  it was for a large 
amount and to a new payee  but once Mr M made contact with Lloyds I agree that the 
service he was given could have been better.
As Lloyds has noted, Mr M was given misleading advice about the benefits of using PayPal 
for the payment, his online access was blocked because data was not correctly updated by 
Lloyds, and the service he received when speaking to Lloyds on the phone was not up the 
standard expected. Mr M also spent a significant amount of time on the phone trying to 
resolve these issues.
I understand that Mr M was very distressed about this, hes explained how he was feeling at 
the time and Ive listened to the calls where he also told Lloyds how upset he was. So I 
agree that additional compensation on top of the £151 already paid is appropriate here, I do 
though consider that the amount recommended by our Investigator  an additional £250  is 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M feels a higher compensation award would be appropriate given the 
impact he feels these issues have had on him, but compensation can be subjective and what 
might feel reasonable or enough to one person might not be the same for another. Our 
awards also arent intended to be punitive or to punish the bank for what has happened. So 
based on what Ive seen I think the additional £250 Lloyds has now agreed to pay to him is 
fair and in line with what I would have recommended in the circumstances. 
I appreciate this may be very disappointing for Mr M, but I hope he at least now feels that is 
concerns have been listened to.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr M £250.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman