DRN-1905297
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc gave him unsuitable advice regarding his 
pension arrangements. Because of this he believes he has lost out.
This advice was considered as part of the industry-wide pension review and redress was 
paid in 1999 to Mr T. However, he feels that this hasnt adequately addressed the situation.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Bradford & Bingley accepted that the advice Mr T received may have been unsuitable and 
so went straight to calculating whether a loss had occurred. The intention was that the 
Pension Review would compensate Mrs T for the losses he would later experience when he 
came to retire. 
In order to determine what those losses might be, the regulator provided assumptions for 
firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. These assumptions attempted to predict 
future loss by determine things like future investment returns. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent in hindsight 
turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity 
rates have fallen. 
But I'm afraid this doesn't mean that Bradford & Bingley must redo the calculation. Under the 
terms of the Pensions Review, Bradford & Bingley was only required to conduct the review 
once, using the standards and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is 
because the assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time 
to assess the future loss. The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any 
pension mis-selling and would put things right at the time. Once a business carried out a 
pension review on a policy, they werent required to review it again. 
Businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and external quality checks. 
And its clear from the documentation at the time that the relevant information about Mr Ts 
pension arrangements was sought and considered. So, Im satisfied that the calculations are 
likely to be correct. At the time the assumptions were thought to be an accurate 
representation of the likely loss that occurred. Its only with hindsight that this has shown not 
to be the case.
Mr T has also questioned whether the redress being paid as a cash sum directly to him was 
fair.  Whilst I have to rely on documentation from decades ago and I accept this might not be 
the complete picture of what happened, I can see that the preferred method of reinstating Mr 
Ts benefits into his employers scheme was considered. But Bradford & Bingley were informed that this wasnt possible. So the next best option was an augmentation or adding 
the benefits to Mr Ts existing plan with it. I can also see at the time that Mr T had joined his 
employers scheme and so this plan had to be made paid up. So Mr T wouldnt be able to 
contribute to the existing personal pension any further. Presumably, this is why Bradford & 
Bingley decided to offer Mr T the option of a cash sum alongside the option to augment his 
existing policy. Whilst this isnt a specified method of paying redress under the Pension 
Review, Mr T chose the cash payment and signed in full and final settlement of the matter. 
Mr T could still have invested this money elsewhere. And had it instead been augmented 
back into the pension, he wouldve been taxed when taking his benefits. So there were 
advantages to having it paid as cash. So I dont think this was unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
As Mr T has pointed out, other providers offered different options in terms of when the loss 
would be assessed. And its possible these will provide better outcomes for their customers. 
But in the majority of cases it was considered most appropriate to settle the loss there and 
then under the Pension Review.
I do sympathise with Mr Ts situation that the compensation he received back in 1999, might 
not stack up with the benefits he wouldve received from his employers pension. But 
unfortunately this was a one-off exercise and Bradford & Bingley arent required to carry out 
a further review. Mr T accepted redress then, in full and final settlement and this was made 
clear at the time. So my decision is that Bradford & Bingley dont have to do anything further 
to put things right.
My decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20July2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman