DRN-3989324
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner) has caused delays in 
assessing her travel insurance claim.
Any references to Inter Partner includes all its representatives and agents.
What happened
Miss C took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which was underwritten 
by Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Miss C lost her luggage while on holiday. In line with her policy terms and conditions, 
Miss C purchased some items between 24 hours and 48 hours as her luggage had 
still not arrived. She then submitted a claim, along with the receipts of purchase, to 
Inter Partner in June 2022. 
Inter Partner requested some information in relation to the claim and this was sent by 
Miss C in August 2022. She made a complaint to Inter Partner. 
A final response was issued in October 2022 by Inter Partner which apologised for 
the delays in assessing the claim. It offered £100 compensation for the delays, and it 
said the claim would be assessed as a priority. Miss C brought her complaint to this 
service as she wasnt happy. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended the claim be assessed 
as a priority and also recommended a further £100 for the further delays caused as 
the claim hadnt yet been assessed. 
Miss C accepted the investigators findings and Inter Partner has not responded. The 
complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS).  ICOBS 8.1.1 says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they 
should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I note the claim was first submitted in June 2022. I note also Miss C didnt send the 
requested information to Inter Partner until August 2022 due to issues she had with 
her travel provider. But having looked at everything, the claim wasnt assessed by 
October 2022 when the final response was issued and, to date, its my understanding 
that it is yet to be assessed. 
Theres no evidence to suggest Inter Partner did what it said it would do in 
October 2022. Bearing in mind the initial complaint to Inter Partner was about the 
claim not being assessed within expected timescales, I agree with the investigators 
recommendation that a further £100 should be awarded to Miss C in addition to the 
£100 already offered by Inter Partner.  Miss C has suffered worry and upset since 
she submitted her claim to Inter Partner and I think a total compensation of £200 
should be paid to her. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I note Inter Partner also said in its final response it would treat the claim as a priority. 
My understanding is that this has yet not been assessed. I direct Inter Partner to now 
treat this as a priority also.
I confirm that the claim itself hasnt been considered here and if Miss C doesnt agree 
with the outcome of the claim once its been assessed, this would need to be raised 
as a separate complaint to Inter Partner in the first place. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it Miss C accepts our final decision, I direct 
Inter Partner to:
Assess Miss Cs claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy.
Pay Miss C £200 compensation for the worry and upset caused to her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance 
SA to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman