DRN-2593862
The complaint
Mr H complains that his queries havent been adequately addressed by The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited, referred to as Prudential. 
What happened
On 15 November 2019, Mr H received a letter from Prudential about how the charges and 
costs on his investment bond would be shown doing forward. 
On 26 November 2019, Mr H wrote back to Prudential raising a formal complaint about the 
letter. He said it was vague and inadequate, and also asked for all of the current and 
proposed charges and costs and fund disclosures relating to his existing policy. 
Prudential wrote back on 29 November 2019, detailing the costs and charges applicable to 
his policy and any futures costs and charges that might apply. It also included the following 
documents:
The Key Features Document.
Market Value Reduction  A clear explanation.
Your With Profits Plan  a guide to how we manage the fund. 
Mr H wrote Prudential again  on 6 December 2019 and 9 December 2019 with a list of 
additional questions and queries, including the following:
Would he be prevented from making withdrawals as and when he pleased?
Were there any concerns/issues regarding the current or future valuation of property 
or other assets held by M & G Securities Limited (M&G), held on his behalf?
Where there any matters, of any kind, relating to the M&G property fund, or any other 
fund, thats shouldve been brought to his attention as a customer?  
In respect of the funds that Mr H is invested in, what role is played by M&G or any 
other Authorised Corporate Director (ACD)? 
Prudential didnt address the issues as a complaint  but as a further request for information 
 so no referral was provided to our service. 
In a response (incorrectly) dated 19 December 2019, I note Prudential said:
As confirmed in our letter of 29 November 2019 you are currently invested in the Optimum
Return With Profits fund, which has no restrictions on any valid withdrawal requests.
I note you being a concerned customer, however, I can confirm that, currently, we do not
believe the situation regarding Prudential M&G Properly Portfolio Funds will impact any of 
our other funds.
Therefore, having no impact to your fund, nor are we required to bring this to your attention 
as your investment fund is not directly impacted by the Prudential M&G Property
Portfolio Funds nor the M&G Securities or any other ACD.
Mr H also complained to M&G some days later on 28 December 2019.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and initially thought it should be upheld 
on the basis that Prudentials letter of 19 December 2019 didnt adequately answer Mr Hs 
questions  but upon reflection she decided that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Shes generally satisfied that the information provided by Prudential was reasonable. 
It explained the relevant charges and costs, how these were applied and if theyre 
likely to change in future. 
Mr H notified the investigator after her initial view that hed raised a complaint about 
the further issues  against M&G  on 28 December 2019. 
Subsequently Prudential also confirmed that M&G had answered Mr Hs concerns in 
its letter of 20 January 2020, so there was no need for it to consider the issues 
further.  
So, upon reflection, shes satisfied that Mr Hs relevant questions and queries have 
been dealt with and adequately answered by Prudential.  
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes 
unhappy about what he calls the woeful mishandling of his complaint by both Prudential 
and the investigator. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators latest conclusions for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think the business has behaved 
unreasonably in responding to Mr Hs questions and queries. Im also satisfied that the 
information it provided was reasonable.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Hs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr H and Prudential, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than 
take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. On balance Im satisfied that the response from Prudential explained the relevant charges 
and costs, how they were likely to be applied to Mr Hs investment bond and if they were 
likely to change in future  in its response dated 29 November 2019  which are all the 
things that Mr H primarily wanted to know about. 
For example, I note Prudential explained the following:
For the sake of clarity, please find below a list of the current charges that apply, or may 
apply, to your investment based on its current status. These charges are not and never have 
been guaranteed (unclear) may go up or down depending on the performance of the 
Optimum Return With Profits fund which you are currently Invested in.
Any on-going charges or expenses are implicit, they are deducted from the investment fund
Itself and not directly from your policy or its value, in effect the expenses are taken before 
any growth (by way of bonuses) is applied to your policy.
It also said:
The current Annual Management Charge (AMC) applicable on the Optimum Return With 
Profits Fund Is 1.25% of the total value including any Terminal Bonus available'. The AMC is 
variable depending on the overall performance of the fund so may go up or down in the 
future.
There are further costs which are not included in the AMC. We cannot provide a clearer 
breakdown of these than what has already been included in your Annual Statement, nor are 
we obliged to by any legislation. Prudential's With Profits Funds have assets last valued at 
£104.3 billion, some of these assets include properties and utilities which will have additional 
costs for maintenance etc. These costs are deducted from the underlying fund itself and not 
from the value of your policy, presently these equate to 0.19 % which is again variable.
I note that Prudential also provided further information  in the form of key documents  for 
Mr Hs consideration which wouldve provided further detail and explanation to the response 
given. So, overall, Im satisfied that Prudential provided reasonable answers to Mr Hs 
questions and has done so in a reasonable amount of time. I dont think its necessary for 
me to go through the questions and answers which are generally self-explanatory. 
Also having dealt with Mr Hs other (separate) complaint against M&G, Im unable to say that 
Prudential has behaved unreasonably in this instance by not providing specific answers to 
his questions that M&G was probably better placed to answer. So, in this instance I dont 
blame Prudential for not answering questions specifically relating to M&G. 
That notwithstanding, I note Prudential has also confirmed that the ACD of any other fund 
held by Mr H with Prudential broadly plays a similar role to the role played by M&G as an 
ACD of the Managed Growth Fund. In other words, Prudential has confirmed that the role of 
ACD is broadly the same. 
In conclusion, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im 
unable to safely say that Prudential has done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mr H will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as
the investigator. But I cant say that Prudential has behaved unreasonably by not addressing 
Mr Hs concerns about M&G in its final response to him.  
I realise my decision isnt what Mr H wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im
unable to uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman