DRN-3731588
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited has treated her unfairly and charged her an 
unfairly high rate of interest on her mortgages.
What happened
Mrs M has two buy-to-let mortgages with Shawbrook, which she originally took out with Axis 
Bank UK Ltd. The mortgages were both on fixed interest rates until early 2021. After the 
fixed rate periods, the interest rates were intended to track the London Interbank Offered 
Rate (LIBOR) plus 4.5% for the remainder of the terms.
Mrs M is in arrears on both mortgages and says Shawbrook has done nothing to help her, 
putting its own profits first. She says market rents mean she is making a loss on both 
properties, and both are up for sale.
Shawbrook says it has tried to help Mrs M: it agreed six-month payment deferrals on both 
mortgages in 2020 in line with regulatory guidance put in place to help borrowers during the 
coronavirus pandemic, it suspended interest for a time, and it agreed concessionary 
payment arrangements.
At the start of 2022, Shawbrook changed the reference interest rate on Mrs Ms mortgages 
from LIBOR to the Shawbrook Base Rate (SBR). It had written to Mrs M in 2020 and 2021 
telling her about this forthcoming change, and explaining that SBR would typically be the 
same as Bank of England base rate.
Mrs M says Shawbrook should have stopped using LIBOR as the basis for her mortgage 
interest rates much earlier, in 2020, because LIBOR had been discredited and because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic and the difficulties that brought. She referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He concluded that Shawbrook 
had given Mrs M reasonable notice of changes to her mortgage interest rates and that it had 
acted in line with regulatory guidance in replacing LIBOR. He also considered that 
Shawbrook had given Mrs M reasonable forbearance in the circumstances. 
Mrs M didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. She still thought she had 
been treated unfairly and that Shawbrook should offer her the same terms as it does new 
customers, given its continued use of LIBOR until recently, and the impact of the pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill turn firstly to the interest rates on Mrs Ms mortgages. I dont find any basis on which to 
conclude that Shawbrook has charged interest unfairly or to say that it should backdate its 
SBR to March 2020. In fact, to backdate SBR in this way would result in Mrs M paying more, 
not less, interest. 
Mrs Ms mortgages were both on a fixed rate until early 2021. After that, the applicable rates 
were LIBOR +4.5%, then SBR +4.5% since January 2022. The fixed interest rates which Mrs 
M had been paying were lower than either of these variable rates.
Shawbrook did nothing wrong in using LIBOR as the reference rate for Mrs Ms mortgages 
once the fixed rates ended. That was in the contracts Mrs M signed up to when she took out 
the mortgages. Shawbrook then gave Mrs M reasonable notice that LIBOR would stop being 
published and so it needed to decide on a replacement. 
The replacement rate Shawbrook has decided on is its SBR, which it has said typically 
reflects Bank of England base rate, and SBR has been the same as Bank of England base 
rate so far. The regulator of financial services, the Financial Conduct Authority, has said 
Bank of England base rate is a fair replacement for mortgage lenders to switch to. I see no 
reason to take a different view in this case, and Mrs M has said she finds SBR acceptable. 
The interest rate margin Shawbrook has applied to Mrs Ms mortgages is the same as the 
one it had been applying before, as set out in her contracts, at 4.5%. While lower rates may 
have been available to new borrowers in recent years, I dont consider that means 
Shawbrook should have reduced the rates Mrs M was paying. It was open to Mrs M to apply 
for a new rate if that was what she wanted, either with Shawbrook or another lender  
although I recognise that the mortgage arrears are likely to have made that difficult. 
I was sorry to read about the difficulties Mrs M has had financially. But theres nothing in 
regulatory rules or guidance to say that Shawbrook must set the interest rates on her 
mortgages with reference to the amount of rent shes receiving and her costs. In fact, to do 
so would be most unusual. 
Shawbrook agreed six months of payment deferrals on Mrs Ms mortgages, in line with 
regulatory guidance as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. It also later suspended interest 
and agreed concessionary payment arrangements. I consider that Shawbrook took 
reasonable steps to try to support Mrs M in the circumstances.  
I recognise that Shawbrooks communication with Mrs M hasnt met her expectations. But I 
dont consider there were significant shortcomings here, and in all the circumstances I dont 
find any basis on which to make any order or award of compensation. I also see nothing 
wrong in Shawbrook taking on these mortgages from Axis  the transfer of mortgages isnt 
uncommon and I find nothing to suggest that it resulted in any contractual changes or 
detriment to Mrs M. 
I understand that Mrs M has tenants in both the mortgaged properties and both are still on 
the market. I would encourage her to keep Shawbrook up-to-date with her situation and that 
of the properties, and let it know of any proposals she has to repay the arrears.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Janet MillingtonOmbudsman