DRN-3651044
The complaint
G complains that TSB Bank plc caused it to miss out on a promised incentive payment for 
switching its bank account from another bank.  
What happened
In February 2021, G applied to transfer its account from its current bank (which I will refer to 
as the other bank) to TSB as part of an incentivised switching scheme being run by the 
other bank. 
TSB received and reviewed the application from G. Having done so, they contacted G on 3 
March 2021 to request that the application be amended as two controlling parties had been 
named instead of one.
On 14 May, G provided the amended application as per TSBs request. TSB then requested 
a document which could confirm the business address on 5 June. This was provided by G 
on 15 June.
 
TSB decided not to proceed with the application on 18 June, and they communicated this to 
G when it called them to discuss the matter on 22 June. It was during this call that G raised 
its complaint. 
TSB responded to the complaint on 7 July explaining that a business decision had been 
taken not to progress Gs application due to the volume of ISS applications TSB had 
outstanding on 18 June. They said they prioritised applications that had been completed 
sooner than Gs had.
G was unhappy with this response, so it referred its complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He thought TSB were unclear in their communications 
with G about the need to take urgent action to progress the application, so he asked TSB to 
pay £200 in compensation to G.
However, he didnt think TSB were responsible for the initial delay in processing the 
application and he said TSB were entitled to make a commercial decision about whether 
they wanted to proceed with any of the applications they received as part of the scheme. As 
such, he didnt conclude that TSB were responsible for G not receiving the incentive. 
G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint G but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained my reasons below.
The crux of this complaint is whether TSB is to blame for the failure to complete the switch in 
time for G to be eligible to receive the incentive payment. So, Id need to be persuaded that 
this was due to an error on TSBs behalf.
The scheme was open to applicants who applied to the participating banks before the end of 
February 2021. To be eligible to receive the cash incentive the account needed to be fully 
switched from the other bank with the other bank confirming they had closed the original 
account by 30 June 2021. 
G applied for the account quite close to the cut off for applications to be received, however, I 
can see that there was no delay in TSB contacting them to explain there was an issue with 
the application and that it needed to be amended for the application to be progressed. This 
email was sent to G on 3 March 2021; however, G says it didnt open the email as it thought 
it was spam. 
I dont agree that this is a good enough reason for G not opening the email or following up 
with TSB sooner. G couldve called TSB to confirm the email was from them especially as it 
had just applied to TSB to switch its account across to them. So, I dont think G shouldve 
found it that unusual to receive an email from TSB around this time. 
It took G more than 10 weeks to follow up with TSB at a time when the incentive scheme 
was approaching its end. When G did speak to TSB on 13 May it discovered the application 
needed to be amended as two controlling parties had been named instead of one. G 
amended the application the following day. At this stage, Gs application went into a queue 
which was being worked in date order by TSB.
Having reviewed the information on Gs application, TSB sent a further email to G on 5 June 
asking for documents proving its business address to be provided. G wouldve been aware 
that time was running out as both TSB and the other bank sent chaser emails to outstanding 
applicants around this time. Nevertheless, G didnt provide this evidence until 15 June which 
left very few business days for the account to be opened and the switch to be fully 
completed. 
On 18 June TSB made a commercial decision not to progress Gs application due to the 
volume of ISS applications they had outstanding. They said they prioritised applications that 
had been completed sooner than Gs had.
Ive considered whether I think this was fair. A full current account switch takes seven 
business days to complete and TSB wouldve required additional time to complete 
necessary checks before agreeing to open the new account. As such, I think it was 
reasonable for TSB to make a commercial decision to prioritise those whose applications 
were completed earliest and to reject those who were unlikely to be completed within the 
time limits of the scheme.
I know this will be disappointing for G, but it was responsible for the delays that led to the 
application being declined on this occasion. Having said that, I think TSB couldve been 
clearer about how soon they needed information returned to them, especially the information 
that was requested on 5 June. And it is for this reason that I agree with our investigator that 
TSB should pay £200 to G in recognition of this failure.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Gs complaint in part. I direct TSB Bank plc to 
pay £200 in compensation to G for their poor customer service.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman