DRN-2284919
The complaint
Mr S says George Banco Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr S took out a guarantor loan from George Banco in May 2018. It was for £3000 over 24 
months. The monthly repayment was £185.28 and the total repayable was £4446.72.
Mr S says George Banco lent irresponsibly as he had so much debt at the time of 
application, he was taking this loan just to repay others and he couldnt pay his essential 
bills. It led to him having to enter a debt management plan.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said George Bancos 
checks were not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr S.
George Banco didnt reply to the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me for 
a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when George Banco lent to Mr S. 
Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged George 
Banco to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, George Banco was required to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr S could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So George Banco had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr S. In other words, it wasnt enough for George Banco to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether George Banco did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr S, and have considered the following questions:
did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ss loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did George Banco make a fair lending decision?
did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
George Banco asked for some information from Mr S before it approved the loan. It asked 
for details of his income and his monthly living costs. It told us it checked his salary using a 
third-party income verification tool. It says it reviewed his credit file to understand his credit 
history and existing commitments. But the credit file it has supplied provides information up 
to November 2018 (some months after the date of the loan) so I am unsure when it carried 
out these checks. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. 
From these checks combined George Banco concluded Mr S had monthly disposable 
income of £130 and so the loan was affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mr S was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from George Banco. He was entering into a long-term 
commitment and would need to make monthly repayments for two years. So I would expect 
that George Banco would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed 
information about Mr Ss financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. As the 
investigator said, his credit file showed two of his credit cards were over limit. And in the two 
months prior to this loan application Mr S had not met his contractual monthly repayment on 
either card. So, in the round, I think it would have been proportionate for George Banco to 
independently check the actual state of Mr Ss finances before agreeing the loan, rather than 
relying primarily on his disclosures, as it seems it did for certain costs.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Mr Ss complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown George Banco and consider if it 
ought to have realised that Mr S most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Ss bank statements. This is one way George Banco could have 
gathered the information I think it needed on Mr Ss financial situation. 
Our investigator said the statements showed Mr S was reliant on his overdraft, incurring fees 
each month, so as he already had insufficient disposable income it didnt seem he would be 
able to sustainably repay this loan.Mr S was taking out its loan for the purpose of debt consolidation so I accept a number of his 
debts would be cleared and should not be taken into account as ongoing expenditure. But I 
can see from his bank statements that Mr S was using payday loans from at least five 
different providers in the months before this loan. But George Banco hasnt provided any 
evidence to show how it understood which of these loans would be repaid and at what cost. I 
cant see that it could make affair lending decision without knowing this.
In addition, Mr S was spending a significant proportion of his income on what seem to be 
gambling transactions in the months prior to this loan. So from this, combined with his 
reliance on payday loans, I think the lender ought to have realised Mr S was having 
problems managing his money and there was a high risk he would be unable to sustainably 
repay this loan. We can see this went on to be the case as Mr S continued to rely on payday 
loans (as the investigator pointed out he took out a further eight loans in the three months 
after he received this loan). And under CONC 5.3.1(G) George Banco had an obligation to 
check that Mr S could afford the loan without borrowing to repay or suffering other adverse 
financial consequences.
 
It follows had George Banco completed proportionate checks, I think it would have decided 
not to approve Mr Ss loan application. 
I have also looked at whether George Banco acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. I havent found any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr S to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and George Banco needs to put things right.
It should:
 
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr S made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ss loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then George Banco should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ss loan account results in there being an outstanding capital balance 
then George Banco should agree a repayment plan with Mr S, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically if he is having financial 
difficulties
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to deduct tax from this interest. George Banco 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ss complaint. George Banco must now put things right as set out above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman