DRN-3771447
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to refund over £14,000 
he lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr V says he fell victim to an investment scam in April 2022 after he was encouraged to 
invest in cryptocurrency by someone he met on social media. He made payments 
collectively totalling over £14,000 to crypto-platforms Moonpay and Coinmama, where the 
funds were subsequently transferred to the scammer who kept the funds. Barclays refused 
to refund the money Mr V had lost as it said he had authorised the payments. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the payments would have 
appeared particularly unusual when compared to Mr Vs previous account activity, so he 
didnt think Barclays ought to have intervened to question him about the payments. Mr V 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr V authorised the disputed payments he made to Moonpay 
and Coinmama using his Barclays debit card (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallets). The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Barclays, and 
the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Barclays should have done more to prevent Mr V 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that overall, Mr V has lost over £14,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over several separate smaller increments which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared with Mr Vs spending history, such that they ought to have been regarded 
as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
The payments were not of such an amount, for example, that it would represent a 
significant deviation from the way Mr Vs account was normally run. 
I also acknowledge there were occasions where more than one payment was made 
in the same day, such as three payments being made Moonpay on 19 April 2022, 
which can be indicative of fraud if this is out of character for the account in question. 
However, I can see from Mr Vs account statements that he has previously made 
multiple payments to the same payee in one day, with some of these being for large 
amounts. So, given he had a history of making multiple payments to the same payee, 
I dont think the three payments he made to Moonpay on 19 April 2022 would have 
appeared particularly unusual when compared with his spending history  particularly 
given Moonpay is a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform. 
So, having considered the payments Mr V made to the cryptocurrency exchange 
platforms as part of the scam, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought 
reasonably to have triggered Barclays fraud monitoring systems, or that would have 
indicated he was at risk of financial harm.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr V reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered 
via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. I can see that Barclays has raised a 
chargeback dispute, although its not clear what the outcome of this has been. 
However, in these circumstances, Mr V used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto-
exchange platforms before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer. So, its unlikely that any chargeback claim would be successful because 
the companies he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Barclays wouldve been under any 
obligation to do anything more with regards to recovering the funds in these 
circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr V, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman