DRN-2439187
The complaint
 Mr F complains that (BoS) declined a loan application having originally accepted it. 
What happened
 On 14 April 2019 Mr F applied online for a loan to buy a car. The application was accepted, 
but BoS say this was done in error. Having been accepted Mr F put down a deposit of £500 
on a car and was due to collect it later in the week. However, he saw the dealer had a less 
expensive car and he decided to buy that.
On 18 April Mr F contacted the bank and said he wasnt going to buy the original car, but he 
was hoping to buy another. On 19 April he tried to amend his online application, but this 
didnt work and he was advised to reapply. He says he was told there would be no problem, 
but his request for a loan was refused. By this point Mr F had sold his old car.
Mr F complained to BoS and it confirmed the refusal was correct, but it paid him £150 for 
any distress or inconvenience he had suffered. Mr F brought his complaint to this service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
Mr F said he had lost his deposit and had to hire a car. It also caused him stress and worry 
and he had been embarrassed by the situation. Our investigator sought further clarification 
of the events and BoS said that when Mr F decided to buy another car a new credit search 
was made and this threw up information which caused the application to be declined.
Our investigator didnt think BoS had done anything wrong and didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr F didnt agree and said that at no point was he told a new 
application was needed and his credit rating was good. He had no reason to expect to be 
refused having already been told his application had been approved.
I issued a provisional decision as follows: 
I said at the outset that the bank had the right to take a commercial decision as to whether it 
would grant a loan to Mr F and, in the circumstances, I could not interfere with that decision. 
However, I could consider how it handled the matter and whether it did so in a fair and 
reasonable manner. I appreciated Mr F has been a loyal customer of BoS of many years 
standing and he had been unable to identify any issues with his credit file. Nevertheless, the 
bank was entitled to reach the conclusion that it didnt wish to grant him a loan. 
That said, Mr F had a loan agreed and after decision to acquire a less expensive car he had 
the reasonable expectation that a reduction in his intended borrowing would be acceptable. 
He spoke to the bank on numerous occasions and kept it informed of his change of plans 
and what he was intending to do.
The bank had pointed out that its online tool advises customers that they shouldnt travel to 
obtain the new car until the loan has been confirmed. I listened to the many calls between Mr 
F and BoS and I could see that the call handlers were helpful, but at no point did they 
suggest that he wait until the new/amended loan be confirmed. I thought they too presumed 
the loan would proceed.
One of the key difficulties for Mr F was that he sold his old car in anticipation of acquiring the 
new one. He did so on 15 April before he told BoS he was intending to buy a less expensive 
car and so I didnt think the bank could be held responsible for that decision. However, I did 
think that it should have made it clearer that there was no guarantee that a reduced loan on 
different car would be granted. The bank has acknowledged this failing and offered Mr F 
£150 compensation. 
Having listened to the calls and I could see that Mr F was given the expectation that there 
would be no problem and so he proceeded on that basis. It caused him a degree of 
inconvenience and cost and I believed the compensation should be increased. He ended up 
without car during a bank holiday and I believe he had to cancel a planned trip and on top of 
this he had to hire a car. He did all of this in the reasonable expectation that he had been 
granted a loan and the bank did nothing, apart from the online reference, to warn him of the 
risks. Therefore, I considered the compensation should be £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has not responded to my provisional decision and the bank has accepted it, but asked 
that I make it clear in this decision that it has already paid £150. I am happy to do so. In the 
circumstances my provisional decision remains unchanged.
Putting things right
 The bank should compensate Mr F £500 in total. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold thus complaint and I direct Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
compensation of £350 in addition to the £150 already paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman