DRN-4371063
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy how Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) handled 
his request for help when he tried to make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
What happened
In August 2017, Mr M bought a used car from a dealership, who Ill refer to as P. He paid a 
deposit of £300 on his Tesco credit card and paid the outstanding balance in full on a debit 
card. The car was a year old and had covered 10,102 miles at the time it was bought. The 
total cash price of the car was £20,898.
In March 2018 the car broke down. Mr M called his roadside assistance company, and the 
car was recovered to a nearby garage. It was discovered that the clutch had failed. The car 
had covered approximately 13,000 miles in the seven months Mr M had owned it. Mr M paid 
£2,332.55 for a new clutch to be fitted using his Tesco credit card. 
It wasnt until January 2021 that Mr M got in touch with P to explain the problem hed 
experienced with the car. He had sold the car by this point. He asked P to cover the cost of 
the replacement clutch as he felt the issue would have been present or developing at the 
point the car was sold to him. He said he had noticed a peculiar smell from the car a month 
or so before it broke down, which he now attributed to the failing clutch. As part of his 
correspondence with P, Mr M also explained that he was now aware the car had previously 
been owned by a rental company, and he felt this had had an impact on the performance of 
the clutch and had led to it failing prematurely. P wouldnt cover the cost of the replacement 
clutch. They said it was a wear and tear component, that could be affected by driving style 
and Mr M hadnt been in contact with them about it since he bought the car. In relation to the 
previous owner of the car having been a rental company, P explained that Mr M was shown 
the V5 document prior to going ahead with the purchase of the car, and the V5 explained 
who the previous owner was. P told Mr M that, at that point, he had the opportunity to 
withdraw from the purchase. 
Unhappy with Ps response. Mr M approached Tesco in early 2022 asking them to raise a 
Section 75 (s75) claim, specifically in relation to the cost of the replacement clutch. Tesco 
told Mr M they wouldnt cover the cost of the replacement clutch. They said he had travelled 
over 13,000 miles in the car since owning it, and they considered the clutch to be a wear and 
tear component. They said that they couldnt see a breach of contract in this case and 
declined Mr Ms s75 claim. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said he didnt 
think there was enough evidence to conclude the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
Mr M bought it. He accepted Mr M had provided an invoice from the garage from when the 
clutch was replaced but said this didnt confirm the problem with the clutch had been there 
from the point of Mr Ms ownership. He said the smell hadnt been evidenced as coming from 
the clutch, and therefore didnt help to confirm if the clutch problem had been present or 
developing at the time Mr M bought the car. In relation to the previous ownership of the car, 
our investigator said he didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest a 
misrepresentation had taken place by P at the point of sale. 
Mr M didnt accept. He said he felt a car of this age and mileage shouldnt have needed a 
replacement clutch. He said he also felt the previous ownership was a pertinent factor, as 
the car could have been driven by many people in the year prior to him owning it, and they 
could have had scant regard for the maintenance and welfare of the car, including the clutch. 
He said the smell had been confirmed as a clutch problem to him by the roadside assistance 
company and the garage that replaced the clutch. He felt that evidenced the fault had been 
present within the first six months of his ownership.
As Mr M didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 
13 September 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M paid the deposit for his car on his Tesco credit card. S75 says that in certain 
circumstances, Tesco are jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
purchase agreement with P that the car must be of satisfactory quality. Under the principles 
of s75, Tesco can be held jointly liable for the quality of the car Mr M bought. Cars are of 
satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, 
taking into account factors such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car 
and the price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In Mr Ms case, the car was used and had covered approximately 10,000 
miles when he bought it. So, Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new 
car. Having said that, the cars condition should have met the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price. 
Ill start by looking at whether a misleading omission has occurred in relation to the previous 
ownership of the car, and whether Mr M should have been aware that the previous owner 
had been a rental company. Based on what Ive been provided with, Im more satisfied than 
not that Mr M had seen the cars V5 document prior to completing the purchase of it, and the 
V5 confirmed that the previous owner had been a rental company. It may be that Mr M didnt 
check the V5 or missed that information, as he has confirmed he only became aware when 
he received the amended V5 document back to confirm his ownership, but that doesnt lead 
me to conclude the cars previous ownership wasnt disclosed. The document did confirm 
one previous owner. So, I wont be asking Tesco to do anything regarding this. 
It seems to me that, rather than being unhappy that the previous owner of the car was a 
rental company, Mr M is more concerned about how the car could have been used, and by 
how many people, in the year prior to him purchasing it  and he believes this has led to the 
clutch failing prematurely. I accept Mr Ms point that any users of the car may have taken 
less care of it and been less concerned about how it was driven, but that is only speculation 
in this case. There isnt any conclusive evidence to show me that the previous ownership 
and use of the car led to the problems Mr M later experienced with the clutch. However, Im more persuaded than not that the clutch wouldnt have been abused sufficiently to lead to its 
premature failing when I consider the age of the car and the mileage it had completed while 
in the rental companys possession. So, that leads me to conclude that the previous 
ownership of the car isnt a reason why the clutch failed prematurely. 
The car was only two years old and had travelled just over 23,000 miles when the clutch 
failed. I can understand Mr Ms frustration with this, as the car was still relatively new. And 
Ive previously mentioned that the CRA includes durability as an indication of satisfactory 
quality. Mr M has said that he only really used the car to drive on the motorway and I think 
the evidence supports that. He had covered just over 13,000 miles in seven months from his 
ownership of the car before the clutch failed, which Im more satisfied than not suggests 
longer journeys were being taken more regularly. Some research online states an average 
lifespan of 60,000 miles for a clutch, although various factors dictate when such a part might 
fail and at what mileage. Whilst I understand Tescos argument that the clutch is a wear and 
tear component and that is why they believe it failed, Im more persuaded than not in this 
case, when I consider everything that has been provided, that the clutch failed due to its 
durability rather than due to wear and tear, and Im not satisfied this is the standard that a 
reasonable person would expect. So, it follows that Im minded to say the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was bought by Mr M, and he should now be reimbursed for the 
repair costs he incurred. 
Tesco may feel their position in this case has been prejudiced by the length of time it took 
Mr M to bring this to their attention and the fact that the car is no longer in Mr Ms 
possession. I understand that. However, Im not persuaded that this makes too much 
difference in this case. Mr M has said he still has the clutch, even though hes no longer the 
owner of the car, but Im not persuaded that an inspection of the clutch would enable a 
conclusion to be drawn as to what caused the failure and when. What I do have is the 
evidence from both sides, and that leads me to conclude Im not persuaded the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time Mr M bought it, for the reasons previously stated. 
To resolve this complaint, Im asking Tesco to reimburse Mr M for the repairs he paid to 
replace the clutch. To do this, they should rework his credit card account as though the 
amount had been refunded from the point they originally declined his claim in 2022. They 
should refund any interest, fees, or charges that he incurred as a result of the transaction 
remaining on his account. If refunding the transaction means there wouldve been a credit 
balance, Tesco need to pay 8% simple interest per year on that credit balance, from the date 
it wouldve arisen to the date of settlement.
Mr M responded and accepted the findings in my provisional decision. Tesco havent 
responded in the timeframe. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side have provided me with any additional evidence to consider here, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Tesco must settle the 
complaint as explained below. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank must:Rework Mr Ms credit card account as though the amount had been refunded from 
the point they declined his claim, and refund any interest, fees, or charges that he 
incurred as a result of the transaction remaining on his account. 
If refunding the transaction means there wouldve been a credit balance, Tesco need 
to pay 8% simple interest per year on that credit balance, from the date it wouldve 
arisen to the date of settlement.*
*If Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr M how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman