DRN-3294452
The complaint
Mrs S complains about The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) and the service theyve provided 
when pursuing claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) against several 
lenders.
Mrs S is being represented by Mr H during this complaint. For ease of reference, Ive 
referred to them both as Mrs S throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs S instructed TCG to pursue several PPI claims with different lenders. And several of 
these claims were successful. But Mrs S encountered difficulties during the processing of 
these claims. So, in late 2020, Mrs S raised her first complaint.
Mrs S was unhappy with the service TCG provided during her claims against lender H. She 
thought TCGs failures led to her needing to intervene and pursue the claims herself to 
ensure she received a refund. And Mrs S was also unhappy with the service she received 
when TCG pursued her complaint against lender M. So, she wanted the TCG to reduce her 
outstanding settlement fees to recognise this.
TCG provided their final response to these issues on 30 November 2020, partially upholding 
Mrs S complaint and offered an apology for any upset shed been caused. They also made 
Mrs S aware she had six months from the date of this letter to refer her complaint about 
these issues to our service.
Mrs S then raised another complaint in January 2021. Within this complaint, Mrs S explained 
she was unhappy with TCGs failure to acknowledge a letter shed sent to them in August 
2020. And she thought TCG had failed to update her appropriately regarding her claims with 
Lender H, Lender A and Lender S.
TCG provided their final response to these issues on 10 February 2021, not upholding Mrs 
S complaint. They thought theyd made reasonable attempts to contact Mrs S to 
acknowledge the letter she sent. And they thought they had updated Mrs S fairly regarding 
the claims she referred to. They also explained that due to the expiry of the PPI deadline, 
they were unable to challenge lender S Data Subject Access Response (DSAR) where they 
stated several accounts had no PPI. But as a gesture of good will, they applied a £50 
discount to Mrs S outstanding balance relating to settlement fees that were owing to them for 
several claims.  They also made Mrs S aware she had six months from the date of this letter 
to refer her complaint about these issues to our service.
Mrs S remained in dialogue with TCG, and further fee reductions were agreed relating to the 
issues raised in her first complaint made in late 2020. But Mrs S remained unhappy with 
TCGs response, so she referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. First, they explained they 
were unable to consider the issues Mrs S raised in her first complaint, as they fell outside of 
our time limits. Our investigator explained Mrs S had six months from the 30 November 2020 
to refer her complaint to us. And as she didnt refer the complaint to us until 25 July 2021, 
they explained those issues fell outside of our jurisdiction.
But our investigator was able to consider the issues raised in Mrs S second complaint, 
raised in January 2021 as shed referred these issues to us within six months of TCGs final 
response letter. And having done so, they didnt think TCG had done anything wrong. They 
thought TCG had updated Mrs S fairly when an update needed to be provided. And they had 
seen evidence to show TCG had attempted to acknowledge the letter Mrs S sent in August 
2020. They also didnt think TCG had done anything wrong by not pursuing the mortgage 
claim with lender A further, due to the amount of time that had elapsed since the PPI 
deadline and the fact lender A were unable to confirm the account or that PPI was present. 
So, they didnt think TCG needed to do anything more. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She didnt think it was fair to say the issues raised in her first complaint 
were out of jurisdiction, as shed been in dialogue with TCG after the final response was 
issued. So, she thought the second final response dated February 2021 should be the 
response used to decide on the time limit for all her concerns. And she didnt think TCG had 
pursued her claim against lender A reasonably, as she thought shed provided evidence to 
show she held a mortgage. So, Mrs S thought TCG should compensate her for the potential 
financial loss she may have incurred if PPI had been mis-sold on that account. As Mrs S 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain how Ive reached my decision, I think its important to explain exactly what 
Ive been able to consider. The types of complaint we can look into are set out in our rules 
which can be found in the FCAs handbook under DISP. These include time limits on how 
long a customer has to bring a complaint to us after a business has issued a final response.
We can only consider a complaint that has been brought to us within six months of the date 
of the final response, unless there are exceptional circumstances, or the business provides 
consent for us to continue.
On this occasion, TCG issued their final response to the issues Mrs S raised in her first 
complaint, about lender H and lender M, on 30 November 2020. And this response 
explained Mrs S had six months from the date of that response to come to us. So, Mrs S 
wouldve needed to refer her complaint about these issues to us by 30 May 2021. But Mrs S 
didnt contact our service regarding these issues until 25 July 2021. So, Im satisfied this 
complaint, and the issues raised within it, fall outside of the six-month time limit. And TCG 
havent provided us with their consent to continue. 
Ive then considered whether there any exceptions circumstances that prevented Mrs S from 
bringing her complaint us. For me to agree that there are qualifying exceptional 
circumstances, Id need to be satisfied that Mrs S situation meant there was no reasonable 
way for her to contact us until July 2021. And unfortunately, I havent seen any on this 
occasion.
I understand Mrs S remained in dialogue with TCG regarding the complaint. And I recognise Mrs S made a second complaint about different issues, which received a separate final 
response. So, I can understand why Mrs S wanted to bring all over her issues to us together, 
and so waited for TCG to respond to all her issues. But I dont think this qualifies as an 
exceptional circumstance.
I think it was Mrs S own decision to continue speaking to TCG about her complaint, after 
they had issued a final response. The final response TCG provided Mrs S made it clear how 
long she had to refer her complaint to our service, so I think Mrs S wouldve been reasonably 
aware of this time limit. So, whether or not Mrs S wanted to continue dealing with TCG, I 
would still expect her to bring her complaint to us within the time limit that was set. And as 
Mrs S was able to continue communication with TCG, I dont think there were any 
circumstances that prevented Mrs S from being unable to contact us as well. 
Ive also seen Mrs S state in a letter sent to TCG on 8 April 2021, which was still within the 
six-month time limit, that she would refer her complaint to our service if TCG failed to reach a 
settlement with her that she deemed appropriate. And this was followed with another letter 
on 7 May 2021, again still within the six-month time limit, that she reserved her right to refer 
her complaint to us. So, Im satisfied Mrs S was aware of her ability to bring her complaint to 
our service. And I think she shouldve been reasonably aware of when she needed to do this 
by. 
So, while I appreciate Mrs S was most likely acting in good faith by ensuring all of her issues 
were brought together, the issues that TCG addressed in their response dated 30 November 
2020 fall outside of our jurisdiction and I wont be considering them further.
Ive then turned to the complaint issues I have been able to consider, that TCG addressed in 
their final response issued in February 2021. For me to say TCG have done something 
wrong, and so should compensate Mrs S, Id need to be satisfied that they failed to update, 
or acknowledge receipt of documents, within a reasonable period of time. And that TCGs 
failure to do this has had a detrimental impact on Mrs S, or the claims TCG were pursuing. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Mrs S says TCG failed to acknowledge the letter she sent to them in August 2020 and that 
they failed to action the documents this letter included, which resulted in her being unable to 
claim for mis-sold PPI on that account provided by lender A. 
But I can see Mrs S letter was scanned onto the system, with a note attached for Mrs S to 
be contacted so the letter could be acknowledged. And TCG have explained an 
acknowledgement wasnt provided straight away due to the challenges caused by COVID-
19, which I dont think is an unreasonable explanation. 
I can see TCG then tried to call Mrs S on two occasions, on 25 August 2020 and 2 
September 2020, without answer. So, I think TCG took reasonable steps to acknowledge 
this correspondence. And TCG explained when no answer was received, they moved on to 
acknowledging other customers, which again I dont think was an unreasonable decision to 
make. Ive also listened to the call between Mrs S and TCG on 29 September, where the 
letter was acknowledged. So, Mrs S was made aware it had been received by TCG and I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong here.
Im aware Mrs S thinks TCG shouldve then forwarded this letter to lender A and because 
they didnt, shes missed out on the opportunity to claim for mis-sold PPI. But Ive seen TCG 
submitted a DSAR to lender S, who lender A are apart of the wider group, before the PPI 
deadline in August 2019. And it was confirmed in 2019 that there was no PPI on any 
accounts they could find, bar an account that had been claimed for previously.Mrs S didnt provide evidence of her account with lender A until August 2020, more than nine 
months later and a year after the PPI deadline had passed. So, I dont think TCG were 
unreasonable to say they were unable to progress the claim further, due to the time that had 
elapsed and the fact no PPI had been found or confirmed on the account. And because of 
this, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold TCG responsible for Mrs S to reclaim mis-
sold PPI on this account. Mrs S may be able to speak to lender A directly about the account 
but as no claim was submitted before the PPI deadline in August 2019, they may not be able 
to consider the claim further.
Ive then thought about Mrs S belief that TCG failed to keep her adequately updated on her 
claims against lender H, S and A. And having done so, I dont think thats the case. For 
lender H, I can see TCG notified Mrs S that no PPI was found on her account on the same 
day they were made aware themselves. So, although no updates were provided while they 
were waiting for lender H to respond, I wouldnt expect them to do this due to the volume of 
claims that were submitted close to the PPI deadline meaning no significant update was 
available.
And I can see TCG made Mrs S aware of lender S response, also on behalf of lender A, the 
day after it was received in November 2019. And before that, they ensured a new letter of 
authority was signed by the joint party to the account and returned to lender S within a 
reasonable amount of time. So, I dont think I can say TCG failed to update Mrs S and 
because of this, I dont think TCG need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping for. And I recognise Mrs S has made 
several comments about the issues raised in her first complaint which we cant consider and 
why she thinks these directly impact the issues I have commented on within this decision. 
Im also aware TCG have offered a significant fee reduction, not including the £50 gesture of 
good will, and I appreciate why Mrs S believes this is an acceptance from TCG of their 
failures. But this fee reduction has been made in response to Mrs S first complaint, which 
Im unable to consider. 
This decision has focused solely on the issues TCG responded to in their second complaint. 
And having thought about the issues raised within this, I dont think TCG have acted unfairly. 
And so, I dont think they need to do anything more. It is Mrs S decision whether she wishes 
to accept the £50 gesture of goodwill put forward by TCG.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about The Claims Guys 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman