DRN-2047170
The complaint
Mr I complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly closed his top up card bank 
account, and then failed to reinstate it after saying it would.  Mr I also complains Santander 
failed to call him back as promised about this matter.
What happened
Mr I has a basic bank account with Santander, which he used in conjunction with his top 
up account  this had been in an unarranged overdraft since 2018. 
Santander wrote to Mr I on a couple of occasions to settle the outstanding balance in 
May 2019. Mr I says he didnt repay the balance as he had an ongoing dispute with 
Santander which this service was looking into which wouldve affected the balance 
outstanding on his top-up account. 
As Santander didnt hear from Mr I about paying off his balance on the top up account it 
proceeded to close it in June 2019. A few days later Mr I called Santander to discuss the 
account and having it reinstated. Mr I says he was told the account would be reinstated if he 
paid off the balance and that the advisor he spoke to agreed to call him back later that day. 
Santander didnt call Mr I back that day. Mr I then complained to Santander about this 
matter. In its response, Santander said: 
it apologised the account was closed whilst an investigation was still on-going;
it also apologised Mr I was given conflicting information that his top-up account would 
be reinstated when that wasnt the case;
that he would have to close his basic bank account and then re-apply for a new one 
with a new top up card account attached;
for the inconvenience caused to Mr I, Santander credited his account with £100 
I then sent both parties my provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part 
of this final decision  on 26 June 2020. I explained that I was planning to partially uphold 
this complaint. 
In summary, I accepted Santanders admission - at face value - that it had got things wrong 
when it closed Mr Is top-up account. And to put things right I said it would need to reinstate 
the account. But if it couldnt, and it was able to provide persuasive reasoning as to why, it 
would have to give Mr I a new top-up account and basic bank account with the same terms 
as before. I said this would ensure Mr I wouldnt suffer any detriment.
I also said that I didnt think Santander did anything wrong in relation to the complaint points 
Mr I had made about a phone call with one of its advisors. To be clear I didnt think, after 
listening to the call recording, that Santanders advisor had said Mr Is top-up account would 
be reinstated if he paid off the outstanding balance. Nor was a promise made to call Mr I 
back that day. 
Finally, I went on to say that Santander should pay another £100 on top of the £100 it had 
already paid Mr U for the trouble and upset it had caused Mr I. 
Mr I has responded and accepted the proposed outcome in my provisional decision. 
Santander has also responded, and in its response, it has said: 
the £100 it has already awarded Mr I is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for the trouble and upset Santander has caused him; 
that its systems wouldnt allow for the closed top-up account to be re-opened. And if 
it re-opened the top-up account, Santander wouldnt be able to correctly report it to 
the credit reference agencies;
that it would have to open a new top-up account alongside the existing basic account
As both parties have now responded to my provisional decision, I will decide this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, and for the same reasoning that I set-out in my provisional decision, 
Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied with Santanders reasoning as to why it cannot re-open Mr Is now closed top-up 
account. Santander has also been consistent from the off-set about this being an issue. 
Santander has said it can open another top-up account to run alongside Mr Is basic bank 
account. As long as this account is opened and has the same terms as Mr Is previous top 
up account, I see no reason as to why this isnt a reasonable solution to put things right. This 
would also ensure Mr I doesnt suffer any detriment. 
Though not explicitly put, Santander hasnt agreed with my recommendation that it should 
pay a further £100 for the trouble and upset it has caused Mr I. Id like to assure Santander 
that in making this award I had carefully considered everything that had happened, and the 
impact that this had on Mr I. Especially in light of Mr Is vulnerabilities, which I understand 
Santander are aware of. 
So in summary, I think Santander should open a new top-up account to run alongside Mr Is 
basic bank account  and that it should be done under the same terms as before. Santander 
should also pay Mr I a further £100 compensation on top of the £100 it has already paid him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Is complaint and direct 
Santander UK plc to put things right in line with what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman