DRN-1786291
 
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs L took out a further advance on their mortgage with BoS in 2000. At the same 
time they were sold a PPI policy which would have covered their mortgage repayments for 
up to 24 months at a time if Mrs L couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. 
Mr M and Mrs L say that it wasnt optional and they didnt need it.
 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr M and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. Mr M and Mrs L 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr M and Mrs 
Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P and Mrs L indicate that they were not told that the PPI was optional. BoS has provided 
a copy of Mr P and Mrs Ls mortgage application form. This makes clear the PPI is optional. 
It says we recommend that you consider our mortgage repayments insurance scheme. Mr 
P and Mrs L have both signed to say they want PPI. And Mr P and Mrs L completed a 
separate application form to apply for the PPI.   
Mr P and Mrs L say that they were advised that it was a good idea, and also that we most 
probably asked questions before taking out the insurance so the seller must have convinced 
us it was the right thing to do. Mr P and Mrs L separately indicate that they were pressured 
into buying the PPI.
Mr P and Mrs L dont describe anything outside a normal and acceptable sales process. 
There is no indication that Mr P and Mrs L were told anything untrue about the policy or that 
the seller was aggressive or unduly persistent. Mr P and Mrs L havent said what happened 
to make them feel pressured.
So, on the information I have available to me I am satisfied Mr P and Mrs L bought the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it. 
Bos say it advised Mr M and Mrs L to take the PPI. This means it had to check it was 
suitable for them, especially for Mrs L whom the policy covered. I dont know if BoS took all 
the steps it should have done to check this, but I do think the policy was suitable for Mr M 
and Mrs L. I say this because:
Mrs L was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing medical conditions;
Mrs L received sick pay from her employer, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for a lot longer than her sick pay would have lasted. 
And if she had been made redundant the policy would have paid out for up to 24 
months at a time, leaving any contractual redundancy pay to cover other uninsured 
expenses;
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr M and Mrs L;
Mr M and Mrs L could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out if they no 
longer wanted or needed it. 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr M and Mrs L, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions 
in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it 
out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr M and Mrs L wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this because Im satisfied the PPI was suitable for Mr M and Mrs L in the way Ive 
described.
Mr M and Mrs L have queried why only Mrs L was covered. I can see from the application 
form that both of them signed it, but the application was printed only in Mrs Ls name. Even if 
this wasnt what they had wanted at the time, I dont think Mr M and Mrs L lost out as a result 
as Mr M has not told this service that he ever needed to make a claim. 
So, having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr M and Mrs L 
this PPI policy.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr M and Mrs Ls complaint, so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman