DRN-2942543
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded a default on his credit file after he
advised them that he was receiving treatment for cancer.  
What happened
Mr W had a credit account with Barclays which fell into arrears. Unfortunately, in recent
years, Mr W has been receiving ongoing treatment for cancer, and this meant that he had
been unable to work and wasnt receiving sufficient income to allow him to make the
necessary minimum payments toward the account.
In early June 2020, Mr W contacted Barclays and asked for a payment holiday on his credit
card. At that stage, Mr W hadnt made a payment towards the account since May 2020, and
while Barclays were discussing this matter with Mr W the line went dead. Barclays attempted
to call Mr W back, but without success. Barclays also sent letters to Mr W attempting to
regain contact with him.
Mr W then contacted Barclays again in late June and explained that he was receiving
treatment for cancer at that time. Mr W confirmed that he was only receiving a portion of his
normal salary which meant, given that he was predicted to require treatment for several
months, that it was unlikely that he would be able to make the necessary minimum payments
towards the account for that period.
Based on this, Barclays decided to cancel Mr Ws credit card and agreed not to charge any
further interest or fees to prevent further account accrual. Barclays also advised Mr W that
they would look to default his account for non-payment if he was unable to clear the balance
outstanding on the card by late August 2020.
Mr W wasnt able to make the necessary payment to clear the account balance and
subsequently his account was defaulted by Barclays. Mr W wasnt happy about this,
especially as hed been able to clear the balance in full approximately one month later. So,
he made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ws complaint, but they felt that they had applied the default to his
account fairly. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays hadnt acted
unfairly by applying the default, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 June 2021 as follows:
Its only natural to sympathise with Mr W and the difficulties that hes faced in recent 
times. I can therefore understand how it must have been distressing for Mr W when 
Barclays defaulted his credit account for non-payment, especially given that Mr W 
had contacted Barclays and explained his situation and requested a payment holiday 
from them.
In circumstances such as this, where a customer has advised a business that 
medical issues mean that they will be unable to make the minimum contractual 
payments required on the account, what this service would expect would be that the 
business would react positively and sympathetically towards that customer, so as to 
help them negotiate the difficult personal situation that they are facing, if possible.
At first glance, it appears that Barclays did that here. They confirmed that Mr Ws 
reduced income meant that Mr W couldnt afford the minimum payments due on the 
account, and they froze interest and charges on the account so that the overall 
balance outstanding on the account wouldnt increase.
But having reviewed all the information available to me on this complaint, Im not 
convinced that Barclays took fair account of the seriousness or extent of Mr Ws 
position here, or indeed sought to better understand the full nature of Mr Ws 
circumstances, and I feel that if Barclays had done so they might have made different 
decisions with regards how they managed Mr Ws account.
For instance, Barclays began default proceedings against Mr W and advised him that 
the account would be defaulted if Mr W wasnt able to clear the full outstanding 
balance owed on the account within the next two months.
I dont feel that this course of action takes appropriate regard of the difficult personal 
position that Mr W was experiencing at that time, given that he was receiving what 
can only be considered as significant and debilitating treatment for a potentially life-
threatening condition.
Furthermore, its difficult not to conclude that Mr W would have been unnecessarily
distressed by the course of action that Barclays decided to pursue here  at a time 
when it would be expected by this service that Barclays would have taken Mr Ws 
medical status into account more sympathetically, so that they didnt add additional 
stress to Mr Ws personal position at that time.
Barclays may contend that they werent made aware of the seriousness of Mr Ws 
condition or of the debilitating effects of the treatment that he was receiving. But, 
having been told by Mr W that he was receiving treatment for cancer, I feel that it was 
incumbent on Barclays to have gathered further information from Mr W to enable 
them to make a fully informed choice about how best to proceed. And this is 
especially the case given the seriousness of Mr Ws position and the effects of the 
treatment and medication Mr W received, both of which might reasonably have 
affected Mr Ws clarity of thinking concerning the need to communicate effectively 
about this matter himself.
Ultimately, while there are aspects of Barclays response here that are commendable 
 including ensuring that Mr Ws outstanding balance wouldnt increase - it remains 
that case that Barclays gave Mr W approximately two months to pay the outstanding balance in full at a time that Mr W was receiving debilitating treatment for a serious 
medical condition and was therefore in a particularly vulnerable position. And this 
doesnt feel fair to me.
Its also notable that had Barclays chosen a different course of action  for instance, 
placing a freeze on Mr Ws account and maintaining regular contact with Mr W until 
his treatment had completed and he was in a reasonable position to manage his 
finances again  then it would have been the case that the payment that Mr W was 
able to make to clear the balance in full in September 2020 would have meant that 
Mr W didnt incur a default on his account.
It follows from the above that I dont feel that its fair that Mr W should have incurred 
a default on his account in these particular circumstances, and therefore my 
provisional decision will be that I uphold this complaint in Mr Ws favour and that I 
instruct Barclays to remove the default from Mr Ws credit file as though it had never 
been reported.
I hope that both Mr W and Barclays can understand, given what I have explained 
above, why I have made the provisional decision that I have.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr W and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments of further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.
Both Mr W and Barclays confirmed that they had no further comments to add. As such, I see 
no reason to amend my provisional decision in any way, and my final decision will be a 
confirmation of that provisional decision accordingly.
  
Putting things right
Barclays must remove the default from Mr Ws credit file as though it had never been 
recorded.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman