DRN-4180431
The complaint
Mr H says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance,
who Ill call BPF, should uphold claims he made to them under the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (the CCA) in relation to timeshares he financed through agreements with them.
Mr H has been represented by a professional representative who Ill refer to as PR. Where
I refer to Mr Hs submissions I include those made on his behalf.
Mr H entered into the timeshare agreements with his partner, but as the finance agreements
were in his sole name, I will refer only to Mr H or his representatives in this decision. I mean
no disrespect to Mr Hs partner when doing so.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr H purchased a timeshare from a company Ill call A, in March 2008 (the Time of the
First Sale). He financed the deal through a fixed sum loan with BPF. The timeshare
membership agreement gave him the right to a floating weeks holiday for a week of every
year. The finance agreement was settled in 2010.
In June 2010 Mr H upgraded his membership and purchased a further timeshare. He
financed the balance due on that agreement through a further fixed sum loan with BPF.
Mr H complained to BPF in February 2019. He said he had claims under section 75 and
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). Its not practical to list the
complaint in detail here but in summary he claimed that the timeshare agreement had been
misrepresented to him, that thered been a breach of fiduciary duty as commission wasnt
disclosed to him, and that there had been an unfair relationship, he also said BPF hadnt
completed adequate affordability checks.
Our investigator noted that Mr H had expanded his claim since referring it to this Service, he
explained that we could only consider a complaint after the business had been allowed to,
and as BPF had only been able to consider the complaint points referred to them by Mr Hs
representatives in February 2019, they were the issues hed look at. He thought Mr Hs claim
about his first agreement had been made out of time according to the time limits established
by the Limitations Act 1980. He thought Mr Hs section 75 claim about the second
agreement was also out of time, but he did think we could consider the claim under section
140A as it was in time. However, he wasnt persuaded there was sufficient evidence of an
unfair relationship.
Mr H and his representatives didnt agree with the investigators view, they said a termination
provision contained in the timeshare agreement, which involved forfeiting the entire
purchase price if maintenance payments were missed, was an unfair term under the Unfair
Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCRs). They asked for a decision by
an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues that were initially referred to
BPF.
This service cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they havent been made to
the business first. Im therefore only considering the merits of the complaint Mr H and his
representatives made to BPF in February 2019.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, and standards,
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Limitation Act 1980 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a
credit agreement has the same right to make a claim against the credit provider as against
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of the
lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship exists between Mr H and BPF.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr H may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take them into account when deciding whether BPF would be reasonable
to reject Mr Hs claims.
Under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA) a claim under section 75 for misrepresentation
against BPF had to be made within six years of when Mr H had everything he needed to
make such a claim. And in this complaint, I think that was when he purchased the timeshare
agreements in March 2008 and June 2010. After all, he says that he entered into the
agreement to purchase the timeshare because of misrepresentations. And as the upshot of
the claim was that he would not have made the purchase but for the misrepresentations at
the Time of Sale, it was at those times that he suffered a loss because he ended up
borrowing money from BPF. So, Mr H had until March 2014 and June 2016, respectively, to
raise his section 75 claims with BPF. As he didnt do so until February 2019, and as I cantsee a reason why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, I think
its likely a court would consider his section 75 claims to be time barred. That would give
BPF a complete defence against them.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A of the CCA as well. The time for limitation purposes
runs from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the
claim was made. Here the limitation period is six years. That is because the claim Mr H
wishes to make is for repayment of sums he has paid, which is an action for sums
recoverable under statute, to which section 9 of the LA applies. That meant Mr H would have
to bring an action within six years of the date the credit was repaid. The March 2008
agreement was repaid in 2010 but as Mr H didnt raise his claim until February 2019, and as
I cant see a reason why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA,
I think he brought that claim too late  which, in my view, is likely to give BPF a complete
defence to it. The June 2010 finance agreement was repaid in 2014 and Mr H therefore
raised that complaint in time. Ill therefore consider that claim.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA regarding the second agreement
Section 140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
Mr H says he was told he could take free holidays but that he subsequently found that
maintenance fees were payable. Ive seen a copy of the Reservation Rules; its not clear if
those Rules are the ones related to the second agreement but in the absence of other
documents it seems likely that they were. Those Rules explain that management fees are
payable, and I think its reasonable to suggest that Mr H would have been aware of that. I
also think he would have been very likely to have complained about the presence of
management fees earlier than he did, if he didnt understand there was a commitment to pay
them. Im not therefore persuaded there was an unfair relationship.
Mr H also says the agreement was unfair because it was poor value for money. The cost of
the agreement was clearly set out, and Mr H agreed to pay that amount. I cant see how that
deal could therefore be considered unfair as it seems it was both transparent and
consensual.
Whilst I understand Mr H asserts he was told he could sell the product for a profit I cant see
that could be the case here. Mr H wasnt purchasing an asset, he was purchasing a floating
week at the Resort. Whilst there were subsequent purchases of fractional products that Mr H
may be referring to here, they were not funded by the finance agreement with BPF. I dont
therefore think there has been sufficient evidence of an unfair relationship in that respect.
Mr Hs representatives say that a termination provision in Mr Hs timeshare agreement
meant he would forfeit the entire purchase price if he missed payments, and was therefore
unfair. They explained that it would cause a significant imbalance in the parties rights and
obligations and was contrary to Regulation 5 and 6 of the UTCCRs. But Mr H cancelled his
contract in April 2011 when he exchanged it for a fractional product. So, it would seem at
that point he was no longer obliged to pay maintenance fees and, regardless, he hadnt
suffered any loss even if the term was unfair.
Mr Hs representatives say BPF failed to disclose the commission paid.
One of the main aims of both the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange
Contract Regulations 2010 and the UTCCRs was to enable consumers to understand the
financial implications of their purchase so that they were/are put in the position to make an
informed decision. If a suppliers disclosure and/or the terms of a bargain didnt recognise
and reflect that aim, and the consumer ultimately lost out or almost certainly stands to lose
out from having entered into a contract whose financial implications they didnt fullyunderstand at the time of contracting, that may amount to unfairness under Section 140A.
I dont think the fact that BPF may have paid the Supplier commission was incompatible with
its role in the transaction. The Supplier wasnt acting as an agent of Mr H but as the supplier
of contractual rights he obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in relation to the loan,
based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to make an impartial or
disinterested recommendation or to give Mr H advice or information on that basis. Whats
more, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the typical amounts of commission paid
by BPF to suppliers (like the Supplier) when loans were interest bearing (as was the case on
this occasion) was likely to be high enough to create an unfair debtor-creditor relationship
given the circumstances of this particular complaint. I think its unlikely a court would find that
the failure to disclose commission in this case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
Ultimately, I dont think a court would find evidence to suggest there was an unfair
relationship and Im not therefore persuaded it would be reasonable to expect BPF to uphold
Mr Hs s140A claim.
Was the loan irresponsible?
Mr H says that BPF were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan.
However, even if BPF didnt complete adequate affordability checks (and I make no finding
about that) when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration
is whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, for me to
say BPF needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the credit
granted by BPF was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr H suffered a loss as a result. As
theres little evidence that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay what he was
lent by BPF, Im not persuaded the agreements were unaffordable for him.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and evidence
Mr Hs representatives replied to my provisional decision and said:
We are of the view that the finance agreements are manifestly unfair, as the credit 
intermediary in each case was not regulated to do the work.
Moreover, this was a fractional timeshare product, where Our Clients were promised a return 
on investment.
BPF had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already explained why I dont think theres sufficient evidence the agreement Mr H 
entered into was a fractional product. As Mr Hs representatives havent provided any new 
information in support of their assertion, Im not persuaded to change my view on that issue.I cant see that Mr H raised concerns with BPF about the credit intermediary not being 
regulated. I explained in my provisional decision that, This service cant usually consider the 
merits of new complaints if they havent been made to the business first. Im therefore only 
considering the merits of the complaint Mr H and his representatives made to BPF in 
February 2019. Mr H will therefore need to raise any complaint he may have about the 
credit intermediarys regulation to BPF, before this Service can consider it.
Ultimately, having considered Mr Hs representatives additional comments, Ive not seen 
anything that would lead me to change my provisional decision, and that now becomes my 
final decision on this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman