DRN-4051099
The complaint
Mr D complins that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves provided him 
with a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Fund Ourselves advanced Mr D a loan on 9 August 2020. The loan amount was £200, with 
an arrangement fee of £100, to be repaid in four instalments of £88 each, firstly on 
12 August 2020, then over the next three months. Mr D paid one instalment but no further 
instalments and the loan was defaulted and sold to a debt collection agency (DCA) in 
February 2021.
Mr D complained that at the time of taking out the loan he wasnt financially able to afford the 
repayments. He was unemployed and his credit score was poor. He wasnt notified that the 
debt had been passed to a DCA, and wanted Fund Ourselves to take back the loan and sort 
out a deal with him.
Fund Ourselves said that it carried out a credit check and assessed Mr Ds ability to pay the 
loan from the information set out in his application form. On the form he said he was 
employed, living with parents with a net monthly income of £1,300 and monthly 
commitments of £265. So it believed he could afford the loan repayments. It didnt tell Mr D it 
was selling the debt to a DCA, but points out that the terms of the loan agreement allow for 
this, and direct contact is made by the DCA to arrange payment.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our Adjudicator said that from all the information 
she considered, she didnt think that Fund Ourselves had done anything wrong.
Mr D disagreed, he said that he expected Fund Ourselves to look at his bank statements. If it 
had, it would have seen he had gambling problems.
The mattered has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Fund Ourselves complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr D would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Fund Ourselves to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Fund Ourselves had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Fund Ourselves had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr D undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Fund Ourselves to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The key words here are reasonable and proportionate. Fund Ourselves carried out a basic 
credit check, although I should point out that the rules dont require it to do so. That check 
satisfied Fund Ourselves that Mr D wasnt in difficulties over past credit or loans. The actual 
data is difficult to interpret though it confirms Mr Ds address and date of birth, and appears 
to show no recent missed payments. Ive seen no evidence to show anything different.
A customer applying for a loan has a responsibility to provide accurate information about 
their income and employment situation. As the amount of the loan was modest, and the first 
loan Mr D had taken out with Fund Ourselves, and due to be repaid within three months, 
I think that it was reasonable of Fund Ourselves to rely on the information provided to it to 
assess his ability to afford the loan. There didnt appear to be any other indicators that he 
might not have been able to afford it. 
I wouldnt expect Fund Ourselves to obtain any other information such as bank statements, it 
wouldnt be proportionate to expect it to do so. So if Mr D did have gambling problems it 
wouldnt have seen this unless he told it. I have seen no evidence that Mr D told Fund 
Ourselves about his spending activities. So I think that Fund Ourselves made a reasonable 
lending decision.
Mr D says he wasnt told the loan had been sold to a DCA, and wants it to be taken back by 
Fund Ourselves. He also says that he contacted Fund Ourselves multiple times about not 
being able to pay off the loan but had no response. Under the terms of the loan agreement Mr D signed there was a warning that if he missed 
payments Fund Ourselves reserved the right to charge default interest, report the debt to a 
Credit Reference Agency and to sell any outstanding balance to a DCA. The loan was sold 
on in February 2021, and the DCA should have been in contact with Mr D about repaying the 
loan. I cant require Fund Ourselves to buy back the loan as Im not upholding the complaint.
As for Mr D contacting Fund Ourselves about missing the payments, I note that it says the 
first contact it received from him about the outstanding loan was in August 2022, when he 
made his complaint. Any contact about the outstanding loan should have been made with 
the DCA after February 2021. Also Ive seen no other evidence of Mr Ds contact with Fund 
Ourselves.
Taking all those matters into consideration, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman