DRN-2451579
The complaint
Mrs B complained because Capital One (Europe) plc didnt agree that someone else had 
fraudulently opened and used a credit card in her name.
What happened
On 28 November 2018, a Capital One credit card was taken out in Mrs Bs name. It had a 
credit limit of £500. The first statement said that the minimum payment, which for that month 
was £5, would be taken on 16 January. This payment, and subsequent ones, duly credited 
the account.
But by the time of the March 2019 statement, the balance was just over £600. The statement 
said Mrs B needed to bring the balance back within the £500 credit limit. In April only the 
minimum payment was made again.
On 5 May, Capital One rang Mrs B, who said she didnt have a Capital One account. She 
said shed previously had one but it had been closed. And Mrs B also said that shed moved 
from the address at which the credit card had been opened.
Capital One investigated. On 21 June, it wrote to Mrs B and said that it couldnt accept Mrs 
Bs claim that someone had fraudulently opened the account in her name. It said that it had 
based the decision on information from Mrs B, credit reference agencies and fraud 
databases. It said that Mrs B would no longer be able to use the card but would be liable for 
the balance.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said she hadnt applied for the card, and wasnt willing to make 
payments.
Capital Ones collections team rang Mrs B several times about the outstanding balance. Mrs 
B sent more information but Capital One didnt change its view. Mrs B approached this 
service. On 19 November Capital One sent Mrs B a default notice letter, and defaulted the 
account on 22 December.
On 9 January 2020, Capital One sent its final response to Mrs B. It said its decision 
remained unchanged that the account hadnt been opened fraudulently by someone 
impersonating Mrs B. It told Mrs B it had sold the debt, and that another firm would be 
contacting her about ways to repay.
In Mrs Bs complaint to this service, she said shed been living at a different address when 
the credit card had been opened, and no longer had keys to the property. She also said her 
job title was wrong on the application. She said she had a suspicion about who had opened 
the card fraudulently, which was her partners ex-partner whod had access to the address at 
the time. Mrs B said that from post later given to her by the estate agent, shed seen that 
Capital One had sent junk mail inviting her to re-open an account, and this had had her 
details on it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He considered the options for who might 
have opened the account and made the transactions  someone unknown to Mrs B; a 
known third party without her consent; or Mrs B herself. The investigator said that on 
balance, he believed it was most likely that Mrs B had set up the credit card herself and 
authorised the transactions.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied. She said she hadnt realised the monthly payments had been coming 
out of her bank account because they were small. Nor had she taken out the card then 
forgotten about it. She said she hadnt had access to the address to which the credit card 
would have been sent, and she hadnt opened the account or spent the money. Mrs B said 
she had found this very stressful, and it was disgusting that no-one was taking her views 
seriously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The disputed account was opened using Mrs Bs correct details, including her email address, 
mobile number, job and address. Mrs B said that her job title was wrong, but I find that it was 
very similar to what Mrs B said it should be. The direct debit which paid credits to the 
account was also set up on Mrs Bs correct bank account. 
I consider its unlikely that an unknown third party would have been able to obtain all this 
information. I recognise that Mrs B has said that this information was the same as it had 
been on her previous Capital One account, and she said that she suspects her partners ex-
partner. I think its unlikely that a partners ex-partner would have had access to all Mrs Bs 
personal information, including her bank details and phone number. 
I also consider its unlikely that any such person would have had sole access to the 
registered address when the account was opened, in order to obtain the card and  
separately-sent PIN, and to intercept all incoming Capital One statements and other mail 
once the account had been set up. Mrs B told Capital One that this person still had keys to 
the property after she and her partner had left. But Ive seen information which indicates that 
Mrs B was still at the property until after November 2018 when the new Capital One account 
was opened. So I dont consider this scenario is likely. 
But most of all, I consider its very unlikely that any third party would have used this account 
in the way it was used. A fraudster wouldnt be likely to use Mrs Bs correct email and correct 
phone number on a fraudulent application, because it would be much too likely that any such 
fraud would be found out. Similarly, if a fraudster set up an account using Mrs Bs correct 
bank details, it would again be very likely that as soon as the first payment went out, Mrs B 
would have noticed and queried it with the bank. Mrs B said she didnt check her account, 
and wouldnt have noticed the debits. But a fraudster wouldnt have known that. 
The pattern of spend on the card also doesnt suggest fraud. Fraudsters usually spend up to 
the maximum very quickly  to maximise gain before the chance of being found out. But 
here, the transactions are generally for relatively small routine spend, and the account 
opened on 28 November 2018 didnt go over the £500 credit limit until the March 2019 
statement. Thats just not typical of spend on a fraudulently opened account.
Ive checked the records of the transactions on the account. They were generally carried out 
either by the genuine card using chip and PIN, or contactless. Anyone carrying out a 
successful chip and PIN transaction must have had the genuine card and must have known the correct PIN.  There wasnt any online use on the account, so there is no indication that 
any third party has fraudulently attempted to access the account online. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that its most likely that Mrs B opened the 
account herself and carried out the transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman