DRN-4082035
The complaint
Mr T complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) recorded a claim he made on his motor insurance 
policy as fault without pursuing the organisations he believes were to blame. References to 
QIC include other organisations and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr T had motor insurance underwritten by QIC. He was driving abroad when he hit a wild 
animal. He made a claim on his motor insurance and, based on information he provided, 
QIC attempted to establish whether the highway maintenance agency or the local hunting 
association were responsible for keeping wild animals off the road. Unfortunately both 
organisations blamed the other. QIC decided it wasnt economical to pursue litigation against 
them, and so the claim was recorded as a fault claim. Mr T wasnt happy about this as it 
could mean higher premiums for his insurance in future, so he complained to QIC. QIC said 
it had made the correct decision in accordance with the terms of Mr Ts policy. QIC also said 
that this didnt prevent Mr T from pursuing litigation privately.
Mr T wasnt happy with QICs response so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He said he was satisfied that QIC had given proper 
consideration to the claim and acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ts policy. 
Mr T wasnt happy with what the investigator said, so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr T wants QIC to change the claim status to no fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ts insurance policy documents said:
General Conditions
Claims handling
v. We are entitled to take over, defend or settle any claim under this policy in the name of 
you or any other person covered by this policy and we are entitled to take legal action in any 
such name to recover any payments we make.
This is a standard clause in most motor insurance policies. It means that the insurer is 
entitled to decide how to settle a claim. However this service would still expect the insurer to 
settle the claim in a fair and reasonable way. In this case, I can see that QIC did contact the 
highway maintenance agency and the local hunting association to try to establish whether 
they were responsible for keeping wild animals off the road. Both organisations said it was 
the others responsibility. The only further option available to QIC to try to establish which 
organisation was responsible would have been to pursue legal action through the foreign 
courts. QIC decided it would not be economical to do so. I think this was a reasonable 
decision in the circumstances. It would have been a costly and possibly lengthy process, 
with no guarantee that at the end QIC would have been able to recover what it had paid to 
Mr T and its legal costs. In the absence of any proof that another party was at fault, I think it 
was reasonable for QIC to record the claim in the way it did.
So on balance I think that QIC acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance with the terms 
of Mr Ts policy in recording the claim as fault.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. So I wont be asking QIC 
Europe Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman