DRN-3995049
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release lifetime mortgage with Godiva Mortgages Limited 
taken out in 2008 by Mrs F and her husband, Mr F (who has since passed away). Mrs F 
says that she wasnt party to the advice given to take out the mortgage, and although she 
agreed to it, this was under pressure from Mr F. 
Mrs F also says that, following the original advance of £40,000, further drawdowns taken 
over the next ten years until 2018 were made without her knowledge, with Mr F forging her 
signature on the documents.
After Mr Fs death, Mrs F had to sell the property to repay the mortgage, which was then 
£258,245.37. Mrs F believes Godiva should reimburse her for this, less the £40,000 original 
advance  so £218,245.37.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full history of the matter. There are several reasons for this. First 
of all, what happened is set out in detail in correspondence, so there is no need for me to 
repeat it here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mrs F being identified. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining what I will be looking at in this decision. The mortgage was taken 
out in 2008 by Mr and Mrs F on the advice of their own independent financial adviser (IFA), 
and after taking advice from their own solicitor. Ive noted what Mrs F has said about both 
the financial and legal advice given in 2008. 
However, neither the IFA nor the solicitors are part of this complaint. If Mrs F has concerns 
about the advice she was given in 2008, she will need to raise those matters separately with 
the IFA (which is covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service) and the solicitors (which is 
covered by the Legal Ombudsman).
As far as Godiva was concerned, the documentation provided to it in 2008 showed that, 
before taking out the mortgage, both Mr and Mrs F had been given independent financial 
and legal advice. The advice included information about further drawdowns to a maximum of 
£131,000, and showed how interest would accrue on the amount borrowed. 
As I said above, if Mrs F is now saying she wasnt given advice, thats a separate matter. But 
as far as Godiva was concerned, Mrs F had been fully advised of the nature and implications 
of taking out the mortgage.
Mrs F says she was aware of the £40,000 advance, but that her husband had used it to pay 
off credit cards, rather than for the purpose she had believed the mortgage was for  which 
was to supplement his pension fund. Thats not something for which Godiva can be held 
liable, and indeed Mrs F acknowledges her liability for this original advance.
The crux of this complaint is that it wasnt until after Mr F passed away in December 2020 
that Mrs F first became aware that Mr F had used the full drawdown facility on the mortgage 
to withdraw the maximum amount of £131,000. He had done this over a period of ten years. 
Mrs F says that Mr F had forged her signature on the documents. 
Mrs F says that there was a lack of due diligence on the part of Godiva, as it didnt verify the 
signatures; if it had done so, it would have realised that she hadnt signed the forms. 
The drawdown facility had already been agreed in 2008. As a result, the drawdown process 
was a straightforward procedure,  involving a pre-populated document being issued on 
request. It didnt require a new application for borrowing, with the additional scrutiny that 
would come with a fresh application for new borrowing.
Ive looked at the forms Mrs F says contain forged signatures. I am not a handwriting expert, 
so I cant make any judgement on whether the signatures match Mrs Fs or not. But I accept 
what Mrs F has said  which is that she didnt sign these forms. Godiva accepted the forms 
in good faith  and I dont think the signatures on the forms differed from the original so 
significantly as to raise any red flags.
Ive also seen letters sent to Mr and Mrs F after drawdowns were made, confirming the 
amounts. Mrs F says it should have been a red flag that these were paid into Mr Fs bank 
account. However, there is nothing untoward about this, because it is a valid instruction, and 
is in accordance with the payment instruction given to Godiva when the mortgage was taken 
out.
I also note that the annual statements were addressed to both Mr and Mrs F. Ive noted what 
Mrs F has said  that Mr F controlled the finances (as well as other aspects of their domestic 
life). But Godiva would not be expected to know this, and it is a reasonable expectation that 
correspondence addressed to both Mr and Mrs F would be read by them both.
I know Mrs F says she did not give any instructions to Godiva, and so the drawdowns should 
not have been allowed. As a result, Mrs F believes that the full amount borrowed  including 
all interest accrued on the mortgage since the original drawdown of £40,000  should be 
repaid to her  less the original £40,000.
However, even though there is doubt over whether Mrs F agreed to the further drawdowns, I 
dont think that means that Godiva should refund the capital and interest (less £40,000) to 
Mrs F.
There is no dispute that Mrs F was a party to the mortgage in 2008, when she agreed to the 
roll-up of interest on the borrowing. So there is no basis on which it would be fair to say that 
Mrs F should be refunded interest on the £40,000 which she knew about and agreed to.
As far as the further drawdowns are concerned, this is not a case where a stranger has 
committed fraud and stolen money from Mrs F, or where a stranger has taken a loan out in 
her name that she never knew about. This is a case where Mrs F already had a joint 
mortgage, secured over a property she jointly owned. Even if I was to conclude that Mrs F 
hadnt been aware of the additional drawdowns after the original £40,000 advance, theres 
no dispute that Mr F was, or that Mr F received the money.This was Mr Fs property too, and he had given Godiva security for his borrowing, in the form 
of the mortgage over the property. So even if I was to find that Mrs F knew nothing about the 
further advances and shouldnt be held liable for them, this would still be Mr Fs borrowing, 
and would still be secured over the jointly-owned property. 
Therefore, even if I were to say that Mrs F wasnt liable for the additional drawdowns, Godiva 
was still entitled to recover the borrowing when the property was sold  as indeed it did. 
Thats because it is entitled to recover Mr Fs debts from Mr Fs property, using the security 
Mr F gave, and no-one disputes this is Mr Fs debt (notwithstanding whether or not it is also 
Mrs Fs debt). 
In other words, whether or not I find that Mrs F was unaware of the further drawdowns, she 
would be left in the same position. Either way, when the property was sold the full amount of 
Godivas mortgage  the original £40,000 advance and the further drawdowns needed to 
be repaid under the terms of the legal charge Godiva had over the property. 
Conclusion
This has been a difficult decision for me to write, because Ive noted everything Mrs F has 
said about her family circumstances. I can understand what a shock it was for her after Mr F 
passed away for her to discover the amount of debt he was in. As a result, Mrs F had to sell 
the family home to clear his debts, and I am sure this has been a very upsetting time for her. 
But I have to put aside my natural empathy, and decide the case on the basis of the 
evidence. 
Having done so, I am satisfied, for the reasons given above, that Godiva was entitled to 
recover the full amount of the mortgage debt when the property was sold. Thats because, 
even if Mrs F hadnt known about the additional drawdowns, Mr F did, and he had the benefit 
of the funds advanced by Godiva. In the circumstances, Godiva was entitled to be repaid out 
of the proceeds of sale.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs F was hoping for, and I am sorry if my decision adds to her 
distress. But in all the circumstances, Im unable to find that Godiva has done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman