DRN-1514316
The complaint
Miss D says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss D took out a £750 12-month instalment loan with Satsuma in October 2017. The 
repayments were £124.50 per month.
An adjudicator considered Miss D's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Miss D 
disagreed and so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss D could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Miss D Satsuma asked her for some information about her income and 
outgoings. Miss D said her monthly income was £1,975 and that her monthly outgoings 
included £550 for mortgage/rent, £80 for other credit commitments and £515 in the 'other' 
category. Satsuma applied what it calls 'safeguards' to those figures and made some 
significant adjustments to the £80 Miss D had declared for credit commitments - presumably 
as a result of its credit search. Satsuma's credit search suggested the worst piece of 
information on Miss D's credit file was that there was one payment in arrears.
I think the checks Satsuma carried out were proportionate and that it reasonably decided the 
loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for Miss D. I wouldn't have expected Satsuma to 
obtain copies of Miss D's bank statements, as she has suggested, for this loan. I don't think 
Satsuma's credit checks suggested Miss D was in any significant financial difficulty. Asking 
for bank statements would have been disproportionate.
For these reasons, I do not uphold Miss D's complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman