DRN-2773153
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that TSB Bank plc unfairly declined their application to port their 
existing mortgage to a new property. As a result they have had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with TSB. In July 2020 they were advised by a third-party 
broker to switch to a new fixed interest rate product. An ERC was payable if the mortgage 
was repaid before 31 August 2022.
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs L found a new family home they wanted to move to. They 
applied to TSB to port their existing mortgage to the new property. But TSB rejected that 
application. It said that the property Mr and Mrs L were buying was listed and that was 
outside its lending policy. As a result Mr and Mrs L had to find a mortgage with another 
lender and incurred an ERC of around £10,000 when the TSB mortgage was repaid.
Mr and Mrs L consider that TSBs decision, the application of the ERC and the refusal of 
TSB to apply its discretion to either approve the porting or waive the ERC were unfair.
Mr and Mrs L said that the purchase of the listed property eventually fell through. When the 
found another property they explored whether TSB would allow them to port their now 
redeemed mortgage to a different property. But TSB declined that application as it had been 
owned by the seller for less than six months. 
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
Their complaint was not tat TSB made an error but rather that TSB refused to waive the 
ERC or use its discretion in their unique circumstances.
The fact it wasnt TSB that gave them advice was irrelevant. The investigator was 
justifying the banks actions and terms post product.
The term regarding the ERC was clear. But they did not think it was designed to be 
applied in this way to affect customers who were unaware of TSBs lending policy. Other 
banks do not have the same restrictions.
It was TSB that wouldnt allow them to port the mortgage. They would either have to lose 
the sale of their property if they could not go ahead with the purchase of their new family 
home or continue with the sale. They continued with the sale a repaid the TSB mortgage.
Despite telling TSB about their circumstances, TSB exercised its right to apply the ERC 
penalising them for its decision. It was unfair for it to decline the porting application and 
apply the ERC.
Their understanding of what the investigator has said is that if a bank has something in 
its terms or lending criteria and doesnt advise a customer then that is not an error. But 
the investigator ought to have considered whether the terms and lending criteria had 
been applied fairly in the circumstances.
They were consumers and had no idea the lending policy was so narrow and inflexible.
TSB will apply its terms and lending policy to the letter of the agreement. As consumers 
they have no ability to negotiate. The agreement was one-sided in favour of TSB.
The ERC was designed to stop customers moving from one product to another. It was 
never envisaged to be applied in these circumstances.
TSB was unwilling to waive or deduct the ERC was because it was profiting from it.
The ERC was excessive  in the circumstances, the term provided and where even TSB 
staff members said it was high.
The lending criteria is difficult to find on TSBs website and the wording was unclear.
They were aware that TSB do make exceptions and lend on listed buildings in other 
cases. It declined their application so it could benefit from the ERC.  
Their solicitor told then that other banks waived ERCs.
TSB told them that it never waives its ERCs.
TSB took advantage of them when they were stressed und vulnerable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to determine what I consider to be fair and reasonable in my opinion in the 
individual circumstances of this case. I am required to take into account any relevant law, 
rules and what I consider to be good industry practice (amongst other things).
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint isnt that TSB could apply the ERC. Rather, they consider that it 
hasnt treated them fairly in both the way it applied its lending policy and in the application of 
the ERC.
I understand how stressful this experience was for Mr and Mrs L. They havent done 
anything wrong and yet they have been left with a significant and unexpected ERC to pay. I 
can see why think this is unfair. But it doesnt necessarily follow that TSB has acted in an 
unfair or unreasonable way. And having carefully considered the evidence we have, I dont 
consider that it has. I will explain my reasons for that: 
the product switch
When switching a mortgage product a consumer can either chose a product themselves 
(execution only) or receive advice from a broker or lender (advice). If a consumer receives 
advice, then the broker is responsible for gathering information about their needs and 
circumstances and recommending a suitable product. That would usually include thinking 
about whether it was appropriate to tie-in to a product with an ERC if the consumer was planning to move in the short-term  even if the product was portable. That will depend on 
the individual circumstances of a case.
Mr and Mrs L received advice about the product switch from a third-party broker. I dont 
know what information the broker gathered or why it thought this product was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs L  but that is not something that TSB is responsible for.
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs L agreed to the ERC when they took out the mortgage. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I am satisfied that it was set out clearly and prominently in the offer. 
And TSB was entitled to apply it because the mortgage was repaid during the tie-in period.
The offer set out that the product could be taken to a new property if TSB Bank agrees the 
new loanNew loan applications are assessed in line with the lending policy at that time. I 
dont think that TSB gave an irrevocable undertaking that it would allow the product to be 
ported in any circumstances. It took reasonable steps to set out that it was subject to its 
assessment. There was no requirement for TSB to set out what its lending policy was.
declined application
TSB approved the decision in principle from Mr and Mrs L. But this was always subject to a 
full application. I wouldnt expect lenders to carry out any checks on a property before that 
point.
Ive seen evidence that TSBs policy is that it does not lend on grade 1 and 2* listed 
properties in England and Wales. As the property Mr and Mrs L wanted to buy was a grade 1 
listed property, TSBs decision to decline it was in line with its policy. Mr and Mrs L have 
been treated fairly and in line with other borrowers.
It is for TSB to decide what properties it is prepared to accept as suitable security. That is 
legitimate commercial decision and it isnt for me to interfere in that. Other lenders may not 
have the same restrictions. But it doesnt follow that TSB has acted unfairly. 
Lenders can and do exercise their discretion from time to time and agree mortgages that are 
outside their usual lending criteria. But, again, it wouldnt usually be for me to say that any 
lender must do so. And I dont consider there are sufficient reasons to say that TSB acted 
unfairly by not approving the porting application as an exception to its lending policy.
Other than the fact the application was declined and the ERC applied, there is nothing to 
support that TSB declined the application just to apply the ERC. On the evidence I have 
seen, I consider it more likely that TSB made the decision to decline the application because 
it was outside its lending policy. This was a legitimate and fair decision for it to make.
ERC
Ive already found that the ERC was set out clearly and prominently and applied in line with 
the offer that Mr and Mrs L accepted.
The relevant rules permit lenders to apply ERCs. But TSB did not have a free hand to 
charge what it wants. The ERC should be a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the 
mortgage being repaid early. It doesnt have to be calculated individually for Mr and Mrs L  
it can be calculated across a range of mortgages of the same type. 
Usually lenders will incur costs in setting up a fixed rate  both administratively and in the 
cost of raising the funds at a particular rate. There are also sometimes costs in setting up 
(and coming out of) the financial instruments lenders use to protect their position. When a lender enters into a fixed rate, it is based on it being able to recoup those costs over 
the fixed rate period. So when the agreement is ended early there is likely to be a cost to it. 
That applies for whatever reason the mortgage is repaid. So the ERC is not there to prevent 
borrowers moving to a new rate (although that might be a consequence of it), but to allow 
lenders to recover the costs it has incurred because the fixed rate has been broken.
I dont consider that the ERC creates a significant imbalance in favour of TSB. It is simply a 
way for it to recover the costs it has estimated to incur if the mortgage was repaid within the 
tie-in period. 
In this case the ERC was 2% in the first year of the tie-in period and 1% in the second. That 
is not out of line with ERC applied by other lenders. Ive not seen any evidence to show that 
the amount was excessive. 
conclusion
I know Mr and Mrs L felt they were left with no choice but to repay their mortgage when TSB 
declined their porting application. I appreciate that finding a new home can involve an 
emotional investment and that they felt they had to continue with their sale and purchase  
for all of the reasons they have given us. But I understand that they hadnt exchanged 
contracts by that point. So they could have mitigated their loss by pulling out of their 
purchase. It was their decision not to do that. 
But in view of that, in addition to all the above points, and in particular:
TSB didnt advise Mr and Mrs L: to take out a fixed rate shortly before they planned to 
move.
TSB set out that any application to port was subject to its lending policy  and it has 
applied that lending policy when it declined the porting application.
The ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the offer that Mr and Mrs L accepted 
and has been applied in line with it  and TSB is permitted to apply it in these 
circumstances.
I dont consider it was unfair or unreasonable for TSB to either decline the porting application 
or apply the ERC in the individual circumstances of this case. 
In some cases it might be fair and reasonable for a lender to refund an ERC. I know Mr and 
Mrs L will be disappointed, but I dont consider there is anything about their circumstances 
that would lead me to conclude that it would have been fair for TSB to do so in this case. I 
say that as the application of the ERC did not cause them hardship or prevent them going 
ahead with their plans. And it was their choice to carry on with the sale and purchase 
knowing that an ERC would be payable  they could have avoided the ERC. I dont think 
there are compelling or persuasive reasons why TSB should refund the ERC in the 
circumstances of this case.
In my experience it isnt unusual for lenders not to lend on a property where the existing 
owner has only owned it for less than six months. It is for TSB or other lenders to decide 
whether to adopt such a policy or not. In either case, it is not something I would interfere in. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman