DRN-4482055
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the settlement payment Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited
(Admiral) offered when her car was categorised a total loss due to flood damage, under her
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Ss car became stuck in a flood during September 2022. She made a claim to Admiral. It
assessed the damage, determined the car was a total loss and offered a settlement payment
for £11,200. Mrs S says she couldnt buy a replacement similar to her damaged car for this
amount. She also says she had to chase Admiral constantly to progress her claim. She had
to borrow money to buy a lesser specification, higher mileage replacement car because of
the low settlement payment provided.
In its complaint response Admiral says it based its settlement offer on two of the industry
trade guides. The higher of the values obtained was paid to Mrs S. It says it handled the
claim within its expected timeframes, and within nine days of the flood incident. Admiral
didnt think it had done anything wrong regarding Mrs Ss claim. But it did pay £25
compensation for a delay in its complaint response.
Mrs S disagreed with this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator
didnt uphold her complaint. She says the approach taken by Admiral to value Mrs Ss car
was reasonable and in line with the approach our service expects it to take. Mrs S thought
this was unfair and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs 
Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Let me explain.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Ss car was a total loss after it was damaged by a flood. Flood
damage is covered by her policy, so I neednt consider this point further. What Ive looked at
is how Admiral settled the claim.
Mrs S says that Admirals valuation of her car was too low based on advertised for sale
prices shed seen. She says she wasnt able to buy a like-for-like replacement car and had to
settle for a lesser model with higher mileage. She says this still cost more than the
settlement payment Admiral provided.
I understand Mrs S wanted the best offer she could get following the total loss decision. But
having read her policy terms, the policy provides the market value in the case of a total loss.
This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from
industry recognised motor trade guides.
We dont provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer
is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations
from the motor trade guides.
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Admirals settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked
how she arrived at this conclusion. I can see she looked at the trade guide valuation
information Admiral provided. It used the correct make, model, age, and mileage for Mrs Ss
car. It provided two valuations. The lower of the two used the correct loss dated in
September 2022. The higher of the two used a valuation date in November.
Wed usually expect the valuation to be based at the date of the loss. In this case the loss
occurred in September. However, Admiral used the higher valuation for its settlement
payment, which was £11,200.
I obtained two further valuations from the remaining trade guides we use. The valuations
were for £11,693 and £12,332.
Valuing second-hand vehicles isnt an exact science so Id expect there to be a range of
values where different trade guides are used. However, there is a significant difference
between Admirals settlement offer and the higher of the trade guide valuations I obtained.
Ive thought about what other evidence is available to determine what a fair market value is
for Mrs Ss car.
Ive looked at the adverts Mrs S provided, showing similar cars for sale. This includes two
cars of a similar model, age, and specification to the damaged car, albeit one has a larger
engine. These cars are advertised for sale at £12,499 and £12,825. Mrs S supplied another
advert for a car registered two years after hers and the mileage isnt shown. Ive not taken
this into account here given the different age and lack of mileage information.
Given the wide range in trade guide valuations, Im not satisfied that Admiral has offered a
fair market value. Its offer is at the low end of the valuation range. Im not satisfied its been
shown Mrs Ss car reasonably sits at the lower end of this range. Rather the evidence
indicates the higher of the values is a fairer estimate.
Having considered all the evidence, Im more persuaded that a fair market value for Mrs Ss
car is at the higher end of the trade guide valuations Ive seen. Advantage offered £11,200.
But I dont think this fairly reflects the market value of Mrs Ss car at the time of her loss. To
put this right it should pay her a total of £12,332 plus 8% interest on the shortfall between
this and its lower offer. It should calculate this from the date it made its offer until payment is
made.
Ive thought about Mrs Ss comments that she had to chase Admiral constantly to progressher claim. Ive read the claim notes and the copy correspondence provided. Based on this
information Mrs S raised her claim on 6 September 2022. Admiral offered a settlement
payment on 14 September. The records show a payment was made the following day.
Im sorry Mrs Ss car was damaged by the flood she experienced. This mustve been a very
distressing situation for her. In these circumstances we expect an insurer to handle a claim
effectively to avoid unnecessary delay, causing inconvenience and distress. Based on the
evidence Ive seen the claim was handled effectively by Admiral. Mrs Ss vehicle had to be
assessed, the claim validated, and the market value of the car had to be calculated. I
acknowledge Mrs Ss comments about the time taken by Admiral here. But I dont think it
took an excessive time to settle her claim or that Admiral provided a poor standard of
service.
In summary I dont think Admiral treated Mrs S fairly in the settlement payment it offered. It
should pay her a total of £12,332 to settle the claim plus 8% simple interest on the delayed
part of the payment. But I think it did treat her fairly in the standard of service it provided
when handling her claim.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Admiral should:
pay Mrs S a total of £12,332 in settlement of her claim; and
pay 8% simple interest on the difference between its original offer and the final
valuation, calculated from the date it confirmed its settlement payment until the final
payment is made.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs S responded to say that she accepted my provisional findings. 
Admiral responded to say it didnt agree that it should pay the higher of the industry guide 
valuations as stated in my provisional decision. It says adverts are not a fair reflection of 
actual selling prices. It says this is why it uses the two trade guides highlighted in its 
complaint response. Admiral says a fairer outcome would be to use the average of its 
valuations and those I obtained. It says this comes to £11,431. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded by Admirals further comments to change my provisional 
findings. 
As discussed in my provisional decision we use the industry trade guides, in conjunction with 
all other available information when considering if an insurer has paid a fair settlement. Mrs 
S provided examples of cars for sale that were similar to her car. These adverts support the 
value of her car being at the high end of the valuations obtained from the trade guides. 
Ive thought about Admirals suggestion that an average of the trade guides would represent 
a fair settlement figure. But I dont agree. A range of values were obtained using four of the 
trade guides. The adverts showing similar cars priced above the highest of the trade guide 
valuations. So, I think the higher of the trade guide valuations is representative of a fair 
market value here. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
pay Mrs S a total of £12,332 in settlement of her claim; and
pay 8% simple interest on the difference between its original offer and the final
valuation, calculated from the date it confirmed its settlement payment until the final
payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman