DRN-4057402
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) declined to refund £348.17 which 
she lost as the result of a third-party scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 to explain why I thought Miss Ws 
complaint should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else that either party 
wanted to give me prior to reaching a final decision in this case. This is an extract from my 
provisional decision: 
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of
what happened here. But in summary, both parties accept that in October 2021, Miss W fell
victim to a scam when she was selling a sofa on a free classified adverts website.
Miss W decided to sell two sofas, so she listed them on the website. The scammer got in
touch pretending to be a potential buyer. They said they would like to buy the sofas and
agreed on a price of £350. The scammer asked Miss W if she had used the websites door-
to-door courier service before, which Miss W said she hadnt. The scammer sent her a
screen shot that had information about the purported service that included the branding of 
the website, as well as the branding from a courier service which Miss W recognised as
genuine.
Miss W was advised that the courier company would need to verify her account by checking
that she had sufficient funds to cover the purchase price to protect against seller fraud. She
was told this was necessary to ensure the buyer was protected against fraud through the
buyer protection scheme. The scammer sent Miss W a link to a website where she filled out
the requested details which included her card number, the amount of the payment the
buyer was making to her, and the security number on her card. Miss W received a
confirmation request from her Monzo application. Miss W said she assumed this was just
part of the process, so she completed the process. Just under £350 was then debited from
Miss Ws account and sent to an international account. Miss W then realised she had fallen
victim to a scam and contacted Monzo.
Monzo looked into what had happened and declined to refund Miss W. They said she hadnt
taken reasonable steps to protect her account. Miss W said that the scammer had sounded
genuine. She thought the screen shot looked authentic, and so she said she thought she
had a reasonably held belief that she had been using a legitimate service.
Miss W then complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and
recommended that Miss Ws complaint be upheld. He said that he didnt think the payments
were properly authorised by Miss W, so asked that Monzo refund the loss.
Monzo didnt agree. They said that Miss W had authorised the payment, albeit as the result
of a scam, and so they declined to refund the loss. They said she had completed the form
and process for the transaction, and so she had authorised it in line with the relevant
regulations and the terms and conditions of her account. As no agreement could be reached,
the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to reach a different outcome from our investigator. Ill explain
why.
Generally, Monzo can hold Miss W liable for disputed transactions if the evidence suggests
that it is more likely than not that she authorised these payments or gave someone else
consent to make them on her behalf. I am satisfied from Monzos technical evidence that the
payments were properly authenticated  in this case this was done by entering the correct
card details, including the expiry date and CVV on an online form. But the regulations
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Monzo to hold Miss W
liable. So I need to consider whether the evidence suggests that it is more likely than not that
Miss W consented to these transactions being made. Having done so, I think on balance it is
most likely that she did  albeit as the result of a scam. I will explain why.
The relevant regulations to this point are the Payment Service Regulations 2017, which say
that consent to a payment transaction must be given in the form, and in accordance with the
procedure, agreed between the payer and the payment service provider. The concept of
giving consent is a formal one  if the consumer uses the agreed form and procedure for
making payment orders then they have given consent to the execution of the payment
transaction. This is an objective test and does not depend on the consumer, Miss W, being
fully aware of the details of the payment at the time they completed the procedure for giving
consent. Consent in this context is not the same as informed consent  the validity of the
consent to a payment transaction does not depend on the payment transaction being fully
explained to them. The fact a payment takes place as part of a scam does not usually make
the payment unauthorised.
The circumstances of this case are not common  I accept that Miss W did not realise when
she authenticated the payment by entering her card details into the website, that she was or
might be making a payment. It is clear from her testimony and the circumstances
surrounding this complaint, that she thought that she was doing something to safely receive
payment for goods she was selling. And so, the purpose of her entering the details onto the
website being not to send a payment, but to receive one, has required careful consideration.
I do think that regardless of what was understood, she did complete the agreed form and
process on the website the scammer directed her to. She does not dispute being the one
who entered the details required to make the payment. In addition to this, Monzo have
provided the journey she would have taken on their mobile application to confirm and
authorise the payment, and I think this evidence strengthens Monzos argument. The steps
she went through on the application were clearly stated to be about authorising a payment 
not receiving one. Whilst Miss W did not read them, it is enough in accordance with the
relevant regulations that she completed the relevant form and process to authroise the
payments. As outlined above, it is not material whether she understood exactly what she 
was doing  and so I am minded to say in my final decision that this is enough to consider
these payments were authorised by Miss W, and as such that it was fair and reasonable for
Monzo to decline to refund them.
Ive also considered whether there is any other reason that the money lost to the scammer
should be refunded to Miss W  and I do not think there is. The loss is not covered by the
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code). This is
because the lost funds were sent abroad, and the CRM code does not cover internationalpayments. So I do not think Monzo are bound to refund her under the code which they have
agreed to adhere to the principles of.
I also do not think there was anything so unusual or out of character about this payment that
it ought to have meant that Monzo were on notice that Miss W was at risk of fraud or
financial harm. And so I do not think it would have been reasonable for them to have done
more to intervene when she was making the payment, or to have prevented her from making
it altogether.
So, based on everything I have seen so far, I am unlikely to be asking Monzo to refund Miss
Ws losses in my final decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision, based on the available evidence at this time, is that I do not intend
to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo accepted my provisional decision and did not have any further points to add. Miss W 
expressed dissatisfaction with my provisional decision. In summary, she said: 
She took issue with the expiry date and CVC being used as evidence of 
authentication, because the form she filled in had nothing to do with Monzo. She 
thought it was to check she was not a scammer. 
She did not agree that she could consent to a transaction that she did not intend to 
make. 
She had not seen the evidence of the process she would have followed when making 
the payment. She just swiped on her mobile as she thought it was the money coming 
into her account. She truly believed she would receive a credit. 
It seemed unfair that the CRM did not apply as she was not aware she was making 
an international payment  she did not know it was a payment at all. So she feels that 
it is prejudiced against her. 
She did not act with gross negligence or ignore safety advice, she simply did not 
believe she was authorising a payment. 
That I as the ombudsman had agreed with her position previously and so she does 
not understand why this has changed. 
I have thought carefully about what Miss W has said, and it has not changed my view of 
what happened here. I appreciate that this will disappoint Miss W, so I will deal with each 
point in turn.
As I outlined in my provisional decision, authentication is the act of entering her card details 
onto the form  whether she knew what she was doing or not. It does not have to be entered 
into some kind of Monzo related form for authentication to be valid here  it would be the 
same if her card was tapped on a contactless payment machine, or her genuine chip was 
read and PIN entered in a chip and pin machine. I do appreciate that she did not know she was making a payment  but I dont think this is 
the same as not being able to know a payment was taking place. The payment journey with 
Monzo clearly said that she was making a payment  and it cannot be the fault of Monzo that 
she did not read this. 
I appreciate her comments about the CRM code not applying being unfair  but the decision 
not to apply it to international payments was not mine or Monzos, and applies to all 
customers so is not something I can amend in her case. 
I appreciate it must be frustrating because I initially indicated that I was thinking about 
upholding her complaint  but I invited further evidence to be submitted by either party to this 
dispute. And having reviewed Monzos evidence I discovered that Miss W could have known 
she was making a payment, and carried out the agreed form and procedure to authorise the 
transaction. As I said in my provisional decision, this is enough to say she is liable for these 
transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman