DRN-3701411
The complaint
Miss T complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled her 
claim on her contents insurance policy.
References to RSA include the agents it involved in Miss Ts claim.
What happened
Miss T claimed on her contents insurance policy with RSA for smoke damage to her 
contents caused by a fire at a neighbours property.
RSA accepted Miss Ts claim and has been progressing it. But Miss T is unhappy with some 
aspects of RSAs claims handling. In particular, Miss T says:
At first, RSA told her incorrectly her contents policy didnt cover smoke damage.
Initially, she did all her own laundry, including taking items to be dry cleaned when 
she didnt have transport.
RSA didnt tell her how the specialist cleaning company it contracted to clean and 
restore her contents would carry out its work.
RSAs specialist cleaning company didnt pack up all of her clothes for storage  
some were left in her wardrobe in her unheated home for more than six months and 
became mouldy  while other textiles etc were packed up without being cleaned first.
Miss T says she cant begin to describe the impact on her mental well-being of constant 
misinformation, chasing for work to get done, having to argue to have my items replaced at
the value they were bought at and having to dispose of things that I will never be able to 
replace. And Miss T says her life as a freelancer continues to suffer because of the time 
its taken her to deal with the claim.
The investigator who looked at Miss Ts complaint upheld it and recommended RSA pay 
Miss T compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience its incorrect information 
and inaction over her clothing had caused her.
Miss T is disappointed with our investigators findings. She says the compensation he 
recommended doesnt even cover one day at her daily rate as a freelancer. And she says 
there was significant delay and huge inconvenience when her items were all initially packed 
without any cleaning taking place, meaning they had to be sorted through again.
RSA also doesnt agree with our investigators findings. It thinks an award of between £100 
and £150 is more appropriate. RSA says any damage has been (or is being) reviewed as 
part of Miss Ts claim. And it says its ability to handle the claim has been affected by the 
action/inaction of other insurers involved in buildings insurance claims connected to the 
neighbours fire.
So Miss Ts complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint. For the reasons Im about to 
give, I think RSA should pay Miss T compensation of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience some aspects of its claim handling have caused her.
Miss T says after being told initially by RSA that her insurance didnt cover her for smoke 
damage, she started to clean her home herself which meant not only inhaling much of the 
existing soot but taking time to do something that I should be covered for by my insurance 
policy and putting my health at risk in a potentially unsafe building. She says having to deal 
with her smoke-damaged contents herself deal, including taking them to dry cleaning and 
laundry services without any transport, doesnt seem something I should have been doing.
RSA says that, within a day, it acknowledged it had made a mistake in telling Miss T her 
claim wasnt covered. But for that time Miss T experienced considerable stress and was put 
to a lot of extra trouble. So I think its fair and reasonable RSA should compensate Miss T for 
the distress and inconvenience this caused her.
Miss T has also said from the start she didnt know what the procedure was for dealing with 
her smoke damaged contents and that Ive just been unaware of what I should expect at 
every point of this process. From what Ive seen, I think RSA could have managed Miss Ts 
expectations better. As Miss T says, this is her first (and hopefully only) experience of smoke 
damage. And, from what she says, I think Miss T has felt shes had to find her own way 
some of the time. 
So, for example, Miss T is unhappy things like textiles and bedding werent cleaned before 
they were packed up. She says that, many months down the line, she was faced with 
dealing with a number of bin bags full of uncleaned items. But I can see from RSAs internal 
notes that the cleaning company says it wouldnt expect clothing, bedroom curtains, etc, to 
be cleaned until they came back from storage. Miss T also says she didnt get a full 
inventory of her boxed items  but the cleaning company says it wouldnt list cleaned or 
restored items, only those that were beyond economic repair. Miss T says there was a delay 
of some months before items in her wardrobe were packed up and stored  but the cleaning 
company says it wasnt instructed to deal with the wardrobe contents. I think these examples 
show there was a mismatch between what Miss T expected and what the cleaning company 
actually did. And I think if RSA and its agents been clearer with Miss T about what to expect, 
some of the frustration and upset she experienced couldve been avoided. So I think its fair 
and reasonable RSA should compensate Miss T for the distress and inconvenience she was 
caused.
I know Miss T will be disappointed with compensation of £250. Like the investigator who 
looked at Miss Ts complaint, I cant begin to imagine the trauma Miss T has been through 
because of the fire and the damage it caused to her home and the disruption it has caused 
to her life. But, in this complaint, the crucial point is that I can only compensate Miss T for 
RSAs failings  not for the impact on her of the fire itself or the delays of the other insurers 
involved. And Ive also borne in mind that so much of Miss Ts contents were lost or 
damaged. This makes her claim large and complex. And RSA is entitled to assess each lost 
or damaged item, as well as quotes for replacements, etc, to validate it before paying out. 
Inevitably, this is going to be a lengthy and time-consuming process. And, like our 
investigator, Ive been encouraged to see from Miss Ts case file that at the time she brought 
her complaint to us, apart from some textiles Miss T used for business purposes, RSA had 
made payments for all the contents  Miss T had claimed for.In conclusion, I think thereve been some failings by RSA (including its agents) in aspects of 
its handling of  Miss Ts claim, as Ive set out above. And, for the reasons Ive given, I think 
an award of £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused    
Miss T is fair and reasonable.
For the avoidance of doubt, although I havent referred to all the individual issues Miss T has 
raised as part of her overall complaint, I have looked at all of them carefully and taken them 
into account in reaching my conclusions as Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Ts complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay Miss T £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
handling of her claim on her contents insurance policy has caused her.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date we tell it Miss T has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited must pay interest on it at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman