DRN-4423357
The complaint
Miss M and Mr P are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim Miss M made 
on her mortgage protection policy.
What happened
Miss M and Mr P have a mortgage protection policy. It offers cover if a policyholder is 
prevented from working due to an accident or sickness. Miss M had claimed on the policy 
and returned to work. However, she stopped working and made a claim on the policy.
Aviva declined the claim on the basis that they werent persuaded that Miss M had returned 
to work for 90 days in a row between the two claims. Miss M complained but Aviva 
maintained their decision to decline the claim was fair. So, Miss M complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think Avivas decision to decline the claim was unreasonable, based on the available 
evidence. Miss M asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
I asked Aviva to provide me with further information, reminding them of the ombudsmans 
powers in DISP 3.5.8 which allows me to make directions about the issues on which 
evidence is requested, the extent to which evidence should be oral or written and the way in 
which it is presented. Aviva didnt respond to the request for further information.
So, in October 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision to decline the claim
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The key point I need to consider is whether Miss M has provided sufficient evidence 
to demonstrate that she returned to work for 90 days or more, as required by the 
policy terms.
Miss M says she returned to work on 17 November 2018 and spent two days 
practising and building up to going back to work after a prolonged absence from her 
work as a dance and fitness instructor. Aviva says the evidence suggests that she 
returned on 19 November 2018 and has also referred to a medical certificate which 
says Miss M was unfit to work from 16 November 2018 until 6 January 2019.
On balance, Im persuaded that Miss Ms version of events is most likely. Given the 
nature of her work it seems likely shed need to spend some time preparing and 
practising for her return to work. For example, shes explained she spent time 
preparing the format and content of the classes she planned to teach and doing 
associated administrative tasks. I think thats plausible given the nature of her 
business and given how long she had been off work for.
Ive thought about what Aviva has said about the fit note issued for the period of time 
when Miss M was returning to work. Miss M has explained the note was advisory. My 
understanding is that this note was provided towards the end of Miss Ms previous 
claim. I also understand that Miss M was returning to work after a prolonged 
absence. And she was self-employed in a physical and active job. I dont think the 
fact that she worked during the period of the fit note persuades me that she wasnt 
working as she described. Shes provided a lot of other evidence which suggests she 
was. So, I havent found Avivas arguments on this particular point persuasive, 
bearing in mind the facts of this particular complaint.
Ive thought about Avivas arguments that there is no way to verify Miss Ms version 
of events. But, based on the evidence Miss M has provided, I think shes done all she 
reasonably can to demonstrate evidence of the work she was doing. That includes 
providing evidence of the various classes she was running and other business 
activities she was involved in.
Customer service
Miss M has also complained about the delays in handling her complaint. Aviva hasnt 
addressed this within their final response letter and didnt respond to my request for 
more information about their position on this aspect of Miss Ms complaint. Ive 
considered all of the points Miss M has raised about the customer service during her 
claim but Ill only comment on those points which I think are central to the outcome of 
this complaint.
Im aware that Miss M has raised concerns about the service she received from a 
different insurer which caused delays in her making her claim to Aviva. But I cant 
hold Aviva responsible for those delays and any information provided by them.
Miss M made a claim to Aviva in December 2020 but she didnt receive a decision 
about the claim until July 2021. Aviva upheld a complaint about this in July 2021. As 
Miss Ms complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service wasnt made until 
December 2022 I dont think I can consider what happened between December 2020 
and July 2021 as a complaint wasnt brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
within the 6 month time limit.
I can understand why it was then frustrating to be asked for more information in July 
2021 but I do think that was a reasonable request as Aviva had noted the issue with 
the date of Miss Ms first class being 19 November 2018. When Miss M provided 
more information in early August 2021 this was reviewed and referred to the 
underwriters. Mr P had to chase for updates and it took until September for the 
outcome to be communicated to Miss M and Mr P. I understand Aviva also issued a 
final response letter on this point to Miss M in September 2021 and so the 6 month 
time limit Ive referred to above will also apply. So I cant consider those points 
further.
A further appeal was escalated to the underwriter in January 2022, following further 
information being provided. Based on the notes Aviva was having difficulty accessing 
the information sent due to IT issues. Aviva then decided to get more information 
from Miss Ms GP. Its unclear why that was felt necessary at this point in the claims 
journey and why it was necessary to determine whether Miss M had a valid claim as 
the key issue was the days worked. The GP didnt respond until March despite chasers by phone by Aviva. The information was received towards the end of March 
2022 and referred back to the underwriter. Miss M was then told in April 2022 she 
needed to provide information from her counsellors, although again its unclear why 
this was required at this point in time and why it wasnt requested earlier. Aviva then 
declined the claim on the basis of the 90 day period not being met.
I can understand Miss Ms frustration, given that shed first started the claim in 
December 2020. Mr P was dealing with the claim on her behalf as she was finding it 
stressful and upsetting. I do think the claim could have been handled with more 
urgency given the overall customer journey Miss M had experienced since December 
2020. Its also unclear from the information provided why Aviva decided to obtain 
more medical information in 2022, given their reasons for declining the claim.
Im intending to award £500 compensation as I dont think Miss M received good 
customer service and the delays had a considerable impact on her. I think it caused 
her significant distress, worry and upset over a period of several months. She was 
also aware that Mr P was having to chase Aviva and deal with requests for 
information. As Ive outlined above I can only consider the impact of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the issues in this particular complaint. So, Im only 
considering the delays after the final response was issued in September 2021.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct Aviva to put things right by:
Reassessing Miss Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms. The claim 
should be assessed on the basis that Miss M returned to work for 90 days as 
required by the policy terms. The reassessment should take place and be 
communicated to Miss M within 28 days of Aviva being notified that Miss M 
has accepted my final decision
Paying Miss M £500 compensation for the impact of poor customer service.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr P and Miss M accepted my provisional 
decision. However, they did express concern that Aviva might decline the claim for other 
reasons. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there have been no further representations there is no reason for me to reach a different 
conclusion to those Ive outlined above and in my provisional decision. For those reasons I 
uphold Miss M and Mr Ps complaint. 
Putting things right
Aviva needs to put things right by:
Reassessing Miss Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms. The claim 
should be assessed on the basis that Miss M returned to work for 90 days as 
required by the policy terms. The reassessment should take place and be 
communicated to Miss M within 28 days of Aviva being notified that Miss M 
has accepted my final decision.Paying Miss M £500 compensation for the impact of poor customer service
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman