DRN-2329723
The complaint
Mr J complains that a representative of HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly told him that he had to 
take out a life and critical illness insurance policy as a pre-condition of its mortgage offer  in 
2015.
What happened
HSBC rejected Mr Js complaint, saying the documentation made clear that the 
recommendation was purely optional. It was also satisfied that the policy matched the size 
and term of his proposed mortgage and was therefore a suitable recommendation.
It said that it was appropriate for the insurance policy to start from the date it forwarded the 
funds to his solicitor i.e. a week before the house completion.
An investigator agreed with HSBC, and for the same reasons. He felt the evidence indicated 
that the advisor had made clear that the policy was optional; he also felt it was a reasonable 
recommendation designed to protect the specific borrowing about to be undertaken, and that 
Mr J had a need for such cover given his circumstances.
Mr J did not agree. He reiterated that the advisor had told him verbally that the policy was 
compulsory. He also thought it had started a month before HSBC released the funds to his 
solicitor.
HSBC confirmed that the insurance policy had started a week before the house completion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain that my role, and that of this service, is to decide if there is sufficient 
evidence to safely and fairly conclude that a business did something wrong; in this case, that 
an advisor at HSBC told Mr J that he had to take out life insurance in order to be granted the 
mortgage.
There is nothing in the documentation suggesting that HSBC did tell Mr J that this policy was 
a condition of the mortgage. Instead, there are repeated references to this being a 
recommendation. That said, I obviously cannot be certain as to what was said by the advisor 
during the meeting and dont wish to cast aspersions on Mr Js recollections.
But these alone are not sufficient to fairly conclude that the advisor did mislead Mr J, 
particularly as the documentation clearly states otherwise.
I also do not believe the recommendation itself was unsuitable and have seen no evidence 
to suggest the policy was started inappropriately early.
For these reasons, I do not believe there are sufficient grounds to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman