The complaint
Mr W isn't happy with how AXA France IARD ('AXA') has offered to settle his complaint 
about a payment protection insurance ('PPI') policy attached to a store card.
In this case it has been agreed that AXA, as the insurer, take responsibility for the complaint. 
So I'll be referring to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr W took out a PPI policy alongside a store card in 1988. The policy was cancelled in 2007. 
At the time the policy was cancelled, there was an outstanding balance of around £500. 
AXA subsequently sold this debt to a third party.
In 2019, Mr W made a complaint that the PPI policy had been mis-sold. AXA agreed and 
calculated how much it owed Mr W in compensation.
AXA said it didn't have all the statement data for Mr W's store card account. It only held 
statement data from around 2005. But it had computer records about the overall amount 
Mr W was charged for PPI. AXA used this information to try and put Mr W in the financial 
position he'd be in now if he hadn't had PPI on the account.
AXA knew that Mr W paid £337.89 in PPI premiums over the lifetime of the policy and it 
assumed those PPI premiums caused him to be charged £643.97 in card interest. It then 
offered Mr W 8% simple interest per year - to compensate Mr W for the time he was out of 
pocket. This came to £461.83 (after tax).
So, AXA's total offer of compensation to Mr W was £1,443.69.
Mr W wasn't happy with the offer. Mr W says that the offer doesn't take into account that, as 
he was never aware he had PPI, he didn't claim. Mr W also says that he was taken to court 
over the debt - when it turned out that AXA owed him more than he had owed them.
Our adjudicator looked at what AXA had offered and thought its offer was fair.
As Mr W disagreed, and as the matter hasn't been resolved, it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1346350AXA has already agreed to settle Mr W's PPI mis-sale complaint. So I won't be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold. But I would like to add Mr W, in his correspondence with this 
service about his complaint, said he wasn't ever told about PPI and would never have taken 
it out.
I don't know the reasons why AXA upheld Mr W's mis-sale complaint. But it seems to me 
that Mr W didn't know PPI was added and didn't want it and wouldn't have taken it out. If the 
PPI was added, for whatever reason, incorrectly - and Mr W didn't want it, then the remedy 
to right that would be to place Mr W in the position as if the PPI hadn't been added. And this 
is what AXA has offered to do in Mr W's case. All things considered, that seems fair.
Having looked at the amount AXA has offered Mr W as compensation - I think it's fair 
and includes everything I would expect to see. 
our approach to compensation 
When a business agrees to settle a PPI complaint Id expect it to, as far as is possible, put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in now had they not taken the PPI policy. 
As far as is possible is important to highlight here, since theres no way of knowing exactly 
what an account may have looked like if it didn't have PPI attached. But Id expect a 
business to use what information it does have and take a fair approach. Its especially 
difficult in complaints like Mr Ws  where there is very limited information. 
With a PPI policy attached to a store card, Id expect a business to refund any overpayments 
a consumer made on the store card because of PPI (typically PPI premiums and the 
associated interest charged on those PPI premiums), any fees/charges directly caused by 
the PPI and 8% simple interest per year  to compensate a consumer if they have been out 
of pocket. 
the evidence available in this case
AXA doesn't have full information and records (including all statements) about Mr Ws 
account. The store card and PPI policy were taken out a very long time ago and businesses 
aren't expected to keep records indefinitely. But it has basic computer records about his 
account. Ive seen a copy of the computer records and I have no reason to doubt that these 
are genuine.
The basic records AXA has show the account number of the card and some details about 
the PPI policy including the start date (1988). It also knows that Mr Ws PPI policy was 
cancelled in 2007 (presumably due to non-payment) and the account had an 
outstanding balance of around £500. It knows this because AXA has statement data for its 
consumers from August 2005 so it knows what happened to Mr W's account in 2007. 
It's computer records show the Lifetime Premiums Charged and this says £337.89. This 
shows that Mr W was only ever charged £337.89 in PPI premiums. And this could have only 
been between 1988 up to 2007 when AXA has actual statement data showing the policy was 
cancelled - meaning Mr W wasn't charged anything for PPI beyond this point.
the approach AXA has taken using this information
So AXA didnt know how Mr W used his card on a month by month basis. That is to say it 
didn't know exactly what Mr W spent and when  and what he was charged in PPI premiums 
each month over the duration of the policy, or if he was not charged anything at all in some 
months. But it had enough information to be able to work out a fair offer. As AXA knew the total amount Mr W was ever charged in PPI premiums (£337.89) it could 
use this amount to calculate the approximate interest that the PPI premiums attracted 
throughout the lifetime of the policy.
So it calculated that Mr W paid £337.89 in PPI premiums (as it knows he did) and it has 
calculated that Mr W was likely charged £643.97 in card interest because of the PPI 
premiums.
Finally AXA has offered Mr W some additional compensation for the time he has been out of 
pocket of this money.
Overall its offer of compensation is fair and in line with what Id expect to see and as far as 
is possible it puts Mr W in the position as if he had never taken PPI.
Mr W's concerns that he was taken to court 
Mr W says that he was taken to court over the debt when it eventually turned out that AXA 
owed him more than what he owed them. But AXA, in 2007, as there was an outstanding 
amount owed, took the decision to sell the debt to a third party. At that time, it was within its 
rights to do so. And at that time it also wasn't known that PPI had been mis-sold. The mis-
sale complaint was looked into over 10 years later. Also it was presumably the third party 
that ultimately took Mr W to court - but importantly it wasn't AXA. So I can't say AXA has 
done anything wrong.
In 2007, AXA was entitled to sell the debt to a third party, and the amount owed at that time 
was correct and outstanding. 10 years later it was deemed that the policy was mis-sold and 
AXA subsequently offered fair compensation.
From reading Mr W's testimony, I appreciate that he did go through a tough time. But I can't 
reasonably conclude that the PPI policy Mr W was sold in 1988 to protect a store card was 
the sole cause of all of his troubles. It seems to me that there was a culmination of things 
that affected his financial and personal circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, AXA France IARD has calculated Mr Ws offer fairly. And it 
doesn't need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman