DRN-4082161
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (who Ill call BPF) have offered to resolve a claim he made to them under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BPF, but I think the fitting costs suggested by Mr B are reasonable. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Theres no longer a dispute that theres been a breach of contract here as the kitchen has 
been of unsatisfactory quality. The merchant has agreed to allow Mr B to reject the goods 
and to provide a refund, and the credit agreement will be cancelled. Mr B is happy with that 
proposal. However, Mr B will incur costs to fit a new kitchen and whilst theres general 
agreement that these costs will be incurred as a consequence of the merchants breach of 
contract; the parties dont agree about how much the refit will cost.
BPF have offered £2,000 but I dont think thats sufficient. Ive considered the quote provided 
by Mr Bs supplier. They are the supplier who fitted the original kitchen and as Mr B has an 
existing arrangement with them, clearly trusts their workmanship, and has been waiting a 
long time to have this issue resolved, through no fault of his own, I think its fair to use them 
rather than look for alternative quotations.
Mr Bs preferred supplier has been prepared to reduce their quotation to £4,480 + VAT. The 
work will entail the removal of the current kitchen and replacement of the kitchen in the utility 
and kitchen areas. I understand that the merchant has already offered £250 towards the cost 
of removing the kitchen but given the care needed to limit damage, I would agree with Mr B 
that £250 is likely to be insufficient. Ive considered the kitchen plan and the detailed 
breakdown of the work required, that is provided in the quotation. Taking all of those issues 
into account, I dont think the charges are unreasonable.
Putting things right
I think it would limit any inconvenience for Mr B if BPF paid Mr Bs chosen supplier for the 
refit directly.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to pay Mr Bs chosen 
supplier £4,480 + VAT on provision of their invoice to complete the removal and refitting of 
the faulty kitchen.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman