DRN-2302456
The complaint
Miss K says the early settlement figure Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided for her loan was unfair as it was higher than her original loan. 
What happened
Miss K took out a 24-month loan for £5000 on 21 November 2019. The monthly repayments 
were £302.99 and the total amount repayable was £7271.76. 
Miss K contacted 118 118 Money to obtain an early settlement figure for her loan. She was 
given a figure of £5331.01 on 28 January 2020, valid until 25 February 2020. This was 
higher than Miss K expected, and she says the charges were not made clear at the time of 
her application and are unfair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said the loan 
documentation clearly set out the loan was a fixed sum agreement, what the costs were and 
that other products may be more suitable if the borrower requires flexible repayment terms. It 
also explained how interest would be charged in the event of early settlement. He
said that whilst we dont replicate the calculation, he was satisfied 118 118 Money had 
provided a settlement figure that was in line with the terms in the agreement, and taking into 
account the first payment Miss K had made (the second was returned). He couldnt find any 
evidence the lender had treated Miss K unfairly. 
Miss K disagreed, she provided evidence that the direct debit for her second payment was 
taken and asked for evidence to show it was returned. She said it was unfair that the loan 
agreement was not easy to understand and asked how having such a complex calculation 
for early settlement can be fair.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where some of the evidence in contradictory or incomplete (as it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. So, based on the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. 
Having reviewed all the available evidence I have reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
Ive looked at the loan agreement and the two documents Important information about
your loan and Pre-contract credit information that were provided to Miss K before she 
entered into the agreement. Im satisfied that these documents disclosed fairly to Miss K:
the amount of credit, duration of loan, APR, interest rate, total charge for credit, 
interest and total amount repayable; and
the terms applicable in the event of early settlement including that 118 118 Money 
may charge up to 58 days interest on the amount repaid early
I havent found any evidence that shows Miss K was misled about the terms of her loan or 
that the terms were misrepresented to her  including what would happen if she opted to 
settle her loan before the end of its 24-month term.
Miss K says the settlement figure of £5331.01 was unfair and 118 118 Money wouldnt 
explain it to her. She maintains she had made two repayments. Our investigator said he was 
relaying on the loan statement of account which shows that whilst the second direct debit 
was taken, it was later returned unpaid. He said we would need to see Miss Ks full bank 
statement for that period if this wasnt the case, not just the evidence of the payment going 
out. Miss K has not provided this. So based on the evidence I have seen I cant fairly 
conclude that the lenders statement of account is incorrect - and it seems only one loan 
payment was made successfully.
Taking into account the £302.99 repayment made by Miss K, I can see the settlement figure 
was calculated by 118 118 Money as follows:
£7271.76 (amount repayable) - £1637.76 (rebate) - £302.99 (repayment) = £5331.01
It included 58 days interest applicable under the agreement when the loan is settled early. 
Based on the evidence available to me, Im satisfied the settlement figure was calculated 
correctly and in line with the terms in the agreement signed by Miss K. Miss K argues it 
cannot be fair that the underlying calculation is so complex, but as the investigator explained 
the early settlement calculation is not something the lender controls, rather it is set out in 
legislation and standard across the industry.
It follows I do not think there is any action 118 118 Money needs to take.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman