DRN-3296970
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Additions and Additions Active account, that were sold to him in November 2000 and June 
2008 respectively.
Mr G has given a number of reasons why he says the accounts were mis-sold. These 
include that Mr G wanted a large overdraft, but was told the only way he could have one was 
to upgrade his account to a fee-paying account. 
Mr G says that he wasnt offered the choice of fee-free account. He also says he was not 
told he was ineligible for some of the benefits.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that the accounts had 
been mis-sold. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, 
as is the case here, I have to decide what I think most likely happened, based on everything 
that is available. And having considered everything, Ive not seen enough evidence to say 
that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr G has said that he was told that the only way to have an overdraft (or a larger overdraft) 
was by agreeing to have a packaged account. Whereas Barclays says that it has never been 
a requirement to have a packaged bank account to have an overdraft.
Additions account 
When the Additions account was sold, Mr G already had a fee-free account with an 
overdraft. Looking at the ledgers that Barclays has provided, I can see that he had an 
arranged overdraft on his fee-free account since at least January 1998. Therefore, when the 
Additions account was sold to Mr G, Im satisfied that Mr G was aware that he could have an 
overdraft on a fee-free account.
In November 2000 the Additions account cost £6 per month. The main benefit of having the 
account at the time, was that the first £100 of the overdraft facility was interest free. In 
addition to this benefit, having the Additions account also meant the account holder avoided 
having to pay a £5 overdraft usage fee, that was applied to fee-free accounts. 
So by agreeing to the Additions account, it essentially worked out slightly cheaper (than the 
overdraft charges on a fee-free account) for someone who was regularly using an overdraft 
each month. And looking at the account ledgers that Barclays has provided, I can see that 
Mr G was regularly using his overdraft each month before he upgraded to the Additions 
account. 
Although there is little evidence available from the time, I think the overdraft saving was likely 
the main reason why Mr G upgraded to the Additions account  rather than because he 
thought he had no choice but to agree to the upgrade. And I think its likely - being the main 
benefit of the Additions account at the time  that Barclays explained this benefit to him. So 
even if Barclays had given Mr G more information about the account, I doubt he wouldve 
been put off from upgrading to it. So I dont think it was mis-sold.
Additions Active account
Mr G appears to be saying that the Additions Active account sold in June 2008 was mis-sold 
for essentially the same, or at least similar, reasons as the Additions account that had been 
sold in 2000. 
Looking at the evidence that is available, I cant see that there was any change to Mr Gs 
overdraft limit around the time he agreed to the Additions Active account, or even in the year 
after he upgraded. Indeed, Mr G had been able to increase the overdraft limit to £1,500 in 
December 2005 i.e. whilst he held the Additions account  so I think Mr G was aware he 
didnt need to upgrade again to increase his overdraft limit. And I can see his overdraft limit 
stayed at the same level through to at least 2011. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded by Mr Gs argument that he only agreed to the Additions Active 
account because he was led to believe it was the only way he could either have, or to 
increase, his arranged overdraft. On the contrary, one of the benefits of the account was that 
it was interest free on the first £300 of any agreed overdraft and charged a lower rate of 
interest (compared to a fee-free account) on balances overdrawn by more than this amount 
 up to the agreed limit. And looking at the account ledgers, I can see that the account was 
regularly overdrawn. So again, I think its more likely that Mr G agreed to the account for the 
benefits that it provided, rather than because he thought he had no choice but to agree to it.
I also think if Mr G thought he was obliged to have a fee-paying account to have an overdraft 
(but didnt actually want one), then he wouldve stayed on the cheaper Additions account, 
rather than agree to an even more expensive one.
I note that Mr G has also said that he was not told that he was ineligible for some of the 
benefits that were provided by the account. Ive looked at the benefits that were provided 
with Additions Active account in 2008, but as far as I can see, based on what I know about 
Mr Gs circumstances, he was eligible for the benefits. And Ive not seen anything else that 
suggests that the account mayve been mis-sold either.
So overall, having carefully considered Mr Gs testimony alongside all of the available 
evidence, Im unable to conclude that the Additions or Additions Active accounts were mis-
sold.
I appreciate that Mr G may be disappointed by this, but I hope he understands the reasons 
why I have reached this outcome.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman