DRN-1542611
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account called a Platinum account. They paid a monthly fee for the account and in 
return Lloyds provided several potential benefits, including some insurance policies. They 
made a claim on one of the policies and although the insurer paid them some money, they 
dont think it was sufficient. They think that Lloyds should pay them the difference.
What happened
Mrs and Mr A have been customers of Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent us some 
information from its records which shows that:
in November 2010, Mrs and Mr A opened a fee-free account,
In April 2018, Lloyds sold them the Platinum account, which replaced their fee-free 
account and for which it charged them a fee,
at various times, for both the fee-free and the Platinum accounts, Mrs and Mr A also 
held some further optional benefits known as Vantage and Club Lloyds packages.
I believe that Lloyds records about this are probably reliable and I have taken the account 
history to be accurate. 
In April 2018, the main benefits of the Platinum account included travel insurance, use of a 
car breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. While Mrs and Mr A held the 
account, they were due to go on a holiday of a lifetime, for which they had paid well over 
£15,000. Unfortunately, Mrs A was taken ill, and they had to cancel the holiday. They 
claimed on the travel insurance that came with the account. The insurer accepted their claim 
but only paid them £10,000. The insurer said that the policy had a limit of £5,000 per person 
for this type of claim. which is known as a cancellation or curtailment claim, and it wouldnt 
pay any more. 
Mrs and Mr A have said that Lloyds didnt tell them about the limit and so mis-sold them the 
account.
 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold the Platinum account to Mrs and Mr A. The adjudicator didnt recommend that 
Lloyds should pay them any money. Mrs and Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs and Mr A and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why in a moment; but first, I would like to give my 
best wishes to Mrs A after her illness. I hope she is recovering well.
Mrs and Mr As complaint is very specific. They think that Lloyds mis-sold them the account. 
I understand that they may also have made a complaint against the insurer, but in this 
decision, I am only considering the way Lloyds sold them the account. 
In 2018, along with other banks, Lloyds was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two 
ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) 
basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach Lloyds used for Mrs 
and Mr A, I would have expected it to tell them about the accounts costs and benefits fairly 
and clearly and give them a choice; and in an advised sale I would also have expected it to 
check that the account was appropriate for their circumstances. 
On our questionnaire, Mrs and Mr A told us that Lloyds recommended the account to them, 
during a meeting at one of its branches. Lloyds has agreed that it sold the account to them 
through one if its branches but has said that it did so on an information-only basis. There are 
no detailed records from the time, and  I cant tell for sure what happened, but from what Mrs 
and Mr A have told us, Im satisfied that they thought Lloyds was advising them to buy the 
account. So, I have assessed the complaint as a recommended sale.
There is no dispute that Lloyds told Mrs and Mr A about the fees for the account; or that it 
gave them the option to keep their fee-free account. I understand that Mrs and Mr A drove a 
car and owned at least one mobile phone. And they have also told us that they travelled 
quite regularly. So, it seems to me that they probably had a potential need for some of the 
main benefits of the Platinum account and I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend 
that they should buy it. However, the crux of their complaint is that they think that Lloyds 
didnt tell them about the limit on payments for curtailment or cancellation claims. 
I understand that during the meeting Lloyds gave Mrs and Mr A a brochure about the 
Platinum account. called a welcome pack. I have looked at a copy of a welcome pack from 
around the time of the meeting. It was quite lengthy and contained quite a lot of information, 
but in a section called Things you need to know, it described the benefits of the travel 
insurance policy as follows: 
Comprehensive cover including: 
Emergency medical cover (up to £10,000,000) 
Cancellation or curtailment cover (up to £5,000) 
Personal accident cover (up to £30,000) 
Baggage cover (up to £2,500, £500 of which for valuables) 
Travel disruption cover (up to £5,000).. 
I think this sets out the limits quite clearly. I have also looked at a more up-to-date version of 
the welcome pack on Lloyds website and it contains very similar text. 
Lloyds has also sent us a copy of a form which Mr A signed at the time. The form 
summarised the discussion and contained a paragraph which said that Lloyds had 
highlighted the key exclusions, conditions and limitation(but had not).. . covered all 
exclusions, conditions and limitations.(Mrs and Mrs A) should refer to the welcome pack 
for full details.The Platinum account provided quite a wide range of possible benefits, as well as those I 
have already mentioned, so it seems reasonable to me that Lloyds did not cover everything 
during the meeting. Most of the welcome pack described the benefits of the Platinum 
account in positive terms and I think its highly likely that Lloyds raised the importance of 
reading it during the discussion, as well as on the form. After all, it was selling the Platinum 
account to Mrs and Mr A, and it was in its own interests to tell them what they could gain in 
return for their monthly fee. So, it seems to me that Lloyds probably took sufficient steps to 
bring Mrs and Mr As attention to the limits in the travel insurance policy for cancellation or 
curtailment claims. 
Mrs and Mr A have told us that Lloyds sent them various other letters and documents about 
the Platinum account, but none of these mentioned the limit on claims for cancellation or 
curtailment, although some of them mentioned some other limits. I accept this. But I wouldnt 
expect Lloyds to describe everything about all the accounts features in all its 
correspondence. 
So, in summary, I think that it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Platinum 
account to Mrs and Mr A, and Im satisfied that it told them about the accounts costs and 
benefits and that it gave them choice. I also I think it gave them sufficient information about 
the limit on claims for cancellation or curtailment. I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the 
Platinum account to Mrs and Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs and Mr As complaint about 
Lloyds Bank UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to pay them any money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman