DRN-3577044
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about how ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) administered 
their investment accounts.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B say ITI Capital took until September 2020 to get their accounts up and running 
and it shouldve happened in July. They say ITI Capitals service was poor, including delayed 
dividends, phone calls and emails not being answered, shares not showing in the accounts, 
out of date prices and other errors in figures shown. They also say ITI Capital took too long 
to transfer them out to another provider when in September 2020 they decided to leave 
ITI Capital. They have also said this delay meant they lost out from not making trades they 
would otherwise have made.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found, in summary:
Mr and Mrs B requested on 21 August 2020 the withdrawal of cash accumulated in the 
accounts due to dividends in the previous year. They were given to expect withdrawals 
would usually take two to three days. But the cash only came on 2 September 2020 and 
after numerous chaser calls and emails from Mr B. The withdrawal shouldve taken no 
more than three working days from the date of the form, so ITI Capital should pay 
Mr and Mrs B simple interest on the withdrawal sums at the rate of 8% per year from 
27 August 2020 until 2 September 2020.
Transfer requests were made on 7 September 2020 and holdings were transferred out 
for Mr B on 13 November 2020 and for Mrs B on 7 January 2021. Allowing a transfer 
time of six weeks, the time taken to act on the transfer requests was too long. But as 
holdings remained invested throughout, this delay didnt lead to loss. 
In each case a transfer of cash was also made but not until several weeks later. On the 
basis that the stocks shouldnt have taken longer than six weeks to transfer and the cash 
shouldve transferred no later than the stocks, these cash sums should have been 
transferred no more than six weeks from the initial transfer request. So ITI Capital should 
compensate Mr and Mrs B for the loss of use of these cash sums during the delays. It 
should do so in each case by paying Mr and Mrs B simple interest on the transferred 
cash sum at the rate of 8% per year from 19 October 2020 until the date the cash sum 
was actually transferred.
Mrs B intended to sell certain holdings in November 2020 but kept them in order not to 
delay the transfer further, and as she had little faith in ITI Capitals administrative abilities 
at the time. Likewise Mr and Mrs B had cash in the accounts they would have invested 
earlier but did not invest until later due to the delays. But as ITI Capital did not prevent 
Mrs B from selling these holdings or stop Mr and Mrs B investing their cash, ITI Capital 
shouldnt be responsible for compensating Mr and Mrs B for any profits they might have 
made had they made these transactions they didnt make.
Dividends Mr and Mrs B said were paid by a company, Ill call S, on 16 December 2020 
werent paid to the new provider by ITI Capital until 27 January 2021. For their loss of 
use of these sums, ITI Capital should pay Mr and Mrs B simple interest on these sums at 
the rate of 8% per year from the date they were paid by S until the date ITI Capital paid 
them to the new provider. 
The delay in the transfer of shares in a particular company, Ill call M, and the delay 
until September 2021 in Mr and Mrs B receiving, at the new provider, the dividend M 
paid on 28 April 2021, was not due to anything ITI Capital could have changed or should 
compensate Mr and Mrs B for. ITI Capital did all it could to resolve that matter.
ITI Capital should have provided Mr and Mrs B with a better service, for example by 
keeping them better informed. Instead it caused them inconvenience and frustration due 
to its delays. Mr B sent many emails, many of which werent answered. Mr and Mrs B 
were left without proper account access for over a month. In light of this and ITI Capitals 
other failings, ITI Capital should pay Mr and Mrs B £350 each (£700 in total) for the 
inconvenience and distress its failings caused - rather than £275 it had offered. This 
more properly reflected the impact on Mr and Mrs B and took into account the extra 
inconvenience caused to them by ITI Capital since it first made its £275 offer.
We didnt receive anything from ITI Capital in response to the investigators findings.
In their reply, Mr and Mrs B didnt suggest a higher sum for inconvenience and distress. But 
they mentioned in particular the delays with their shares in company M  and the associated 
delay of a payment to each of them of £122.30 in dividends. They thought this was a failing 
of ITI Capital and ought to have been mentioned in the assessment as such. Mr and Mrs B 
say they shouldve received this dividend on 28 April 2021, but it wasnt received by Mrs B 
until 22 September 2021 and by Mr B a week or so later.
In terms of lost profits from trading, Mr and Mrs B said ITI Capital didnt stop Mrs B selling 
certain stocks shed mentioned, but these wouldve been sold sooner had the transfers been 
done sooner. Separately they have pointed out they were unable to sell their holding in M.
We asked for more from ITI Capital relating to the transfer of the shares in M and the 
dividend delay. We didnt receive anything more from ITI Capital in relation to this.
As ITI Capital didnt reply - to our assessment or to our later request for further comment - 
the matter couldnt be resolved informally. So it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at broadly the same conclusions as our investigator, for broadly 
the same reasons.
In brief summary, it is not in dispute that ITI Capital didnt provide the service it ought to have 
provided to Mr and Mrs B. The account when up and running was subject to error and not 
complete until after it shouldve been. The transfer out likewise took much longer than it 
ought to have done. There was also a delay in the payment of dividends.
I have made no award for investments or trades Mr and Mrs B didnt make but might have 
made and profited from if the transfers hadnt been delayed. For such an award, Id want to 
see evidence, of a kind not present here, of specific sales or purchases being attempted but prevented by ITI Capitals failings. Mr and Mrs B have explained that they avoided trying to 
initiate such transactions with ITI Capital in order to avoid the risk of further error and delay. 
Taking everything into account, what Ive seen doesnt persuade me it is fair and reasonable 
here to make an award for profits lost on transactions that werent conducted.
I note what Mr and Mrs B have said about the transfer of M and the delay in Ms dividends. 
So, to briefly summarise that issue here, I note this was the last item outstanding and last to 
be resolved. At the end of January 2021 ITI Capital told Mr and Mrs B documents necessary 
for the stock transfer were being finalised. In March 2021 it referred to lockdown issues as 
the reason for delay. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this a reasonable explanation. They thought what needed to be 
done wouldve been fairly apparent from September 2020 and noted the steps that had been 
promised towards the end of January 2021. It wasnt until later in March 2021 that they were 
told paperwork for the transfer had been sent off. They were told ITI Capital was working on 
resolving the remaining issues, but it wasnt until June 2021 that they were told the transfer 
of the shares could go ahead. The dividend paid in the meantime wasnt received by them 
until September 2021 or so, as noted already above.
The concerns our investigator raised about this matter were left unanswered by ITI Capital. 
Bearing that in mind, I share Mr and Mrs Bs view that ITI Capital did not do all it should have 
done in relation to the transfer of M and, by extension, in relation to the dividend payment by 
M that Mr and Mrs B did not receive until months later. I accept lockdown restrictions and 
sundry problems caused by other parties may have extended the time taken. But, ITI Capital 
having not responded to our request for further comment on its part in this, Ive not seen 
enough to make me think that its part was not significant. My award takes this into account.
That said, in my view the investigators recommended award for inconvenience and distress 
is fair and reasonable in light of the impact on Mr and Mrs B of ITI Capitals failings. I say this 
bearing in mind both that the funds in question were significant for their retirement funding 
and also what they have said about their ages. The point about the emails and the calls they 
had to make is already noted above. I also note what they have told us about Mrs Bs health. 
In my view, with all this in mind, it is apparent the service failings identified have caused 
Mr and Mrs B not only inconvenience and frustration but also anxiety and concern. The £700 
proposed by our investigator is in my view fair and reasonable in all the circumstances here.
So, for the reasons discussed and in light of all Ive said above, I find ITI Capital Limited at 
fault and I think it should put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, ITI Capital Limited should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B simple interest on the cash withdrawals (requested 21 August 2020) 
at the rate of 8% per year from 27 August 2020 until 2 September 2020.
Pay Mr and Mrs B simple interest on each transferred cash sum at the rate of 8% per 
year from 19 October 2020 until the date it was transferred to their new provider.
Pay Mr and Mrs B simple interest on the company S dividends above at the rate of 8% 
per year from the date S paid these (16 December 2020 above) until the date ITI Capital 
paid them to Mr and Mrs Bs new provider (27 January 2021 above).
Pay Mr and Mrs B simple interest on each M dividend sum above (£122.30 each above) 
at the rate of 8% per year from 28 April 2021 until the date it was paid to them.Pay Mr and Mrs B £700 for distress and inconvenience ITI Capitals faults caused them.
If any sum above isnt paid to Mr and Mrs B within one month of ITI Capital Limited receiving 
notification of Mr and Mrs Bs acceptance of my decision, then ITI Capital Limited should pay 
Mr and Mrs B simple interest on the unpaid sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of 
my decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays Mr and Mrs B the unpaid sum.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint and order ITI Capital Limited to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman