DRN-2853831
The complaint
Mr M complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M was given a loan by AvantCredit as follows: 
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
PayableDate 
repaid
Loan 1 01/10/2015 £3,000 36 months £180.22 £6,487.83 17/01/2018
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think 
AvantCredit did sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan and there seemed to 
be errors in the information Avantcredit had recorded it its loan assessment. 
Our adjudicator also said that Mr M had quickly run up debt over a relatively short period, 
including taking advantage of escalating credit card limits. And she felt that Avantcredit 
didnt do enough to ensure that its loan didnt simply add to Mr Ms overall indebtedness.  
So our adjudicator felt that the loan shouldnt have been agreed.
Avantcredit disagreed with our adjudicators opinion and didnt feel that there was any 
information provided during the loan application that suggested the loan was 
unaffordable or unsustainable. In support of its position, it said:
the automatic request sent to loan applicants asking for bank statements was only 
followed up in cases where it felt it needed to review a customers circumstances 
more closely due to suspecting financial difficulties  and it didnt see anything that 
wouldve required it to request Mr Ms bank statements 
Mr M declared an income and expenses which were verified by its credit checks 
Mr Ms credit checks showed that he had opened only 5 accounts within the last 
12 months, which did not reflect dependency on credit, and his accounts 
appeared to be well managed with no account reflecting any defaults or arrears. 
Avantcredit said that it had been around 4 years since Mr M had more than 
1 months arrears showing on any account
it looked like Mr Ms credit card usage had been decreasing over the last 12 
months as he was now using a smaller proportion of his available credit limit 
and that supported his stated loan purpose which was debt consolidation (in 
other words, he planned to pay off other credit to reduce his monthly credit 
expenses)
Mr M made all the loan repayments without any sign of financial difficulty and 
paid the loan 8 months early.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr M.what checks did AvantCredit do before agreeing to lend to Mr M?
AvantCredit asked Mr M for details of his income and monthly expenditure. It used 
industry standard verification checks to validate the information Mr M had provided in 
his application. AvantCredit also carried out some credit checks to find out about 
Mr Ms credit commitments. 
what did the checks show? 
I think our adjudicator was right to point out that the loan assessment information sent to us 
by Avantcredit does appear to show it recorded two different monthly net income figures in 
its notes  and it seems to have made a mistake when adding up his total declared 
expenses. 
But I dont think this makes any overall difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say this 
because it appears that when assessing what Mr M could afford to pay Avantcredit relied on 
the information provided by the credit agencies. This appeared to show that Mr Ms monthly 
income was around £2,175. And the amount of total expenses Mr M had declared (around 
£850) was only slightly higher than the figure of £800 that Avantcredit had recorded 
insufficient to make any significant impact on the affordability assessment it carried out.
Avantcredit said it also verified creditor payments at £363 and worked out that this left 
Mr M with disposable income of £962  and that this would have been more than enough 
to afford the loan repayments of £180.22.
did AvantCredit do proportionate checks? 
AvantCredit saw from its credit checks that Mr M had a total outstanding credit balance of 
more than £20,000 and 5 active accounts.
Whilst thats not excessive in my view, for someone using this type of credit, Mr M was 
now applying for a substantial loan repayable over 3 years. So, like our adjudicator, 
I dont think that the checks AvantCredit did were enough. I think it would have been 
proportionate for AvantCredit do have done more to check the true state of Mr Ms 
finances before agreeing the loan so it could be assured that it had a proper 
understanding of his financial situation and be satisfied that the loan was likely to be 
sustainably affordable for him.
did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
Although I dont think the checks AvantCredit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that isnt a good enough reason for me to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint. In order for 
Mr Ms complaint to succeed, I would need to be able to say that proportionate checks 
would have shown AvantCredit that there was a real risk that Mr M wouldnt be able 
sustainably to afford the repayments. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks 
would likely have shown. 
Mr M has provided us with bank statements, including those covering the period running up 
to him taking out this loan, and his credit file.
I've been able to see details of the bank account into which his salary was paid. Mr M also 
appears to have had another account and transfers from and to this account show on his 
bank statements - but, as far as I can see, Mr M hasnt ever sent us any statements for that 
account. The bank statements dont reveal sufficient adverse information to make me think that 
Avantcredit, had it done a proportionate check, wouldve been likely to find out enough 
information of concern to have made AvantCredit think that its loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr M. 
I say this because although Mr M occasionally slipped into overdraft, this tended to be for 
just a day or so  and the account was generally in credit and being operated within its 
agreed limits. 
I can see from Mr Ms bank statements that, as well as regular payments from his employer, 
he also appears to have received monthly credits from a sporting club in July, August and 
September 2015. So it looks like Mr M had some extra income  I dont know if this was 
mentioned to Avantcredit during the loan application process. The payments from Mr Ms job 
with the employer noted by Avantcredit are broadly in line with the income figure Avantcredit 
verified and used in its affordability calculations.
There are a couple of large payments into the account from a close family member  but 
I dont think that knowing about this shouldve necessarily caused a responsible lender any 
real concern. Ive seen nothing to suggest these were loans  or, if they were, that this was 
money that needed to be repaid along with Mr Ms other debt. Mr M doesnt seem to have 
suggested to Avantcredit that this was additional debt. 
Whilst Mr M had a substantial amount of credit outstanding it looked like he was managing 
this effectively. The credit report hes sent me confirms what Avantcredit saw on its checks - 
no recent defaults or other indicators that hed had any payment problems. Most of his 
outstanding credit (more than £14,000) related to a hire purchase (HP) loan from a company 
that provided vehicle finance  so I think this was most likely a car loan. His other debt 
included credit cards that were at their limit, and an expensive loan as well as a couple of 
mail order accounts (which appear to have had available credit). So a debt consolidation  
loan of £3000 could have offered him a way to clear around half of this other debt.
 
Avantcredit saw from its checks that Mr M had opened a new credit account within the 
previous 3 months. Looking at the credit report Mr M sent to me this appears to have been a 
high cost loan of £300, taken around a month or so before he applied for this loan. But it isnt 
unusual for borrowers applying for high cost credit like this to have other short term loans 
and its not necessarily a reason for a lender to decline a loan application. 
Its possible that AvantCredit had an incomplete understanding of Mr Ms true financial 
situation. 
For instance, I think its fair to say that the improvement in his reliance on credit cards that 
is reflected in Avantcredits credit checks is due to the fact his credit limits were increased 
rather than any reduction in his borrowing on those accounts. But I havent seen enough 
overall to make me think that, even if AvantCredit had sought a fuller picture of Mr Ms 
finances before it agreed to lend to him, it shouldve realised that the loan wasnt 
sustainable for him. 
Even if it had completed the proportionate checks that it ought to have done, it still 
wouldnt have seen enough in my view to prompt it to decline his loan application. 
I think it wouldve still been reasonable to conclude that the loan Avantcredit provided 
looked like it ought to be sustainably affordable for Mr M and that it was fair to lend to 
him  especially bearing in mind that Mr M had told Avantcredit he intended to use the 
loan for debt consolidation.I dont think Avantcredit had any real reason to think that Mr M intended the loan for 
other undeclared purposes. It looks like he may have used the loan at least partly for this 
purpose. Had Mr M used the loan entirely for this purpose then I think he could, for 
example, also have cleared his credit cards and so potentially significantly reduced the 
amount of interest he would otherwise incur on those accounts  particularly bearing in 
mind that he didnt appear to be making any inroads into his credit card debt. This 
means I cant fairly say that Mr M couldnt have benefitted from the loan Avantcredit 
provided (in the event, Mr M later defaulted on these credit card accounts).
So, as things stand, I dont feel that I've seen enough to be able to uphold his irresponsible 
lending complaint. 
has AvantCredit acted unfairly in any other way?  
I havent seen enough to make me think that AvantCredit acted towards Mr M in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not planning to say that AvantCredit needs to 
do anything more than it has done already or pay anything further to Mr M.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M hasnt made any further comments. 
Avantcredit confirmed that it didnt have any additional points to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, and 
as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and I make no award against 
AvantCredit of UK, LLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman