DRN-4506055
The complaint
Mr T complains that Future Wealth Management (FWM) an appointed representative of Pi 
Financial Ltd (Pi), gave him unsuitable advice to switch his pensions to a Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest with a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
What happened
In 2017 Mr T met with an unregulated introducer to FWM who Ill refer to as DG.
DG carried out a fact find to record Mr Ts circumstances at the time, risk profile and 
investment experience. Its recorded that;
Mr T was aged 60, employed and earning around £24,500 a year. He had around 
£500 in savings.
He had an attitude to investment risk of high medium.
Mr T had three personal pensions with L&G. He also had a pension with B&CE 
valued at £755 providing a lump sum benefit of £4,555 at age 60 or £5,423 at age 65.
On 27 October 2017 L&G sent FWM information about the fund values of the pensions Mr T 
held with them. Mr T had a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) pension 
valued at £24,288.56 and a personal pension valued at £45,050.44. Mr T was contributing 
£50 a month to the FSAVC.
A suitability report written on FWM headed paper was produced and sent to Mr T in 
November 2017. It recommended a transfer of his L&G pensions to a SIPP with London & 
Colonial (L&C).
It was not recommended that Mr T transfer his B&CE pension however the recommendation 
report noted Mr T had decided to include the B&CE pension in the transfer.
The report went on to recommend an investment with a DFM  SVS Securities  in their 
Income Model Portfolio.
The suitability report noted Mr T had the following objectives which formed the basis for 
recommending the transfer. These were:
He wished to consolidate all his plans under one arrangement with a wider range of 
investment options.
He wanted greater fund choice and flexibility.
He wanted to be able to leave his funds to his wife in the event of his death.
He was unhappy with the service hed received from his existing scheme and wasnt 
satisfied with the growth of his pensions.
Mr T accepted the recommendation. Application forms for the SIPP and investment were 
submitted and the transfer was completed in November 2017. The amount transferred was 
£69,849.00.
On 19 January 2018, £66,937.24 was transferred to SVS to be invested. 
In July 2019 Mr T made an uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) withdrawal of 
£35,250. SVS Securities was placed in Special Administration on 5 August 2019 and its 
client book was acquired by ITI Capital in June 2020.
Mr T complained to Pi. He said that hed been unsuitably advised by PI to transfer his 
pensions into a SIPP and invest with SVS. He said hed suffered a financial loss as a result.
Pi said neither FWM nor Pi had given the advice Mr T was complaining about. They said the 
evidence demonstrated that the advice was given by the unregulated introducer  DG  and 
as such they said they werent responsible for the impact of that advice. They also said 
Mr Ts losses were as a result of SVSs actions.
Mr T brought his complaint to our Service.
Our investigator looked into things and concluded that the advice was given by Pi. But the 
advice to invest in SVS securities was unsuitable and so, they asked Pi to put things right. 
Pi didnt think our Service had the authority to look into the complaint as they maintained that 
Mr T wasnt their customer regarding the advice he complained about. Pi provided detailed 
submissions in support of their arguments. In summary they said the advice was given solely 
by DG without the knowledge or the authority of FWM. They say DG was acting in an 
unregulated capacity and didnt have any agreement with Pi to provide advice. So, they say 
they arent responsible for this advice that was given by DG.
I sent a provisional decision on this complaint to both parties. In it, I explained that I thought 
Pi were responsible for the advice Mr T was given and so the complaint was in our Services 
jurisdiction. I also thought the advice was unsuitable for Mr Ts circumstances, so I said I 
was minded to uphold the complaint and direct Pi to compensate Mr T. 
Mr T hasnt provided any further submissions for me to consider. 
Pi sent a detailed response to my provisional decision covering several subjects, which Ill 
summarise as;
DG was not authorised by the FCA and was committing fraud by providing 
unregulated advice. DG presented himself to be a chartered financial planner  
deliberately and fraudulently holding himself to be something he wasnt. The advice 
Mr T is complaining about was given by DG and he had never met the adviser at 
FWM who Ill refer to as HY.
Applying Anderson & others v Sense Network Pi was able to appoint DG as an 
introducer to FWM and limit the scope of his activities. As DG acted outside of the 
scope of his agreement, Pi arent responsible for his actions. It was DG who gave 
advice, Mr T isnt a client of Pis and so, this complaint falls outside our Services 
jurisdiction.
HY wasnt in the UK between November 2017 and the end of February 2018. 
Between March and mid-July 2018 HY was also out of the country at various points. Pi believe the transaction occurred due to fraudulent activities of DG and FWMs 
administrator and therefore they arent responsible for the advice given to Mr T.
This complaint relates to a pension transfer and not a pension switch. The 2009 
checklist only applied to pension switches and there are more recent FCA alerts of 
relevance. Such as one in 2014 which says firms must not consider the suitability of 
a pension transfer alone but must also consider the suitability of the underlying 
investment.
Notwithstanding any of the other arguments, the advice given to Mr T was suitable. 
Problems with the investment in SVS could not have been foreseen when the advice 
was given and only arose months afterwards. So, at the time of the advice the 
investment in SVS was suitable. Mr Ts losses stemmed from SVS changing the 
composition of funds in their model portfolios which could not have been foreseen 
when the advice was given to Mr T. 
A SIPP met Mr Ts objectives as he had the willingness to take some risk to achieve 
higher returns. whereas a stakeholder plan, with a default low-risk investment fund 
with limited options wouldnt have. If the FCAs 2014 alert was applied it would have 
demonstrated that the costs were justified by the benefits of transferring. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi have provided a detailed submission in response to my provisional decision which I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in its entirety. 
My decision focuses on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it 
simply reflects the fact that our Service exists as an alternative to the courts to resolve 
complaints with the least formality. So, I trust that Pi will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider are the central issues as a discourtesy. 
Our jurisdiction over this complaint
In deciding whether our Service has jurisdiction to consider this complaint its important to 
note that there are several parties involved. Pi had a professional introducers agreement 
with DG to introduce clients to FWM. Pi separately had an appointed representative 
agreement with FWM.
A complaint falls into our Services jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm 
carrying out regulated activities. This also includes activities for which the firm is responsible 
(including the business of any appointed representative or agent for which the firm have 
accepted responsibility) [DISP 2.3].
Pi have referenced case law in Anderson v Sense Network. Ive considered the application 
of this case in Mr Ts complaint. Specifically, Pi have argued that they were able to limit the 
scope of activities of DG for which they were responsible. And their agreement with him 
meant they werent responsible for any unlawful actions he took. 
Pi say DG acted fraudulently when he supplied clients with a business card stating he was a 
Chartered Financial Planner. The Chartered Insurance Institute (CII) allow their members to 
use certain designations dependant on their qualifications and active membership of the CII. 
It isnt directly linked to individuals being regulated by the FCA. So, DG was able to use the designation of Chartered Financial Planner if he held the relevant qualifications and was an 
active member of the CII. 
A recent search of CIIs database shows DG as holding the designation of Chartered 
Financial Planner. While I cant be certain that was also the case in 2018, I havent seen any 
evidence that persuades me DG wasnt chartered at that time. So, I think its unlikely DG 
was presenting himself as something he wasnt as Pi suggest. DGs business card didnt say 
he was regulated or portray himself as an adviser for FWM or Pi.
Pi also maintain that the evidence shows the advice was given solely by DG who wasnt 
authorised by them to provide advice under their agreement with him or FWM. So, they cant 
be held responsible for the advice given by DG as he was acting outside of his introducers 
agreement.
To be clear, Im not solely looking at the actions of DG and whether his actions went beyond 
the scope of his agreement. It was FWM (and not DG) who were the appointed 
representatives of Pi. Im not intending to hold Pi responsible for the actions of DG. 
FWM had an appointed representative agreement with Pi to provide regulated services to 
consumers. The same principles in Anderson v Sense Network apply here. Pis 
responsibilities over the activities of FWM arent limited to the activities Pi were authorised to 
do, but theyre determined by considering the terms of the contract between Pi and FWM  
the appointed representative agreement. 
Theres been no dispute that Pis agreement with FWM meant they were able to provide 
regulated advice and bring about deals in investments. And so, the ultimate responsibility for 
those regulated activities that FWM performed would fall to Pi. 
My decision, therefore, focuses mainly on the actions of FWM. Thats deliberate, as Im 
looking at whether or not FWM performed any regulated activities for Mr T, under their 
appointed representatives agreement with Pi, which would fall under our Services 
jurisdiction.
Ive listened to Mr Ts testimony in his phone call with Pi in full. Its not disputed by either 
side that Mr T never met or directly spoke with HY. So, I accept that HY never met Mr T or 
spoke directly to him. 
Theres also no dispute that it was DG who met with Mr T and completed the fact-find 
documentation and some of the other paperwork. 
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence before me along with the arguments that Pi 
has made. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely that FWM advised Mr 
T to switch his pensions and brought about the investment into SVS Securities. In the 
circumstances here, there are several things that satisfy me its most likely FWM who 
performed regulated activities for Mr T:
Mr T signed a Client agreement with FWM on 05 October 2017.
A Client Fact Find recorded on FWM headed paper was completed and signed by 
Mr T on 5 October 2017.
Mr T was provided with a Defaqto research report on the proposed SIPP. At the 
footer of each page, it noted Research report prepared by [HY  the director of 
FWM] using Defaqto Engage.Following the fact find, it was FWM that L&G wrote to, providing all the information 
about Mr Ts policies. The figures contained in the letter sent to FWM match those 
later used in the suitability report.
A Pi financial Pension replacement contract form detailing the proposed transfer for 
each of Mr Ts personal pensions to L&C was completed and signed by Mr T on 19 
November 2017.
On 1 December 2017 Mr T received an email from L&C saying We have recently 
received an application for a London & Colonial SIPP, which has been completed 
and submitted on your behalf by Mr [HY] ([HY])@Futurewealthmanagement.com) 
from Pi Financial Limited. HY was also copied into the email on his FWM email 
address.
The welcome letter from L&C notes FWM as being Mr Ts Adviser firm. And notes 
Initial Adviser Charges as 3.25% which is consistent with the client agreement Mr T 
held with FWM.
Both Pi and the SIPP provider have confirmed the initial advice fees were paid to Pi 
who subsequently sent the fees to FWM.
In a letter dated 12 May 2017 a welcome letter from SVS securities noted Upon 
receipt of your application from Future Wealth Management
Given the above evidence, Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities FWM were 
involved in the process of advising Mr T and making the arrangements for the investment in 
SVS.
The suitability letter dated 17 November 2017 clearly showed that advice was given. And Im 
satisfied its most likely HY was aware of the content of this letter and allowed it to be sent in 
his name, even if he didnt draft it himself. I note Pi has questioned the validity of the letter 
and the fact it wasnt signed by HY. But from the evidence Ive detailed above, its clear he, 
in his role at FWM, was involved in what was happening. 
HY was also aware of L&C receiving an application and he was aware he was being paid a 
fee from Mr Ts SIPP.
If HY wasnt aware of Mr T, or the advice hed been given, its likely HY would have 
questioned these emails and the payments received. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
he did that. HY also wouldnt have had cause to be in possession of, and send Pi, the 
suitability report and all the other documentation. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think theres enough to reasonably conclude the recommendation letter was created and 
sent without HYs knowledge.
As well as the individual documents I consider the wider circumstances at play here. 
Specifically, Pi was able to provide our Service with all of the key documents typically 
generated during an advice process. Those include a fact-find, client agreement, suitability 
report and application forms all of which are recorded on FWM or Pi headed paperwork. Its 
difficult to envisage a situation where these would be in Pis possession if it wasnt aware of 
or involved in the advice process. Its notable too that theyd received payment for the 
recommendations recorded in those documents.
My conclusion is therefore, on the balance of probabilities, that FWM gave advice to Mr T 
about the transfer to the SIPP. Im also satisfied that FWM arranged the associated 
investments with SVS Securities. And Pi had allowed FWM to conduct these regulated activities in their agreement with them. So, in summary, regulated activities were carried out 
by FWM that Pi were ultimately aware of and responsible for.
Having concluded that Pi was ultimately responsible for the advice Mr T received, for ease, 
Ill now refer to Pi when talking about the actions of Pi and FWM.
As our Service has the authority to look into Mr Ts complaint, Ive gone on to consider its 
merits.
The suitability of the advice
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is:
Principle 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
Principle 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint is COBS 
9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to a designated 
investment.
The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated businesses like Pi take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and that theyre not 
inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case here, and that any recommendations met the 
requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, Pi needed to gather the necessary information for it to be 
confident that its advice met Mr Ts objectives and was suitable. They also needed to make 
sure he could financially bear the risks of any recommendation made.
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (now FCA) also published a report and checklist for 
pension switching that is still applicable today. That checklist identified four main areas 
where consumers had lost out:
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason.
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could include 
the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) 
or the right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age.
They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded attitude to risk 
(ATR) and personal circumstances.
They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Pi say the 2009 report shouldnt be used in Mr Ts case as his complaint is about a pension 
transfer as opposed to a pension switch. But I disagree. Ill explain why.
A pension transfer is the movement of safeguarded benefits into a flexible arrangement or to 
another scheme with safeguarded benefits. A pension switch is a transaction that is not 
within the definition of a pension transfer, but involves moving pension benefits from one 
scheme to another scheme of that same type. The movement of funds without safeguarded 
benefits from a personal pension to a SIPP would fall into this category.
Pi have referenced an alert sent by the FCA in 2014. The alert outlined firms responsibilities 
to consider the underlying investments when giving pension transfer and pension switching 
advice. While I agree the alert is relevant to Mr Ts complaint, it didnt supersede the 2009 
guidance and Ive considered both in reaching my findings.  
Theres no evidence that the L&G pensions contained any kind of guarantees that were lost 
during the switch to a SIPP. However, the B&CE pension did provide a lump sum benefit 
which was lost during the switch.
Pi may argue that the suitability report says it was not Pis recommendation to transfer the 
B&CE pension. The report later goes on to say You have chosen to invest 100% of your 
pension monies from B&CE and Legal & General. But while Pi may not have recommended 
the transfer of the B&CE pension, Ive seen no evidence they followed any insistent client 
process regarding it.
The recommendation not to transfer the B&CE pension should have explained in detail why 
it wasnt in Mr Ts best interest to do so. And should have allowed for Mr T to digest that 
information before deciding what to do. Instead, the recommendation not to transfer it, and 
Mr Ts decision to proceed anyway are all contained in the same recommendation letter with 
little detail on the reasons why.
The only reason I can see that Mr T would transfer this amount is if he thought he could 
improve on the benefits already offered by B&CE. Had Pi followed an insistent client 
process, Id have expected them to clearly point out that Mr T was giving up a lump sum of 
£5,423 at age 65 and it was highly unlikely the transfer value of £755 would see investment 
returns that meant it exceeded this sum in the five years Mr T had until he was 65.
Had they done so, I think its more likely Mr T would have followed their advice and left his 
pension with B&CE until his 65th birthday when he could receive the maximum lump sum 
benefit from it.
I think some of the other issues highlighted by the regulator were also present in Mr Ts 
switch.
A SIPP is generally suitable for consumers who need access to a range of investments and 
funds not normally available via a basic pension wrapper. Its also typically suitable for 
individuals who need to have their monies managed in a bespoke, or discretionary style. 
Usually, a straight-forward stakeholder or personal pension may be more suitable for 
consumers who have only modest funds and non-complex needs. Thats ordinarily because 
often, although not always, its cheaper for the consumer.
Mr T had modest pension funds of around £69,000. It should have been clear to Pi from the 
fact-finding exercise they carried out that Mr Ts responses indicated he was an 
inexperienced investor with very little other assets on which to rely and someone for whom traditional low-cost pension arrangements would have been more appropriate.
The new SIPP wasnt a low cost or traditional pension arrangement. Given the relatively 
modest funds available to Mr T, its unlikely that he wouldve benefited from or needed the 
services of a DFM especially when that was likely to be a more complex and expensive 
arrangement. I say that because the costs associated with the SIPP were greater than 
Mr Ts existing pensions. 
The ongoing charges associated with Mr Ts L&G pensions were a £3 monthly charge on the 
FSAVC and a £1.50 monthly charge on the personal pension. In contrast the SIPP had an 
initial advice charge of 3.25%, a setup charge of £100, an annual maintenance charge of 
£199, fund charges of 0.75% and ongoing advice charges of 1% per annum. There was 
likely to also be transaction fees from SVS. There isnt any detail recorded about the charges 
of the B&CE pension.
Charges play a very important part when considering whether its in the consumers best 
interest to switch their pension or not. Whilst they cant be viewed in isolation, higher costs 
would generally point towards being a good reason not to move into that pension. So, that 
means thered need to be other, more compelling reasons to justify a switch.
Although there may have been some advantages to taking out a SIPP in the form of greater 
flexibility, Im not persuaded that Mr T, with his modest pension funds and investment 
inexperience, really needed access to a wider range of investments and especially via a 
DFM. Theres also no evidence Mr T was particularly interested in where his funds were 
invested or that he had the knowledge or experience to understand the additional costs of 
the DFM model and the types of investments that would be made on his behalf.
I say that because Ive seen no evidence that Pi really explored what Mr Ts requirements 
were in retirement and how accessing his benefits flexibly would achieve that. This is 
something that Id expect Pi to explore and record information about especially given that 
Mr T was already 60 at the time of the advice.
There could have been good reason to consolidate Mr Ts funds in a plan that allowed him to 
access his funds flexibly. But I think its likely that there would have been cheaper alternative 
options, such as a stakeholder pension or personal pension, that would likely have met his 
needs. I say that because Mr Ts objective seems to have been that he wanted flexibility in 
his investment choices and accessing his funds which could have been achieved in a lower 
costing arrangement. 
Pi dismissed a stakeholder plan in the suitability report saying;
I am recommending a SIPP instead of a Stakeholder/Personal Pension because this is 
more suitable in your circumstances because it offers you a low cost way of managing 
your pension monies, within funds that meet your objectives and are in line with your 
risk profile.
I think this statement is misleading. While the SIPP wrapper in itself may not have been 
prohibitively expensive, Pi were recommending a DFM arrangement which meant the overall 
proposition was likely to be more expensive than a Stakeholder or personal pension.
Pi also failed to explain why a stakeholder or personal pension wouldnt have funds that met 
Mr Ts objectives. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr T sought to invest in 
sophisticated, non-conventional funds that a SIPP would allow access to. Instead, I think 
greater investment fund choice was of limited value to Mr T who had little experience in 
investing in stocks and shares.Pi say that a stakeholder plan would have had a default low-risk strategy. But Mr T had 
sought professional advice from Pi and its likely they could have found a provider with a 
wide range of conventional funds that were in line with Mr Ts risk profile and objectives. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it ought to have been clear to Pi that there was 
no obvious justification for Mr T to move from his existing pension schemes into a more 
complex arrangement in a SIPP and the subsequent investment in a DFM service with SVS. 
Leading to greater charges than his existing schemes or other suitable alternatives.
Pi have raised several arguments about the due diligence theyd completed on SVS and said 
that there were no warning signs of any issues with SVS when the advice was given to Mr T. 
But my findings are that Pi didnt justify the additional expense and complexities of the SIPP 
and DFM arrangement. And they didnt demonstrate how they were acting in Mr Ts best 
interest by recommending them. 
Pi argues that SVSs misadministration caused Mr Ts loss. And its possible that SVSs 
actions also caused or contributed to Mr Ts losses. But I remain of the opinion that the root 
cause of any loss Mr T suffered was Pis advice. This is because without Pis involvement in 
the switch of the pensions and investment in the SIPP, Mr T wouldnt have invested in SVS. 
So, had Pi given Mr T a suitable personal recommendation, Mr T wouldnt have suffered the 
losses that he did, and I consider it fair and reasonable to require them to compensate Mr T 
for his losses in full.
If Pi still believes that the other parties actions contributed to the losses, it can take these 
concerns up directly with them.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Regarding the B&CE Pension, as Mr T is now over the age of 65, Pi should pay him the 
lump sum benefit that would have been available to him at age 65. Pi has recorded this as 
£5,423.
As this would have provided a taxable income, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. So, Pi must make a 
reduction of 20% - assumed to be Mr Ts likely tax rate in retirement.
However, its likely Mr T would have received the lump sum on his 65th birthday, so Pi must 
increase this compensation by 8% from the date of Mr Ts 65th birthday to the date of my 
final decision.
Regarding the L&G pensions, I think Mr T would have invested differently. Its not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr T's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr T would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr T £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him and disruption to his 
retirement plans.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr T a tax deduction certificate 
in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
L&C 
Pension 
(Now 
Options)Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
The calculation must also account for the £755 that wouldnt have been transferred into the 
L&C pension from B&CE by removing its value from the start of the calculation.It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as is likely to be the case 
here.
If there are illiquid assets Pi should take ownership of them by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Pi pays should be included in the actual 
value before compensation is calculated.
If Pi is unable to purchase the illiquid assets the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Pi may require that Mr T provides an undertaking to pay Pi any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan.
Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Pi should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates 
should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
If the L&C Pension (Now Options) only exists because of illiquid assets then it isnt possible 
for Mr T to close it. In order for the L&C Pension (Now Options) to be closed and further fees 
that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive set out above 
how this might be achieved by Pi taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr T 
can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Pi is unable 
to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it pays Mr T 
an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee 
in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to 
arrange for the L&C Pension (Now Options) to be closed.
Why is the benchmark Ive suggested suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does not mean that Mr T 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr T could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Pi Financial Ltd trading as Future Wealth 
Management must calculate and pay compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman