DRN-3910577
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained that Wesleyan Unit Trust Managers Limited mis-sold them 
a whole of life plan in 1999.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld as he didnt find that 
the plan had been mis-sold to Mr S and Mrs S. They appealed. As no agreement has been 
reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
However I am only determining the matters that have been addressed to Wesleyan and to 
which it has had the opportunity to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. 
I should say if theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I 
havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I find is the right outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I recognise that my decision will come as very disappointing news to Mr S and Mrs S. 
However, the issue for me to determine here is whether Wesleyan did anything wrong. I 
dont find it did and Ill explain why that is. 
Mr S and Mrs S took out the policy having taken financial advice from an adviser at 
Wesleyan. Ive carefully considered that advice in order to determine whether it was 
suitable. 
Mr S felt that his pension would provide sufficient cover to meet his financial needs. 
However this alone wouldnt mean that the policy was unsuitable for him as it 
continued for the whole of life. They requested this option on the application form.
Mr S and Mrs S have said the financial adviser indicated that Mr Ss pension alone 
wouldnt be sufficient to support the family in the event of his demise. I can see from 
the application form that the purpose of taking advice was to maintain the familys 
standard of living if either parent were to die prematurely. The adviser noted that a 
specific sum couldnt be agreed because of anticipated financial changes but an 
initial sum assured was agreed. This level of cover was guaranteed for ten years. So 
its clear there was a discussion about family protection and an agreement was 
reached.
Whole of life was selected rather than fixed term and Mr S and Mrs S indicated on 
the application form that they wanted to increase the cover or premium regularly and 
selected the RPI indexation option. Both Mr S and Mrs S signed the declaration on 
the application form confirming that they had read the form, so would have been 
aware of their selection choices.
As indicated, Ive looked carefully at the documentation that Mr and Mrs S were given 
at the time of the sale together with the financial planning report and illustrations that 
were prepared for them. I appreciate that there was a lot of information to take in. But 
Im satisfied that the recommendations were fully explained. I dont find that the 
report contained incorrect advice or unsuitable recommendations. And if Mr S and 
Mrs S were unhappy having reviewed the documentation, there was a cooling off 
period which allowed for a change of mind.
In all the circumstances I dont find that the policy was mis-sold or that Mr S and Mrs S 
were misadvised.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman