DRN-2136063
The complaint
Ms S acquired a new car in September 2018, by hire purchase over 48 months with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). She complains that the car was mis-sold to 
her  its specification was not as agreed by her with the supplying dealership. She wants the 
car to be replaced by a model with the agreed specification.
  
What happened
14 days after taking delivery of her car, Ms S sent a complaint email to the supplying 
dealership, saying:
She had been told by the salesperson involved that her car would have all the 
options, which she understood to include a feature that she specifically wanted
She was never told that this particular feature would not be included
She wanted her car replaced by a model with this particular feature  and her hire 
purchase agreement to be replaced by a new agreement on the same terms, plus a 
reasonable additional charge for the particular feature 
The dealer responded to Ms S within a week, rejecting her complaint and saying:
The cars full, exact and priced specification had been agreed with  and signed off 
by  Ms S, before the handover process
Ms S did not mention the particular feature at any point before or during handover  
and not until five days after taking delivery 
In these circumstances, it would not be fair or reasonable to hold the dealership 
responsible for the absence of this feature from Ms Ss car
In May 2019, Ms S referred her complaint to BMWFS. It responded in July 2019, saying:
It could not comment on undocumented discussions between Ms S and member of 
the dealerships staff  it administered her agreement based on the signed 
documents
The information in these documents included the cars specification, which did not 
include the particular feature of concern to Ms S
In these circumstances, it was unable to uphold her complaint
In February 2020, Ms S referred her complaint to us:
She told us she was assured by the dealer that the car it would be supplying had all 
the features  and the car she test-drove, before signing her hire purchase 
agreement, did have the specific feature she wanted
She also drew attention to the Motor Industry Code of Practice for Vehicle Sales  
which says that, where optional extras are not included in the advertised price, this 
will be made clear
She pointed out that our rules say we will take account of relevant codes of practice  
and, in her view, it was not made clear to her that the specific feature she wanted 
was excluded
Our investigator sought information about the car test-driven by Ms S. But the dealer told 
him that it did not hold such records, and so it was not possible to establish the specification 
of this car.
Our investigator noted that, in order to say goods had been mis-represented, he would have 
to be satisfied there was a false statement of fact made, which induced their acquisition. In 
terms of this complaint:
Although Ms S said she was told her car would have all the options, the dealer 
denied making this statement, and there was no supporting evidence that it was 
made
Although Ms S said she wanted a specific feature, it did not necessarily follow that 
the absence of this feature would have been a crucial factor in deciding whether or 
not she went ahead with the acquisition
The dealer said (albeit without supporting evidence) that Ms S did not mention this 
feature until several days after her car was delivered
So, it is possible that this feature was not a critical factor, and that Ms S could still 
have acquired the car, even if she had known that the did not have the feature
Given the lack of supporting evidence, our investigator was unable to satisfy himself:
Both that Ms S was, in effect, falsely told her car had the specific feature she wanted
And that Ms S would have declined to enter into her hire purchase agreement, if she 
had (correctly) been told her car did not have this feature
In these circumstances, our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. Ms S 
disagreed, and so this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
BMWFS has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding 
to their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances.
Ms S complains that her car does not correspond to its description, as provided to her by the 
supplying dealership. She wanted it to have a specific feature. She says that she test-drove 
a car with this particular feature, and she was told that her car would have all the options. 
But her car does not have this feature, and she wants (in effect) it to be exchanged for a 
model that does have this feature, for which she accepts a reasonable additional charge 
would be made.
The dealer says that it never told Ms S that her car would have this particular feature  and 
that Ms S never mentioned this feature until several days after the car was delivered to her. 
These versions of events are significantly different  and both Ms S and the dealer are 
unable to corroborate their versions. The only hard evidence is a document signed by Ms S, 
which contains a comprehensive (priced) list of her cars features, but which does not 
include the particular feature. How crucial was the feature of concern to Ms Ss decision to acquire her car?
I note that, despite being unable to obtain support from the dealer, BMWFS or our 
investigator, Ms S has continued to pursue her complaint. This might imply that the feature 
of concern to her was a critical factor in her acquisition decision. 
But this implication is inconsistent with the evidence that Ms S signed a document listing her 
cars features, excluding the feature of concern. And so, on balance, I am unable to find that 
this feature was a crucial factor in deciding whether or not Ms S went ahead with the 
acquisition of her car.
Did the dealer comply with the relevant code of practice?
Ms S argues that the dealer failed to comply with the relevant code of practice, because it 
did not make clear which optional extras were excluded from the priced list of features. 
I think the code of practice is seeking to avoid mis-representation where some optional 
extras are available, but not at an advertised price. The codes intention is to ensure that, 
where a car is advertised at a given price, and optional extras (for which charges apply, that 
are excluded from the advertised price) are offered, every dealer makes clear that the 
advertised price does not include these extras. 
Ms Ss supplying dealership provided to her a list of features, some of which were standard 
options (included in her cars basic price), and others for which additional charges applied. 
All these charges were totalled into her cars on the road price. I think this is in line with the 
code  and so I am unable to find (as Ms S argues) that the dealer failed to comply.
Did the dealer falsely tell Ms S that her car included the feature of concern?
I understand that the feature wanted by Ms S would have been subject to an additional 
charge. The list referred to in the previous paragraph excludes this feature, and we have 
received no alternative information indicating the dealer informed Ms S that her car would 
include it.  
And so, on balance, I am unable to find that the dealer falsely told Ms S that her car would 
include this feature.
Conclusion
I have been unable to answer in Ms Ss favour any of the above questions, which means 
that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman