DRN-3831071
The complaint
Mrs G complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to let her withdraw all the money 
which she believed she had in her account.
What happened
On 4 March 2022, Barclays wrote to Mrs G. It said it continually monitored accounts, and 
had identified some recent activity on Mrs Gs account which it needed to review. While it did 
this, Mrs G wouldnt be able to access her account, in line with the terms and conditions.
Barclays letter listed five incoming credits from 8 December 2021 to 30 December 2021. It 
needed Mrs G to complete a form which asked a number of questions. These included 
questions about why Mrs G had received the credits, and whether she knew the person 
whod sent the funds and if so how she knew the person. It also asked whether shed 
transferred any of these credits to another account, and if so, who shed sent them to and 
why.
On 18 March, Barclays wrote again to Mrs G. It said that after careful consideration it had 
taken the decision to close all Mrs Gs accounts with immediate effect. 
Barclays said it had closed her accounts in accordance with the terms and conditions. It 
referred Mrs G to section 11, page 37 of the Retail Customer Agreement, but said it was 
unable to give further reasons why it had made the decision. Barclays also told Mrs G that if 
she needed a bank account, shed need to make other banking arrangements with another 
bank or financial institution, because Barclays wouldnt offer her any future banking services.
Mrs G contacted Barclays and asked how she could access the money in her frozen 
accounts. Barclays told her that it needed the information on the form it had sent her, 
providing proof about the source of money which had come into her account. Mrs G said 
there was £544 in her account which she wanted to take out.
Mrs G went to a branch with identification, but was only allowed to withdraw £44.77 from her 
closed account. Barclays said it would not pay her the other £500. Mrs G complained, but 
Barclays didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs G complained to this service. She said her accounts had been closed as she 
supposedly didnt run her account within the rules of the account. She said shed spoken to 
the local branch but was just told she could only have £44.77 and not the full amount. Mrs G 
said she had medical conditions, and the issue had made her illness worse. She said she 
wanted a written apology, her money returned immediately, and compensation for the upset.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. She said that the terms and conditions of 
the account say that in certain circumstances, Barclays could close an account immediately. 
She said that she couldnt disclose why Barclays had come to that decision, but there was 
only £44.77 for Mrs G to withdraw. When Mrs G didnt agree, a second investigator looked at 
the case, but came to the same conclusion and didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Mrs G wasnt satisfied. She said she wanted to have the evidence which Barclays had 
submitted to this service, because she hadnt received anything from Barclays. She said all 
shed been told was that shed used her account fraudulently, but all Barclays had asked her 
for was proof of where the money came from. She said shed sent proof that the money had 
come from the sale of her last property. Shed gone to the branch and had been given 
£44.77 but not her £500. Mrs G said that she wanted to see what Barclays had sent us. She 
wanted to know what proof they held on her, because it was her savings and she didnt think 
banks had a right to take your money for themselves.
As Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator, her case was referred to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Barclays letter telling Mrs G that it was closing her accounts with immediate effect, it 
referred her to section 11, page 37 of its Retail Customer Agreement. This says:
 When we can take money out of your account
Rarely, a payment comes into your account but the paying bank realises it was made 
fraudulently. Or it may be that the person paying it doesnt have enough money. If this 
happens, we can take the money back out of your account. If we have a legal duty to do so, 
we can send money from your account to a government regulatory body such as HM 
Revenue and Customs. We can only do this if the organisation asking us has the legal 
power.
Having considered the evidence, I find that Barclays had the authority to act as it did when it 
didnt allow Mrs G to withdraw the full amount of the balance and when it closed her account 
with immediate effect. I realise that this will have had an impact on Mrs G given what shes 
told us about her circumstances  but Barclays has acted within the terms of her account 
and fairly in the circumstances here.
When Mrs G asked to withdraw £500, Barclays explained that all that was available and due 
to her was £44.77. I asked Barclays why it had refunded this amount to Mrs G. It replied that 
this amount wasnt connected with funds she had received and which it was concerned 
about. So I think it was fair that Barclays only gave her access to the funds it did here. 
Mrs G has asked us to send her the evidence Barclays provided to us. Our investigator has 
explained that we cant share this with Mrs G where Barclays has asked us to keep this 
confidential and its entitled to do that here. But Ive carefully considered this alongside what 
Mrs G has told and sent us.
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Belinda KnightOmbudsman