DRN-4251157
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about a legal expenses insurance policy he purchased from Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited (Hastings).
Mr E says the policy was mis-sold.
In this complaint Mr E is assisted by a representative but for ease of reference I shall refer to 
all submissions made as being Mr Es own.
What happened
Mr E took out a legal expenses insurance policy with Hastings alongside his home insurance 
policy. The insurance was sold through a price comparison website.
When he came to claim on the policy for a dispute with his employer, Mr E found it wasnt 
covered. The policy exclusion they applied was:
Theres no cover for:
Costs if your claim is part of a class action, will be affected by, or will affect the outcome of 
other claims
As a result, he pursued a separate complaint to this Service against the insurer which was 
decided by another Ombudsman. That Ombudsman said the insurer was entitled to rely on 
the policy terms in turning down Mr Es claim.
The subject of this complaint concerns the sale of the legal expenses insurance policy. Mr E 
says that it wasnt of use to him because he couldnt claim on it when he needed it. As a 
result, he feels the policy was mis-sold. 
Our investigator considered Mr Es complaint and concluded that it hadnt been mis-sold. Mr 
E doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Es complaint for broadly the same reasons set out 
by the investigator. Ive explained why below.
In this complaint, Mr E has made a number of submissions, but not all of them are relevant 
to this specific complaint. As such I will only be addressing the points that relate to the mis-
sale of the policy. No disrespect is intended to Mr E in this regard. It simply represents the 
informal nature of this Service.
The policy was sold through a price comparison website on a non-advised basis. That 
means Hastings had to give Mr E enough information to allow him to decide whether to take 
the insurance out, but it was up to Mr E to satisfy himself that it was suitable for his own 
needs and circumstances. 
Having reviewed the screen Mr E would have been presented during the sales process, I 
think he was given access to some information about the policy. Thats because a number of 
policies were suggested to him. And when he called Hastings to query key cover the same 
day, he told the agent he had made up his mind about the cover he wanted to buy based on 
the information hed seen.
I cant tell the exact detail of that information or whether he had access to the policy wording 
in full before he took it out. But I dont think that matters. Even if I decide that the information 
wasnt made clear to Mr E before he took the cover out, I also need to be satisfied that he 
would have done something differently like not taken it out at all or gone elsewhere for cover, 
had he known about the policy exclusion applied to his employment claim later on in the 
policy year.
Mr E has said that he wanted employment cover in place because hed previously made a 
claim against an employer. But looking at the policy he took out, Im satisfied thats what he 
got when taking out this specific policy. The exclusion applied to his subsequent claim wasnt 
specifically in relation to employment claims; it was a general exclusion applicable to all 
aspects of the legal cover. The fact that the claim he made was one that was thought to 
affect the outcome of other claims is unfortunate. But Ive seen nothing that supports that Mr 
E might have anticipated any future employment claims he might make would be affected by 
this exclusion, such that he would decide not to take the policy out. In addition, the exclusion 
noted in the policy is quite common in legal expenses insurance policies. So, theres a good 
chance it would have featured in a different policy had he have gone elsewhere in any event.
Mr E has said there were other policies on the market that didnt include the exclusion 
applied to his employment claim and that he could have selected a policy like this if hed 
been aware of it before taking out the cover. To be persuaded by this argument Id need to 
be satisfied that Mr E had some reason to think this exclusion could be applicable to future 
claims he might make- like for example a claims decision on a different claim that was 
affected by it- such that it would cause him to look for an alternative policy that didnt include 
it.
I note that he has made the point that he didnt understand the exclusion in any event and 
that its construction was unclear. I dont intend to revisit the issue of how that exclusion was 
applied and why- that matter was dealt with by another Ombudsman in detail in Mr Es 
complaint against the underwriter of the policy. Even if that was the case, Id have to accept 
that Mr E would have done something differently and not taken the cover out and/gone 
elsewhere for an alternative policy, had he understood it and the implication of it.  For the 
reasons Ive already set out, Im not persuaded this would have been the case.
Mr E has made submissions in relation to rights of access to the courts. Whilst I understand 
the points made, I dont consider this to have any bearing on the question of whether this 
policy was mis-sold. If its right that Mr E intended to take out a policy that covered legal 
costs for employment disputes then that is what he got, subject to the policys terms and 
conditions. As such Im satisfied that Hastings didnt do anything wrong.
Finally, Ive noted all of Mr Es submissions about the exclusion relied on by his insurer to 
turn down the claim being unfair and the reasons for this. I dont need to determine this point 
or draw any conclusions from it. Thats because I take the view that even if Mr E had had his 
attention drawn to this term, he wouldnt have done anything differently and decided not to 
take out cover for the reasons set out above. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against Hastings Insurance Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman