DRN-4172865
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) havent 
refunded all the money it lost in a scam.  
Mr B, who is a director of R, brings this complaint on Rs behalf. 
What happened
R was incorporated in 2019 to buy and let properties. In March/April 2021 Mr B decided to 
look into buying properties. Through a friend of a close friend, Mr B was introduced to 
someone Ill refer to in this decision as M. He says that he met M and M explained in detail 
his business model. M said he worked with an asset management company which dealt with 
residential repossession asset management to find buyers for the properties. Mr B checked 
the asset management company and found it was legitimate. M also showed Mr B 
correspondence with the asset management company and with solicitors, his online banking 
and P60 document, as well as addresses of properties he had bought previously. 
M then showed Mr B details of some local properties being bought by the asset 
management company. Mr B initially decided to go ahead with buying two properties and on 
10 May 2021 made two payments of £10,000 which represented 15% of the purchase price 
of each property. He later decided to buy two more properties. Mr B saw the second two 
properties from the outside, but M told him it wasnt possible to see inside because there 
were tenants. The price of these properties was reduced as a result. 
After Mr B had made the first two payments M introduced him to a mortgage advisor. Mr B 
exchanged messages with this mortgage advisor from 12 May 2021. Some of the chat was 
about instructing solicitors to act on Mr Bs behalf. I understand Mr B chose the solicitor and 
the mortgage advisor claimed to communicate with the solicitor on Mr Bs behalf. Mr B has 
also said he was copied into emails with the solicitor, but Ive not seen them, and he now 
knows they were fake. 
Mr Bs friend was buying a house through M. M told Mr B his account had been restricted 
and asked Mr B for a loan of £20,000. If Mr B didnt loan this money, M said Mr Bs friend 
wouldnt get his house and the purchase of the other properties wouldnt go ahead. Mr B felt 
he had no choice about providing this loan.   
Mr B made the following transactions from Rs account:
Date Amount
10/05/21 £15,000
10/05/21 £15,000
04/06/21 £18,000
07/07/21 £18,750
26/09/21 £20,000
Total £86,750
Mr B and M agreed completion dates but they were all delayed and Mr B was given various 
excuses. In around December 2021 Mr B called the solicitor he believed to be acting for him 
and was told she hadnt received instructions and hadnt been in contact with M or the 
mortgage advisor. Mr B then contacted the company he thought was arranging the 
mortgages. Again, Mr B was told they had no records and no mortgages had been approved 
for him. Mr B then realised M and the mortgage advisor were scammers. He reported the 
scam to Lloyds on 30 May 2022. 
Lloyds considered Mr Bs complaint under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse victims of 
scams in most circumstances. Lloyds refunded 50% of Rs loss as the transactions were 
unusual but said that Mr B, on behalf of R, should have completed more checks before 
making the payments. For example, Mr B could have verified the person he was dealing with 
and verified the paperwork he was shown. And the fact that Mr B wasnt shown the inside of 
the properties should have been a red flag that something wasnt right. Lloyds tried to 
recover Rs funds but was unable to do so. 
Our investigation so far
R has received a refund of some of the last two payments plus interest from the bank that 
received the scam funds. 
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
Mr B, on behalf of R, didnt have a reasonable basis for believing M was providing a 
legitimate service and so she didnt recommend that Lloyds paying anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me. In summary, he said Lloyds should refund all the funds 
he lost in the scam for the following reasons:
- Mr B was referred to M by someone who was a trusted friend and experienced 
property developer who had worked in the industry for many years and had previous 
profitable dealings with the scammer. 
- M was very professional and knowledgeable in all his dealings with Mr B. He clearly 
explained the business model to Mr B and proved the profitability and efficiency of 
the business by showing Mr B documents. The scammer shared documents relating 
to previous property sales, correspondence from clients and associated companies 
(including an asset management company and a mortgage company), his online 
banking records and personal identification documents. 
- Mr B completed checks in respect of the asset management and mortgage 
companies.
- M acted as a facilitator for the whole process and said he engaged with various 
companies on Mr Bs behalf. This was why his emails said consultant and funds 
were paid to Ms personal account. 
- Mr B wasnt purchasing properties in the standard way as homes were being 
repossessed by an asset management company and he was paying a deposit and to 
get mortgages.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have reimbursed R under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect R from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Theres no dispute here that Mr B was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for R to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Under the CRM 
Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Lloyds has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Mr B made are enough to support its position 
that it may rely on an exception to reimbursement in the CRM Code. I dont think he had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine services or that the person he 
transacted with was legitimate and will explain why. I should also say that its the 
combination of these factors that lead me to reach this conclusion. 
- M acted in a personal capacity and didnt provide a company name, although he and 
the mortgage advisor referred to many other clients. But Mr Bs representatives have 
said that documentation shown to Mr B proved M had a well-established and highly 
functioning business. I think the fact M didnt offer a business name ought reasonably 
to have caused Mr B concern. If a business name had been provided Mr B could 
have researched the company. 
- M sent emails confirming receipt of Rs funds, which I have seen. None of these 
emails provide contact details as would be expected and the emails arent from a 
company. 
- Other than the emails referred to above, M communicated with Mr B via a messaging 
app. This isnt what Id expect of a well-established and successful property investor.
- No formal agreement was made and signed to set out the details of the terms agreed 
between Mr B and M. Given the amounts involved, I dont consider it was reasonable 
for Mr B to rely solely on documents and information he says M showed him when 
they first met. And no other documentation was shared with Mr B as the property 
purchases were supposed to be taking place. 
- Payments were made to an account in Ms name trading as MK PR rather than to a 
firm of solicitors. And payment was made up front, without any supporting 
documentation. I recognise Mr B didnt have experience of buying properties from an 
asset management company, but consider this arrangement was unusual. 
- M provided Mr B with details of a mortgage broker/financial advisor and Mr B 
communicated with him quite extensively. Although the name of a company was 
mentioned, there was nothing to link the advisor to that company and Mr B didnt 
receive documents from the company as Id expect. The email address of the advisor 
also didnt relate to the name of the firm Mr B was told the advisor was from. 
- Mr B was told that all four mortgages were approved, and all the surveys were fine 
but didnt receive, or ask for, any evidence. The advisor also communicated with Mr 
B via a messaging app, which isnt what Id expect of a legitimate financial advisor.
- Mr B decided to buy two further properties without seeing any evidence that the first 
two sales had progressed. 
- Mr B thought solicitors had been instructed on his behalf by the advisor. Solicitors 
can only take instructions from a client or someone with legal authority to represent 
someone. When taking on a client a solicitor agrees a fee for their work and there is 
documentation to sign. None of this happened here and I consider this ought 
reasonably to have led Mr B to take additional steps. - Mr B provided a loan to M from Rs account with Lloyds. Being asked for a loan in 
these circumstances isnt what Id expect of someone carrying out a legitimate 
service and I think the threatened consequences should have concerned Mr B. The 
rate of return on this loan was also far too good to be true. At the end of September 
2021 Mr B was told that by 1 November 2021 hed receive his £20,000 back plus 
£10,000 interest. 
Taking all these points into account, Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably in relying on an 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Lloyds did enough to recover Rs funds. Lloyds contacted 
the bank that received Rs funds the same day the scam was reported but was advised that 
no funds remain. In the circumstances, I dont consider there was anything more Lloyds 
could have done. Fraudsters usually remove funds quickly and in this case the scam was 
reported six months after the first payment was made.
I recognise this scam has had a substantial impact on Mr Bs business and on him 
personally, but cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund anything more than the amount already 
returned to R. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman