DRN-1844216
The complaint
Mrs M complains about a claim made against her under her motor insurance policy she 
has with Calpe Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
On 17 April 2020 I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint. In summary, I 
thought that Mrs M  needed to pay for the damage that was caused to the third-party vehicle. 
But I thought that Calpe ought to revise the amount that Mrs M needed to pay. 
The background to this complaint, as detailed in my provisional decision is as follows: 
"In July 2019, Calpe received notification that Mrs Ms car had been in a collision. 
The allegations were that Mrs M collided with a car while changing lanes and caused 
damage to the third-party car.
The third-party have stated that Mrs M didnt stop at the scene and that it had to follow her 
to get her registration plate information, car make and model.
Calpe approached Mrs M about the incident. Initially, Mrs M said that she hadnt 
been involved in a collision at all and that she had no recollection of being in the location of 
the incident on that day. Mrs M later states that she remembered the incident but doesnt 
think she collided with the third-party car. She says she remembers some impact and thinks 
she might have hit the curb.
Calpe sent an engineer to inspect Mrs Ms vehicle. It also received a report from the third-
party insurer. Based on this information, it decided that Mrs M was at fault for the collision 
and settled the claim.
Mrs M has a policy excess of £3,000. Calpe paid £1917.68 to settle the claim and so it 
has said that that is what Mrs M needs to pay. It told her that if she didnt pay this amount 
then it would cancel her policy.
Mrs M doesnt agree that she should have to pay. She says she doesnt believe she was 
at fault for the collision  this is because the third-party car was behind her at the time, and 
so she says that the third party is at fault because it collided with her. Mrs M also still 
maintains that she doesnt recall a collision happening. Because of this, she doesnt feel she 
should have to pay for the repairs.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs M. He thought that based on what hed 
seen, Calpe had acted fairly when dealing with Mrs Ms claim. And that it hadnt done 
anything wrong.
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator. She maintains that she isnt responsible for 
the claim. Because Mrs M didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me to decide on 
the matter."Calpe responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with the provisional 
decision. Mrs M didn't respond with any more information for me to take into account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Calpe agreed with my provisional decision, and Mrs M didn't respond with any 
additional points for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings, I 
have copied these below. 
"Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. But I think that Calpe needs to revise the amount that Mrs M 
needs to pay to settle the claim. Ill explain my reasons below.
It isnt my role to determine who was liable for the damage caused to the third-party car; 
that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding is whether Calpe has acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with 
the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that Calpe can take over the settlement of 
the claim. So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That might mean Calpe 
makes a decision Mrs M disagrees with, as has happened here.
Its difficult to know what happened based on what Mrs M has told us. Initially she told 
Calpe she wasnt involved in the collision, she then said she remembers impact to the car 
but thought this was the curb. And shes then said that she wasnt at fault because the 
third party collided with her. Based on these differing testimonies, I dont think Mrs M can 
be certain about what happened.
Ive seen photos of the third-party car which shows there is damage. Because Mrs M 
didnt stop at the incident, the third party has said that they followed Mrs M in order to get 
her registration number. Mrs M has also said she remembers being at the same location as 
the incident on the day. With these things in mind, I think Calpe did enough to determine 
that there was a collision involving Mrs M, and damage was caused to the third partys car 
as a result of the collision.
I need to now be satisfied that Calpe have done enough to investigate what happened 
and assessed the fairest way to settle the claim.
Calpe has sent us two different reports to show how it assessed the claim. The first 
report Ive seen is the assessment of the damage to Mrs Ms car. Mrs M tells us that the 
engineer agreed that there wasnt any damage to the car that could have been caused by 
the collision. Looking at the report, I dont think it says this. The report suggests that Mrs Ms 
car was in a poor condition, and that it had pre-existing damage. The report says that 
because of this, its difficult to be able to identify what damage, if any, might have been 
caused by the collision without further information about the incident itself.
The second report is from an independent assessor. This report suggests the damage to 
the third partys car is consistent with the third-partys account of what happened. It also 
says that its possible that the damage to Mrs Ms car could be minimal to non-existent. I can see that Mrs M explained to Calpe that the third-party driver must have been 
driving too fast as she checked her mirrors before changing lanes and she didnt see the car 
at this point. Calpe have stated that there arent any speed cameras in that area and so it 
cant fairly say that this was the cause of the collision. Generally, it is difficult to establish 
what speed someone was driving at. And Mrs Ms varying account of what happened 
undermines what shes said about the other drivers speed. Because of this, I think Calpe 
have acted fairly in saying they cant conclude that the cause of the collision was the third 
party was driving too fast.
Based on the information Calpe have collated about the incident, I think it has 
fairly assessed the claim. And so, I agree that Mrs M needs to pay what is outstanding for 
costs incurred to the third party.
Calpe has said that Mrs M owes £1,917.68 in total. I agree that Mrs M should pay for 
the costs incurred to the third party, which total £1,725.68. But Calpe has also added 
charges for claims investigation and vehicle inspection. While I dont doubt that these are 
fees incurred by Calpe, these costs relate to their investigation of the claim. I dont think its 
fair to ask Mrs M to pay for the costs Calpe incurred in providing insurance, and so I think 
Mrs M should pay £1,725.68.
Mrs M has also stated that she doesnt want Calpe to cancel her policy. Calpe said it 
would do this if Mrs M didnt pay the excess due. Calpe say it hasnt yet cancelled Mrs Ms 
policy. And I dont think it would be fair for it to do this if Mrs M is still paying the premiums. 
So Calpe should continue to provide Mrs M insurance, while she continues to pay for it.
Mrs M will need to pay Calpe what she owes for the repairs. But If Mrs M cant pay in 
full, Calpe will need to communicate with Mrs M to agree a fair and reasonable repayment 
plan."
Putting things right
Calpe should revise the amount Mrs M needs to pay for the damage to the third-party 
vehicle to £1,725.68. If Mrs M can't pay the full outstanding balance in one payment, 
then Calpe will need to communicate with Mrs M to agree a fair and reasonable repayment 
plan.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that Caple Insurance Company Limited needs 
to revise the amount Mrs M has to pay in respect of damage caused to the third-party 
vehicle to £1,725.68. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman