DRN-1890913
 
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs P are unhappy with an offer made by Barclays Bank UK PLC to put right a 
mistake from 2011 when their preferential rate ended early. The rate was due to end in 
October 2011 but ended in August 2011 instead.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons.
The preferential rate Mr S and Mrs P took out in 2008 was a fixed rate of 5.69%, and once 
the fixed rate period ended it moved to Barclays base rate plus 0.95% (the reversionary 
rate). The fixed rate should have run until 31 October 2011 but in error it ended on 
31 August 2011. As the base rate was 0.5% in 2011 the charging rate - once the fixed rate 
ended - was 1.45%. As the reversionary rate was lower than the fixed rate this means Mr S 
and Mrs P saved money by the fixed rate ending early. I understand the fixed rate payments 
were around £1,140 a month whereas the reversionary rate payments were around £290 a 
month; so Mr S and Mrs P saved around £1,700 due to Barclays mistake.
Mr S and Mrs P said they would have had more time in October 2011 than in August 2011 to 
look for a new rate, so theyve been disadvantaged by the fixed rate ending early. But just 
because the fixed rate ended early in August 2011 doesnt mean they couldnt have still 
looked for a new rate in October 2011 when it should have ended and when they had more 
time. Instead, Mr S and Mrs P have left their mortgage running since then (so for over eight 
years) on the reversionary rate.
Mr S and Mrs P said there may have been a better rate available in between August and 
October 2011 than there was after October 2011. But there was nothing stopping Mr S and 
Mrs P from applying for a new rate in that period other than their own lack of time. Its not 
Barclays fault that Mr S and Mrs P were busy, and they would still have been busy whether 
the rate ended early in error (in August) or when it should have (in October).
Mr S and Mrs P have pointed out other mistakes made by Barclays but I cant consider those 
here as part of this complaint. Im just looking at the mistake that led to the fixed rate ending 
in August rather than October 2011.
The only mistake Barclays made was ending the rate early. If Barclays hadnt made that 
mistake, then Mr S and Mrs P would have been charged an interest rate of 5.69% for that 
two-month period rather than the 1.45% that they were charged. Its clear from that there 
was no financial loss to Mr S and Mrs P, in fact the mistake left them better off.Barclays offered to refund the £995 product fee for the fixed rate but Mr S and Mrs P want 
more than that; they say interest should be added onto that sum to date. As Mr S and Mrs P 
were left financially better off as a result of the mistake, that offer from Barclays is 
remarkably generous. Had this complaint come to me with no offer made on it I wouldnt be 
awarding anything as Mr S and Mrs P have already benefited by moving to the much lower 
rate sooner than they should have done. 
Arguably, if Mr S and Mrs P are to be put back in the position they would have been in if 
Barclays hadnt made a mistake and ended their rate early, then they owe Barclays money 
rather than the other way round. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and it follows I make no order or award. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr S to accept or reject my 
decision before 24 July 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman