DRN-4332600
The complaint
Mr C complains about Saga Services Limited (Saga) and the information they provided to 
him at the point of sale of his home insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr C purchased a home insurance policy through Saga, who were acting 
as the broker and intermediary. This policy included both building and contents cover, both 
underwritten by different insurers.
Mr C renewed his policy through Saga in 2020, 2021 and 2022. Unfortunately, in early 2023, 
Mr Cs wife lost a ring that held financial and sentimental value within their home. So, he 
made a claim on his contents cover, underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as A.
But A declined his claim, explaining the policy didnt cover Mr C for valuables lost within his 
home. Mr C was unhappy about this, and he didnt think Saga had made the scope of the 
policy clear to him when he purchased it. So, he raised a complaint with Saga, explaining his 
belief that they had mis-sold the policy to him.
Saga responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained Mr C took out the 
policy online, on a non-advised basis. So, they thought the emphasis was on Mr C to fully 
understand the scope and limitations of the policy and because of this, they didnt think they 
had mis-sold it. But they agree to provide feedback to their business improvement team, to 
recommend that their communication be clearer in explaining misplacing an item in the 
home wouldnt be covered. Mr C remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied the policy 
was sold on a non-advised basis. And they felt Saga had provided Mr C with the correct 
policy documentation, that set out what cover he held within it. While they understand the 
specific scenario Mr C found himself wasnt outlined directly, they didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect Saga to outline every possible situation, and what would and would not 
be covered. So, as our investigator didnt think there was any evidence to show Saga led Mr 
C to believe he would be covered if a ring was lost within his home, they didnt think Saga 
needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He thought in Sagas final response, they had made it clear they felt the 
policy wording was unclear. So, he maintained his belief that the policy had been mis-sold 
and because of this, he wanted his claim with A to be accepted. As Mr C didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I recognise the ring 
held a significant financial and sentimental value, and so, I can understand the upset Mr C 
and his wife wouldve felt when they realised it had been lost. I also recognise Mr C paid for 
a home insurance policy that included contents cover to assist him both practically and 
financially in a situation such as this, so a replacement could be purchased. 
So, when Mr C made a claim and it was declined, I can understand this shock and upset this 
wouldve caused. And I can understand why Mr C would revisit the initial sales process of 
the policy and feel as though the policy had been mis-sold, as I dont dispute he wasnt 
aware of the full scope and limitations of the cover he held. So, I can understand why he 
thinks Saga have acted unfairly and wants them to aide him in overturning the claim decline.
But I think its important to set out clearly what Sagas role was in this situation. Saga were 
acting as the insurance broker and intermediary, and not the underwriter. So, Saga are 
responsible for the sale of the policy, and the administering of the claim on the underwriter, 
in this case As, behalf. But crucially, Saga arent responsible for the way the policy is 
worded. Nor are they responsible for As decision to decline the claim. Any concerns 
regarding the policy wording, or the claim decline, would need to be directed to A directly, 
and investigated by our service as a separate complaint.
Because of this, Saga dont have the power to overturn As decision to decline the claim. 
And this isnt something Id be able to direct, even if I did think they had mis-sold the policy. 
But in this situation, I dont think I can say thats the case. And Ill explain why.
Saga have confirmed Mr C purchased the policy in 2019 online. And, that this was a non-
advised sale, meaning Saga didnt speak to Mr C or make any recommendations as to 
whether the policy he was purchasing suited his needs. Because of this, Im satisfied Saga 
wouldnt have provided any misinformation to Mr C directly that would incorrectly lead him to 
believe the policy would provide him with a greater level of cover than it did.
But in a non-advised sale, our service would still expect Saga to ensure Mr C had all the 
information he needed to understand the scope of the policy, and any limitations. Ive seen 
that Mr C was provided with the policy documentation, including the policy schedule and 
terms and conditions, in 2019 and then at renewal in 2020, 2021 and 2022. 
And in all the policy and renewal documentation, I can see Saga made Mr C aware of his 
responsibility to review the documentation and ensure it met his needs. So, this is all Id 
expect Saga to do.
While I do recognise Saga, in their response to Mr Cs complaint, said they would provide 
feedback to their business improvement team, I dont think this was an admission that they 
had done something wrong. I would expect Saga to take learning from a customer complaint 
and find ways to improve and I think this is evidence of them acting proactively, in good faith. 
But this doesnt alter the fact that, in a non-advised sale, Sagas responsibility was to provide 
Mr C with all the information he needed to ensure he had the correct level of cover himself. 
And I think they did this.
I appreciate Mr C will likely disagree with this. And he thinks the limitations of the policy 
shouldve been made clearer. But I dont think its reasonable to expect Saga to provide a list 
of all scenarios where the cover may not meet a customers needs, due to the large amount 
of scenarios that would need to be described and the fact every claim will most likely differ considering they will also centre around separate, individual circumstances.
So, while I do recognise the impact this situation has caused Mr C, I dont think this has 
arisen from anything Saga has done wrong. And because of this, I dont think they need to 
do anything more on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Saga Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman