DRN-2907753
The complaint
Mr C complains that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited (AFH) (trading as AFH 
Wealth Management) gave him inappropriate advice to switch from one Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) provider to another.
What happened
Mr C complains he was advised to move his SIPP from one provider to another. He said that 
in 2016 he asked his adviser whether he needed to make sure his plan offered draw down 
options. He was told this was something he should probably consider, and he could be 
moved to a more cost-effective provider. The new provider allowed income drawdown and 
offered discretionary fund management. But Mr C said he wasnt intending to retire for at 
least another 15 years, and he wasnt told he didnt need to move to gain flexibility at this 
time so that the lack of those options wasnt a good reason to move. He was told the 
ongoing fees would be slightly higher in the new pension but was told this was due to a 
much closer active monitoring of the funds which should produce higher returns and 
safeguard against market downturns. He didnt feel the discretionary fund management had 
safeguarded him from market downturns, which is what he was promised and was more 
expensive. He was told by the adviser that the new portfolio should ride out any market 
correction better than the old. He felt the initial fee of 1% of his fund was too high, the fund 
selection was poor and too much was invested in a single fund which limited the 
diversification of his portfolio. He wanted to be put back in the position he wouldve been in if 
had he not switched his pension.
He said he paid an initial 1% of his fund in fees. After the switch he monitored both the new 
and old fund values had he not moved. Within a few months they had diverged, and he was 
£10,000 worse off. He then moved his funds away from AFH to another adviser. He thought 
he had lost about £8,000.
AFH said its discretionary intermediation service did not purport to say it would produce 
higher returns nor guarantee against market downturns instead it outlines the steps it used 
to mitigate risk in times of market volatility. There was no performance guarantee but risk 
warnings that made clear there was no guarantee that performance would exceed that of the 
old policy, nor that past performance was a guide to future investment performance. It 
referred to the statement about riding out market corrections. It felt this had been taken out 
of context and the full statement refers to conditions not yet met (being fully invested) as well 
as unknown conditions (the length of market correction in 2018). It was not a personal 
assurance or guarantee. It had made clear its adviser charge was normally 3% but this had 
been reduced to 1% and received a fee of around £1800 in December 2017 for the advice. It 
thought the fee was competitive and not excessive. With respect to the allocation to the 
largest fund it said its report explained why this fund was used and the flexibility it offered to 
use as a tactical tool to respond more quickly to market movements and the fund itself 
offered a level of diversification. It said it was appropriate to his attitude to risk and the 
diversification of the whole portfolio was not limited by allocating 30% to this fund.
In summary it said the advice was suitable, Mr C agreed the reasons for transfer and the 
future flexible options was not the sole reason for transferring. Fees were clearly disclosed 
and were not performance based and were competitive. The recommendation and selection 
of funds was appropriate to his attitude to risk and met the diversification requirements in 
terms of asset allocation for his risk profile.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said that in considering this complaint I had 
considered the regulator provisions applicable to the provision of the advice to Mr C.
In this case Mr C was relying on advice from AFH with respect to a pension switch from his 
existing to a new provider. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook lists principles that govern the relationship 
between AFH and Mr C. 
This included: -
Principle 7  communications with clients - a firm must pay due regard to the information 
need of its clients, and communicate information in a way that is clear, fair and not 
misleading
Principle 9 customers: relationships of trust  a firm must take reasonable care to ensure 
the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely 
upon its judgment.
The advice given to Mr C and which he relied on, because he did switch his pension, was 
contained within a written report. 
The FCA had issued guidance and supporting material about the types of situations that 
might lead to a conclusion that advice was not suitable in relation to a pension switch such 
as in this case. 
In particular, it considered a number of outcomes that it says are unsuitable. For example 
that; -
1. Where a customer has been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs 
and ongoing costs of the receiving scheme versus the old scheme or a stakeholder 
pension) without good reason.
It says simply having a choice of more funds e.g. 500 where the old scheme offered 100 is 
unlikely to be enough to show it was suitable. There needs to be evidence there was a clear 
need for those funds and a real benefit to having them. The greater range should also 
outweigh additional charges. Just disclosing additional charges does not make the advice 
suitable it must be in the customers best interests, otherwise there should not be a switch.
If a new scheme offers more options, it should be clear the customer needs them. The FCA 
says that if a move to a more expensive scheme is partly to allow flexibility to use drawdown 
at retirement but the customer still has 15 years until retirement, it is unlikely that they are 
receiving value for money by paying more for this feature before they come to retire.
In the light of this I have considered whether the advice was suitable. 
First, I have considered if the new plan was more expensive. Its clear it was. I say that because while the AFH report says the average annual charges for the old plan was 1.25% 
and the new 0.85% so the new plan was said to cost 0.4% less per annum to run. It then 
adds the cost of running the comprehensive investment service it proposed was an 
additional 1% but says this would apply whether they used the existing plan or set up an new 
plan so this was cost neutral. It concludes that the total charges for the new plan were 2.07% 
being the AFH fee of 1%, fund manager fee of 0.85%, annual policy charges of 0.12% and 
another charge of 0.1%. 
It goes on to say the recommended plan is more expensive than maintaining the old plan, 
but it said Mr C did not have a coherent investment strategy in the existing plan and needed 
a properly structured portfolio. 
I have considered some of the reasons for the switch. At the time of the report in September 
2017, Mr C was 50 and the report says that he planned to retire at age 65. As outlined above 
the FCA has indicated that a move to a more expensive scheme to allow more flexibility at 
retirement could show a customer is not receiving value. In this case it seems Mr C would be 
paying for something before he needed it. 
The report notes that the existing plan offered a range of over 500 funds. AFH also 
commented that the existing investments in the plan could be changed so that his charges 
would reduce from approximately £1,232 to £580 per annum, but it says this is higher than 
the £195 of the new provider and concludes that it is more cost effective to move to the new 
provider. This seems at odds with the later acknowledgement that the new plan with its 
investment service would be more expensive. It also isnt clear whether the cost comparison 
of the new and old plan was on the basis of the restructured fund and lower charges which 
could have made the new plan even more expensive by comparison. 
Mr C was advised his existing plan was not suitable for the purpose of planning for his 
retirement because: -
a. The charging structure was uncompetitive
b. He wished to consider wider investment options and specifically referred to 
the Discretionary Intermediation Service. It said the existing plan did not 
permit the wide range of investment options he required for example their 
discretionary intermediation service and it didnt offer flexible retirement 
option he expected to need at retirement.
It said that for this reason it recommended he consider its recommendations which it 
believed offered a more suitable approach to achieving his objectives based on his current 
circumstances and attitude to risk.
Given the existing plan offered over a large number of funds and AFH confirmed the 
investments could be changed to reduce costs there does not seem to be a good 
explanation of why the new plan is more suitable nor why a discretionary investment service 
is needed. I noted also that in the fact find Mr Cs key objective was cost saving not broader 
investment choice. The advice seemed to be at odds with that objective. I had not therefore 
seen evidence there was a clear need for the wider range of investment options and a real 
benefit to having them. The greater range had not been shown to outweigh additional 
charges. The disclosure of those additional charges does not make the advice suitable. 
Based on the comments I had made I didnt think the report showed that it was in Mr Cs 
best interests. On that basis the regulator comments that it should not have recommended a 
switch.
The report also showed that with an assumed annual growth rate of 5% his existing plan would grow to around £278,000 and the new fund to £271,000 by age 65. It commented that 
the new fund needed to produce an additional annual growth of 0.18% to match the 
projected fund in the existing plan.
So, in the light of the comments by the regulator and because the new plan was more 
expensive, offered flexibility that was not needed, wider investment options that have not 
been demonstrated to be in Mr Cs best interests and because it was projected to achieve 
lower investment returns than his existing plan, I do not consider that the advice to switch 
was suitable Given that conclusion, I have not considered all of the arguments raised by Mr 
C as I have reached that conclusion without needing to do so.
In order to put things right Mr C is entitled to be put back in the position he would have been 
in but for the unsuitable advice. In my view that would mean that he would not have 
transferred from the old to the new scheme.
My aim in awarding fair compensation was to put Mr C back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for the unsuitable advice. I thought this would have meant Mr 
C would have remained invested in the same investments with the old provider as he was in 
at the time of the switch to the new provider recommended by AFH.
I note also that Mr C says he moved his pension from the new provider proposed by AFH to 
his current provider as he was unhappy. In measuring this loss, I must first consider whether 
the amount transferred to his current provider was less that it would have been if it had 
remained invested with his old provider at the time of the advice in 2017 (prior to the switch). 
Any loss Mr C has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension Mr C would have had from the old provider (prior switch advised by AFH) at the date 
he transferred to his now current provider on the basis that his fund had remained with the 
old provider (and in the same investments as he was just prior to the in the time of switch, 
ignoring any encashment to facilitate the switch) and subtracting the actual value of the 
pension transferred to his current provider at that date. If the answer is negative, theres a 
gain and no redress is payable.
The amount transferred must then be further adjusted to reflect the lost investment return in 
his current plan. I think the amount of any loss should be adjusted to reflect the average 
investment return in his current plan from the date he transferred into it, to the 48 hours 
before AFH makes actual payment of this loss (if any).
I also considered an award for distress and inconvenience. This is intended to reflect the 
impact on Mr C not to punish AFH. I can see that this has been distressing for Mr C. In the 
circumstances I think an award of £350 would be fair and reasonable.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that AFH should pay compensation for 
financial loss and distress and inconvenience on the basis proposed above.
Mr C said he had nothing further to add. He confirmed that he transferred £179,099.78 to his 
new SIPP provider on 7 May 2019. AFH did not submit any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and in the light of the absence of any comments from AFH I have not 
changed my mind.Putting things right
In order to put things right AFH must pay compensation for financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience on the basis below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I direct that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited shall, within 30 days of this service 
notifying it that Mr C has accepted this decision, pay Mr C :-
1. £350.00 for distress and inconvenience, and
2. Such amount for any financial loss Mr C has suffered as determined by obtaining the 
notional value of the pension from the old provider (being his pension provider prior 
to the AFH advised switch) at the date Mr C transferred to his now current provider 
(on 7 May 2019) on the basis that his fund had remained with the old provider (and in 
the same investments as he was in immediately prior to the time of the switch and 
ignoring any encashment to allow the switch ) and subtracting the actual value of the 
pension transferred to his current provider on 7 May 2019. If the answer is negative, 
theres a gain and no redress is payable.
a. The amount of any loss determined under 2 above must then be further 
adjusted to reflect the lost investment return in his current plan. The amount 
of loss determined under 2 above (if any) should be adjusted to reflect the 
average investment return in Mr Cs current plan from the date he transferred 
into it, to the 48 hours before AFH Independent Financial Services Limited 
makes payment of this loss to Mr C.
The compensation for financial loss amount should if possible be paid into Mr Cs current 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief 
and assuming any additional contributions paid into the new AFH scheme would have been 
paid into the old scheme. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr C hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed (based on the income stated in the fact find) to be 40%. So, making a notional 
reduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
If AFH Independent Financial Services Limited dont pay Mr C £350 above within 30 days of 
being notified Mr C has accepted this decision the amount of £350 shall be further increased 
by 8% per annum simple interest from the date of my decision to the date of actual payment 
to Mr C.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman