DRN-2431596
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Siberite Mortgages) unfairly 
recorded adverse date on Mr Ls credit file. Mr L has handled the complaint throughout. Hed 
like the adverse data removed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a joint buy-to-let mortgage with another provider. Mr and Mrs L have 
been separated for some years. The mortgage was transferred to Siberite in 2019. 
In early 2020 Mr L saw that Siberite had recorded a missed payment on his credit file. Mr L 
says Mrs L is responsible for mortgage payments and he couldnt have known the payment 
was late or done anything about it. He says the adverse data has affected his business. 
Our investigator said Mr L remained liable for mortgage payments, and the payment due in 
December 2019 was missed. He didnt think it fair to require Siberite to remove the data.
Mr L didnt agree. He said he hadnt been told the mortgage had been transferred to Siberite 
and didnt have any of the details needed to make a payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs L separated some years ago. They agreed that Mrs L would be responsible for 
making payments to the mortgage account which is now with Siberite. However, the 
mortgage remains in joint names. That means Mr and Mrs L are jointly and severally liable 
for mortgage payments.
Siberite recorded a missed payment on Mr Ls credit file. Mr L is jointly responsible for 
making mortgage payments, and the payment due in December 2019 was missed. And so 
the information recorded by Siberite on Mr Ls file was, in this sense, accurate.
Mr L says the adverse data should be removed because it isnt a fair representation of his 
payment history or his ability to pay the mortgage. Mr L says he wasnt told the mortgage 
was transferred to Siberite or given details about how to make payments.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was transferred to Siberite in July 2019. Siberite provided a copy 
of a welcome letter it says it sent to Mr L when the mortgage was transferred. It says the 
letter wasnt returned. However, Mr L says the address Siberite had for him was out of date 
and he didnt receive the letter. 
Mr L and Mrs L had agreed that Mrs L would manage this mortgage. Nonetheless Mr L 
remained liable under the mortgage. If he wanted to receive information from the lender he 
needed to ensure it had up to date contact details for him.
Mr L says he told the previous lender about his changes of address. I havent seen evidence 
to support this. Mr L requested his personal data from his previous lender about three 
months ago, however he hasnt provided evidence to us that he updated his address on the 
mortgage account.
I think its reasonable for Siberite to write to Mr L at the address in its records. While its 
unfortunate that Mr L didnt receive the welcome letter from Siberite in mid-2019 I think this 
was because the address in its records was incorrect. I think, most likely, this was because 
Mr L hadnt updated his address when he moved house. 
Siberite didnt write to Mr L in early January 2020, to tell him a payment had been missed. It 
only wrote to Mrs Ls address. At this time Siberite only had an incorrect address for Mr L. 
Mr L has said he didnt receive the previous letter sent to this address. So its unlikely Mr L 
would have received the letter if Siberite had written to him in January 2020.
I dont think it would have made any difference to the outcome here if Mr L had received 
these letters. He expected Mrs L to make monthly mortgage payments, as had happened for 
some years. Its unlikely hed have known ahead of time that thered be a problem with the 
December 2019 payment, so I dont think hed have arranged to make the payment himself. 
And the letter sent in January 2020 was sent after the payment was missed.
Mr L says Siberite didnt provide him with a direct debit form, or other options to pay. The 
welcome letter in mid-2019 provided information about how to set up a direct debit and other 
payment methods. Even if Mr L had received this, I think its unlikely hed have set up 
payments for this mortgage: he expected Mrs L to make the mortgage payments. 
Lenders check credit files for information about a potential borrowers existing commitments, 
and how theyre managed. Late or missed payments can suggest a borrower is experiencing 
financial difficulties or struggling to manage their repayments. Mr L has said this isnt the 
case here. He says he could have easily made the missed mortgage payment, and he 
provided bank statements to support what he said. 
Mr L says the adverse data is unfair  that it doesnt accurately reflect his own payment 
history or ability to pay. Ive thought carefully about what Mr L has said, and the points he 
makes. Mr L has also explained how this affects his business and I appreciate how important 
this is to him.
I dont think I can fairly require Siberite to remove the missed payment from Mr Ls credit 
files. If the payment was missed due to an error by Siberite the outcome here might be 
different. But I dont think thats the case. I think the data it recorded was accurate and fair. 
Borrowers have responsibility for managing their loan accounts. Regardless of the 
arrangement he had with Mrs L, Mr L remained jointly and severally responsible for the 
mortgage, and therefore the missed payment.
Mr L can consider asking the credit reference agencies to add a notice to his credit file 
explaining the situation. He can explain the circumstances to potential lenders, and provide 
evidence of his ability to pay any loans he applies for. But, while I know Mr L will be 
disappointed, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Siberite to 
remove the missed payment from Mr Ls credit file.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman