DRN-4148265
The complaint
Mrs J complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined her claim against her private medical 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
in full. In summary, on 20 September 2022, Mrs J contacted BUPA about taking out a 
private medical insurance policy. She took out a policy on a full medical underwriting 
basis, which means that she gave BUPA information about her health. 
Mrs J told BUPA about her previous medical history and disclosed her diagnosis of 
Crohns disease, B12 deficiency, a cyst in her throat, white coat syndrome, a recent trip 
to A&E for checks to her heart and blood pressure, tinnitus and menopause. BUPA 
applied special conditions to Mrs Js cover and excluded treatment in relation to Crohns 
disease and B12 deficiency.  
On 17 October 2022, Mrs J contacted BUPA about a claim against the policy. She said 
that during a procedure on 13 September 2022 she was found to have a high heart rate. 
Mrs J wanted further investigations in relation to that. BUPA declined the claim. It said 
that this was a pre-existing medical condition and not covered by the policy. 
Mrs J complained about BUPAs decision to decline her claim and cancelled the policy. 
She says that at the time of purchase, she told BUPA about possible problems with her 
heart, and it didnt say that it wouldnt be covered. Mrs J says that BUPA excluded only 
two conditions which means that the other conditions she mentioned are covered. She 
says that the information BUPA gave her was misleading. Mrs J wants a refund of 
premium. 
Mrs J had a previous private medical insurance policy which she hadnt cancelled. I 
understand that she made a claim on that policy in relation to seeing a cardiologist. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that BUPA explained 
how its medically underwritten policy works and hadnt acted unfairly in declining Mrs Js 
claim. The investigator said that BUPA should have noted Mrs Js raised heart rate and 
high blood pressure as a pre-existing condition at the outset. He thought that BUPA 
should pay Mrs J compensation of £75 in relation to that. 
Mrs J accepted the investigators recommendation, but BUPA didnt. It said that it made 
clear to Mrs J that pre-existing symptoms and conditions arent covered by the policy, so 
it didnt agree that it had misled her or raised her expectations. 
BUPA said that it correctly recorded only some of the health issues/concerns/symptoms 
Mrs J mentioned as special conditions. Mrs J described raised blood pressure as only 
present in clinical settings and its view is that white coat syndrome isnt an underwritten 
risk. 
BUPA said that if Mrs J had explained that she was going to make a claim relating to 
investigations into her blood pressure so soon after the policy start date, it would have 
excluded her blood pressure related symptoms. It doesnt agree with the investigators 
recommendation in relation to compensation. 
BUPA asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision 
On 12 May 2023, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case in which I indicated 
that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mrs Js membership with BUPA. Her policy 
covers eligible treatment but doesnt cover treatment for any special conditions or             
pre-existing conditions. The membership guide says as follows: 
Important information
[] 
4. If your underwriting method shown on your Membership Certificate is:
Underwritten: we do not pay for Treatment for any Special Conditions detailed on 
your Confirmation of Special Conditions or any Pre-existing Conditions, see your 
Membership Certificate for more details including what we mean by Special 
Conditions. []
The membership guide defines Pre-existing Condition as:
  any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before your Effective 
Underwriting Date
you have received medication advice or Treatment, or 
you have experienced symptoms,
Whether the condition was diagnosed or not.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont propose to 
uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.  
Subject to the policy terms, Mrs Js policy covers eligible treatment, but it doesnt 
cover pre-existing conditions, whether or not they are excluded by a special 
condition. 
I think theres been some confusion on BUPAs part. Mrs Js claim which led to this 
complaint was in relation to an elevated heart rate. But BUPAs final response and 
some of its correspondence with this service following the investigators view refers 
to Mrs Js blood pressure and white coat syndrome. My understanding is that white 
coat syndrome refers to elevated blood pressure, not an elevated heart rate.  
Ive listened to the phone calls between Mrs J and BUPA when she took out the 
policy. BUPA explained to Mrs J that current pre-existing conditions wouldnt be 
covered. It also explained how a full medically underwritten policy works and that it 
may seek further information if a claim is made soon after the policy is taken out.  When Mrs J called BUPA to make the claim, she referred to the discovery of a high 
heart rate during a procedure on 13 September 2021. That was before Mrs J took 
out the policy with BUPA. So, Mrs J experienced symptoms before she took out the 
policy. BUPA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim on the basis 
that it was for a pre-existing condition. 
Mrs J says that BUPA excluded only two conditions, which means that the other 
conditions she mentioned are covered. Thats not in fact the case. BUPA is entitled 
to exclude treatment for the conditions mentioned in the special conditions or any 
pre-existing condition. Im satisfied that Mrs Js elevated/fluctuating heart rate was 
a pre-existing condition, as defined by the membership guide.  
BUPA isnt obliged to exclude in a special condition every medical condition 
mentioned in the sales call. To do so may often be to a members disadvantage as 
it would lead to a wider range of exclusions. I dont agree that BUPA was at fault in 
failing to note Mrs Js fluctuating heart rate as a special condition. When she took 
out the policy, Mrs J linked it to her white coat syndrome and made little of it. When 
she made a claim against the policy shortly after she took it out, BUPA was entitled 
to consider the matter again.  
Considering everything, I dont think that there are any grounds on which I can 
fairly direct BUPA to refund Mrs Js premium or pay her compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
BUPA said that it had nothing further to add. Mrs J didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
She said, in summary:
She doesnt have a heart condition and thats been confirmed by a cardiologist.
She can provide proof that her heart rate is normal.
BUPA covers all pre-existing conditions when insurance is provided through 
companies and no questions are asked, so why have different rules?
Two different individuals from this service have come to different decisions, which 
shows that theres no strict criteria for decision making. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to note that Mrs J had a positive outcome following investigations by a 
cardiologist. That doesnt alter the outcome here. It remains the case that BUPA didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim on the basis that it was in relation to 
something that was pre-existing when Mrs J took out the policy.
In this decision, Im looking at whether BUPA acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance 
with the terms of Mrs Js membership. The terms of membership BUPA may offer to others 
under different arrangements arent relevant here.   This service operates a two-stage complaint process. That means that a complaint is first 
investigated by one of our investigators. If either party to the dispute disagrees with the 
investigators findings the complaint is referred to an ombudsman for a decision. Thats what 
happened here -  BUPA disagreed with the conclusions and recommendation of our 
investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Where a complaint is passed to an ombudsman its looked at afresh. An ombudsman isnt 
bound by the findings of the investigator. Where, like here, an ombudsman doesnt agree 
with an investigators findings, a provisional decision gives both parties the opportunity to 
comment further before a final decision. 
My provisional decision set out the reasons why I reached the conclusion I had. I appreciate 
that my provisional decision was disappointing for Mrs J,  but for the reasons I set out, Im 
unable to fairly and reasonably require BUPA to refund the premium or pay compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I remain of the view that 
BUPA didnt treat Mrs J unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman