DRN-4492205
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More 
Th>n(RSA) handled a claim on his motor insurance policy. And he says the policy was mis-
sold.
What happened
Mr F had car insurance that was underwritten by RSA. In January 2023 he made a claim 
after he was involved in an accident.
RSA accepted the claim and offered a repair at its preferred repair garage. However Mr F 
wasnt happy with this as he said he had a manufacturers warranty for the vehicle that 
required him to only have repairs carried out at garages that had been approved by the 
manufacturer.
RSA agreed to send the car to a manufacturer approved garage, however it said as this 
wasnt one of its preferred garages then there would be a higher excess to pay and Mr F 
wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car. It said this was set out in its policy terms.
Mr F wasnt happy with this. He said he was required to use a manufacturer approved 
garage under his warranty and if he didnt, the warranty would be void. So he said he didnt 
have any choice but to use one.
Due to the restriction, Mr F arranged a courtesy car directly with the manufacturer. He asked 
RSA to arrange temporary insurance to cover this car. However this took some time to 
arrange, and once it was in place, it left him with only eight days of cover.
He made a complaint about how RSA had handled the claim. He also said that he felt the 
policy had been mis-sold to him, as it wasnt suitable for his needs in relation to the 
requirements of his warranty.
RSA upheld his complaint, as it said it agreed there had been some delays to progressing 
his claim. It said it would extend the temporary insurance for his courtesy car further and 
offered £100 compensation to apologise.
However it didnt agree the policy was mis-sold. It said it had been bought through an 
aggregator site. And Mr F had been provided with all the paperwork in order to ensure the 
policy was suitable for him. And it said the terms relating to using its preferred garage were 
clear in these documents.
Mr F didnt think this was a fair resolution and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. While she didnt think the policy 
had been mis-sold, she thought RSA should have allowed Mr F to use a manufacturer 
approved garage without applying the additional excess. So she said it should refund the 
additional £200 paid. She also thought it should have provided a courtesy car in the 
circumstances and thought it should pay an additional £150 to apologise for this.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators outcome as he said he thought the policy had been mis- 
sold and RSA didnt explain the restrictions in the policy clearly enough. RSA didnt accept 
the outcome as it said the policy made it clear that where its preferred garage isnt used, 
there would be no courtesy car and a higher excess.
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Sale of the policy
I understand Mr F is frustrated that the insurance policy he bought from RSA offers a repair
at its preferred garage as standard. And it doesnt guarantee this will be a repairer that is
approved by the manufacturer.
Mr F bought the policy online, initially through a third party aggregator site. He entered the
details of his requirements, and this then transferred him to RSAs own website to complete
the purchase. As the policy was bought through a third party, RSA dont have the details of
what was shown to him at the start of the sale. However it has a responsibility to ensure he
was provided with clear information about the policy so that he can make sure it meets his
needs. He then has 14 days to cancel the policy after the purchase if he decides it doesnt.
RSA has provided copies of the documents that were sent to Mr F when he took out the
policy. The cover sheet of these stated as follows:
We'll give information to help you make an informed choice but won't provide advice on
whether our products are suitable for you.
From this, its clear that the sale wasnt an advised one. That means RSA provided details of
the policy in order for Mr F to decide if its suitable for him, rather than making a
recommendation based on his needs.
The policy document was also sent to Mr F and this contained the following wording. The
key facts document stated:
The total payable on the Accidental Damage, Fire and Theft excesses is increased by £200
if you do not use one of our recommended repairers.
And the full policy wording states:
We wont be able to supply a guaranteed hire car if you dont use our recommended
repairers unless Guaranteed hire car upgrade has been selected.
It is usual that a motor insurance policy will require the vehicle to be inspected and repaired
at the insurers preferred garage. This is the case for the vast majority of motor insurance
policies. So this isnt an unusual term that I would expect RSA to highlight in addition to it
appearing in the policy document.
And as RSA sent the documents to Mr F when he purchased the policy, he had 14 days to
read over them to check it was right for him.I understand Mr F also has a warranty with the manufacturer, and this comes with its own
requirements. However this isnt something Id expect RSA to consider when offering the
policy. As Ive said, the sale was non-advised, so it wasnt for RSA to decide if the policy met
Mr Fs needs. As Mr F knew there were requirements under the warranty with the
manufacturer, the onus would be on him to make sure the policy with RSA was compatible
with this and that he was happy with the terms. As Im satisfied RSA provided him with clear
information at the point of sale to enable him to do this, I dont agree it did anything wrong
when Mr F took out the policy.
Handling of the claim
As Ive said above, I dont consider the term in Mr Fs policy relating to RSA using its
preferred garage to be unfair, it follows that it wasnt unfair for it to apply it in Mr Fs claim.
I appreciate that Mr F felt he was bound to using a garage that was approved by the
manufacturer, in order to ensure he didnt prejudice his warranty. And this is understandable.
However RSA allowed him to use a garage of his choice, so he was able to ensure the
warranty was unaffected. And I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand his frustration that using a garage of his own choice meant he had to pay an
additional excess and wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. But this is laid out in the policy terms.
And just because Mr F has another warranty with a different provider that conflicts with this
term, I wouldnt expect RSA to depart from the terms of the policy. So I dont agree its acted
unfairly by charging an additional excess and not providing a courtesy car.
However I can see there were some delays caused by RSA. In particular it took some time
to review the report carried out by Mr Fs chosen garage, which delayed the resolution of the
claim and meant Mr F had to chase RSA. Further it caused delays in relation to providing the
temporary insurance. And Mr F has said he was given wrong information about the policy
over the phone. In response RSA extended the temporary cover beyond its usual maximum
extension of 28 days. And I think thats fair in the circumstances. Its also offered £100
compensation to apologise for the delays and poor service throughout the claim. This is in
line with what I would have recommended if it hadnt made an offer, so Im satisfied this is
fair in the circumstances. I therefore am not minded to ask RSA to do anything more.
Response to my provisional decision
RSA responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
However Mr F didnt accept it. In summary he said:
 
He didnt agree that RSA had provided clear information at the point of sale regarding 
the use of a garage that may not be approved by the manufacturer. 
RSA should have warned him that the policy may be at odds with a manufacturers 
warranty as many people have them. 
RSAs failure to provide a courtesy car had a great impact on his personal and 
professional life and this hadnt been recognised in my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered Mr Fs comments, alongside everything already available on file, I havent 
changed my position on the complaint.
Mr F has said that he didnt go to RSA for advice on a policy, however the fact that the policy 
only provided full cover when using its own preferred garage was a significant term and 
should have been made clear to him. I explained in my provisional decision that I could see 
the policy documents stated that RSA would use its preferred garage, and how policy cover 
changed if the policyholder chose their own garage instead. And I still think this was 
sufficient. Most insurers will use preferred garages for repairs, this isnt an unusual policy 
term. And the policy still provides cover if a policyholder opts to use their own preferred 
garage, its just at a higher excess and a courtesy car isnt provided. So I dont consider the 
term to be either significant or unusual. Therefore under FCA rules, RSA werent obliged to 
highlight this feature outside of the policy documents. As the document itself explains this 
limitation, I think RSA did enough to make this clear. 
I understand Mr F feels strongly that as the policy was at odds with his warranty, this should 
have been explained at the point of sale. However RSA sold the policy as part of a non-
advised sale, so it wasnt obliged to ask about any other policies Mr F may have. Or point 
out possible areas of conflict. Mr F was aware of the manufacturers warranty, and had the 
opportunity to ensure the RSA policy was suitable for his needs. Therefore the onus was on 
him to identify any conflicts. So I dont think RSA should have done any more. 
Mr F has also said that not having a courtesy car had a bigger impact on him than I 
recognised in my decision. While I dont doubt this would have caused him distress and 
inconvenience, the fact he didnt receive a courtesy car is because he used his preferred 
garage. And this was explained in the terms and conditions of the policy. So I cant say RSA 
acted unfairly by not offering a courtesy car, and therefore wont ask them to award 
compensation for the impact. 
Mr F has quoted a number of FCA rules and some legislation that he considers RSA to have 
breached. While I havent commented on each of these directly, when reaching my decision 
I have considered the relevant rules and legislation as well as whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. And Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly. 
Based on this, I see no reason to depart from the findings laid out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman