DRN-4438427
The complaint
Mr C says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction on his credit card for a cruise.
What happened
During 2022 Mr C used his American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex for short) 
credit card to purchase a cruise. He made an initial booking and then two further 
amendments to the booking each being paid for on his Amex card, coming to a total of 
nearly £10,000. Shortly before going on the cruise Mr Cs wife was diagnosed as having 
serious medical conditions. So Mr C cancelled the cruise shortly before departure. In the end 
the cruise supplier said there would be no refund due to Mr C cancelling shortly before 
departure and the relevant terms and conditions that had been agreed said in such a 
situation there was no refund payable. So Mr C raised a dispute with Amex.
Amex spoke to Mr C repeatedly over a period of time. It raised a chargeback which the 
Supplier defended. After some back and forth and some conflicting information being 
provided, Amex said Mr C had to repay Amex the cost of the holiday having told him the 
money was his. Amex accepted it had made mistakes and offered him £125 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr C wasnt happy with Amexs position, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter and pointed to the call recordings of conversations 
between Amex and Mr C and said the following:
During the first call between Mr C and Amex, its clear Mr C believed the dispute was 
successful and there was no further investigation. There is an argument to say he was right 
to think this, but I do note he wasnt explicitly told the dispute had concluded during this call. 
The second call is rather different. Amex told Mr C the dispute had been found in his favour 
and there was no need for any further action from him. Amex specifically said Its just been 
a write off, so what were going (to) do is weve immediately found the merchant liable. So no 
need to actually upload any documents. Amex then said hed just get the money back. 
Amex did explicitly tell Mr C the dispute was done, and the money was his.
Our Investigator felt Amex should pay Mr C a further £525 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and to arrange a new repayment plan, allowing Mr C to repay any 
outstanding balance on the account in a flexible way that took into account his financial 
circumstances, and without recording of arrears or default on his credit file.
Amex accepted this proposed resolution. Mr C feels he should be paid more so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This dispute reaches me with the facts of the matter broadly accepted by the parties. In short 
these were that some of the communications between Mr C and the supplier about refund 
amounts payable/applicable werent wholly clear. Mr C wasnt entitled to any refund for the 
cruise under the suppliers terms. Amex did tell him it had got him a full refund, but this 
wasnt true. And Mrs C was suffering from very serious medical condition and Mr C had 
other unrelated but very serious matters to deal with at that time also. So Mr C was under a 
significant amount of stress at the time. And both parties appreciate that Amex added to Mr 
Cs distress by the mistakes it made here.
Mr C feels that Amex shouldnt make him repay the whole cost of the cruise and rather it 
should write off half the amount, so he pays half the cruise cost. He says making the 
repayments agreed has been at great personal difficulty. However had Mr C and Mrs C not 
had the personal issues they did have, theyd have gone on the cruise and the full amount 
would have been payable. So the personal difficulty Mr C says hes faced in making the 
repayments would have happened anyway. The terms of the supplier are clear, and I see no 
persuasive reason for Amex to bear any of the cost of the cruise. 
However it is clear Amex were far from faultless in this matter and clearly a significant award 
is due here. I concur with the rationale set out by the investigator and I consider the total 
award of £650 (£125 already paid) is a fair reflection of the failings of Amex here.
I appreciate these were very stressful times for Mr C. However I can only apportion the 
distress that Amex caused by what it did in an award here. Mr C had substantial matters to 
deal with including appreciating he was cancelling a holiday which hed have to pay for and 
not go on. This wasnt Amexs fault nor was its fault that Mr C had the very serious matter of 
his wifes health to deal with and other serious unrelated matters. And although clearly Amex 
told him things that werent true he did know that the supplier was saying no refund was due.
I understand Mr C faces a significant amount to pay, and I also fully appreciate he feels 
Amex has failed miserably in its customer service. But I cannot make punitive awards. And I 
must only make awards based on Amexs failings and the impact of those and disassociate 
that award from that the very stressful matters that Mr C faced that werent Amexs fault or 
responsibility.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr C was hoping for. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr C will continue to make payments to Amex which will doubtlessly, to 
use a colloquialism, leave a sour taste in the mouth. Nevertheless the remedy that Amex 
has latterly agreed to is fair.
Putting things right
So Amex must pay a total of £650 (including that already paid) and put in place a new, more 
flexible repayment plan with Mr C. The repayment plan must be flexible taking into account 
his financial circumstances, and without the recording of arrears or defaults on his credit file.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr C has said I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and direct Amex to resolve this dispute as Ive explained above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against American Express Services 
Europe Limited and direct it to resolve the matter as Ive described.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman