DRN-2979165
The complaint
Mr F is complaining that Motus Group (UK) Ltd trading as Pentagon Doncaster Jeep mis-
sold him a car. He also complains that it mis-sold the hire purchase agreement he took out 
to acquire the car and also a number of insurance policies.
What happened
Mr F was previously part of a motability scheme, but he said he needed a higher insurance 
product that the scheme couldnt facilitate. So in May 2018 he and his wife contacted 
Pentagon to enquire about acquiring a new car. He says he went to Pentagon because it 
arranged his vehicle supplied under the motability scheme and he said he received a really 
good service.
Mr F acquired a car through Pentagon and Pentagon arranged a hire purchase agreement to 
enable him to finance the acquisition. It also arranged for him to take out a number of 
insurance policies  an extend warranty, cosmetic damage insurance and GAP insurance. 
To facilitate the sale, Pentagon initially discussed the car and the options available with his 
wife on the telephone. Mr F then later attended the dealership to complete the paperwork 
and collect the car.
Mr F later complained about the sale of the car and, in summary, raised the following points: 
1. Pentagon was offering interest rates at 3% and he says the salesman said he would 
match this offer on the car. But he later found out he was paying an interest rate of 
7.31%.
2. He didnt sign the initial purchase application. So he thinks Pentagon unfairly and 
prematurely assumed he would buy everything.
3. Pentagon was aware he was considered vulnerable, but he doesnt think it treated him 
fairly in selling him all the insurance policies. He says he didnt understand what the 
cosmetic damage insurance policy was and he says he wouldnt have taken it out 
because his insurance policy covered everything the cosmetic damage policy covered. 
He also highlighted that GAP isnt allowed to be sold on the same day the car is sold. So 
he doesnt think he should have been allowed to buy the policy.
4. He was unfairly sold a number of optional extras on the car  e.g. safeguard.
5. He was charged a delivery fee for the car.
6. He wanted an eco-friendly car, but Pentagon sold him a diesel car that he doesnt think 
is as eco-friendly as he wanted.
7. Pentagon charged him for car tax, but he is exempt from tax.
Pentagon didnt uphold the complaint as it was satisfied everything was made clear. Mr F 
had made a claim on the cosmetic damage policy which it understood was declined. It 
agreed to honour the claim and also said it would refund the cost of the policy.
Mr F remained unhappy with what had happened and wanted Pentagon to refer the 
complaint to its directors. Pentagon said it had responded to his complaint and his next steps 
were to refer his complaint to this service.
Mr F was unhappy Pentagon wouldnt refer his complaint to its directors, but ultimately 
referred his complaint to this service to review. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr F didnt accept the investigators opinion 
and said the following:
1. He didnt get the deal he was promised. He says he was rushed through the process. 
When he acquired his previous car through the motability scheme he was at the 
dealership for around three hours. But this time he said he was there for eight minutes.
2. The dealership was aware he was vulnerable, so he thinks it should have taken greater 
steps to ensure he knew what he was agreeing to.
3. He maintained the GAP insurance was sold to him and his wife at the same time he 
bought the car which he said was against regulations. 
4. The cash price of the car was £28,000, but with all the interest and addons, he will have 
to pay £44,000.
5. He said, while his wife did initially discuss the sale with Pentagon, it was his contract so 
Pentagon should have gone to the requisite lengths to ensure he understood what he 
was buying.
I issued a provisional decision saying we couldnt look at part of Mr Fs complaint. And I 
didnt uphold the aspects of his complaint we could look at. And I said the following:
Mr F has raised a number of complaints points about why hes unhappy with the actions of 
Pentagon. Ive considered everything hes said but Ive not commented on each and every 
point raised. Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key complaint points. No discourtesy 
is meant by this, but simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Pentagon in effect acted in three different capacities in this matter which are as follows:
1. Car sales company;
2. Insurance intermediary; and
3. Credit broker.
Mr F has complained about its actions in respect to all of the above. I shall consider each 
point separately.
Sale of the car
This services role is to look at specific complaints and to look to put things right where we 
feel somethings gone wrong. But we dont have the power to look at every complaint that we 
receive.
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
FCA in accordance with the powers it derives from FSMA. These form part of the FCA 
Handbook.
DISP Rule 2.3.1 sets out what types of complaints we can consider. And it sets out that  in  
respect to the complaint Mr F has brought  that they must relate to an act or omission by 
Pentagon in carrying out a regulated activity or any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by Pentagon in connection with them.
Pentagon falls under our compulsory jurisdiction, so the issue I have to decide is whether 
Pentagon was carrying out a regulated activity in respect to selling the car. The FCA 
handbook sets out all regulated activities. The act of selling a car doesnt fall under the list of regulated activities. So Im not able to consider any of Mr Fs concerns about the sale of the 
car itself. This includes Mr Fs concerns about the type of car he was sold and the add-ons 
he took out with the car  i.e. the safeguard product and delivery charge.
I appreciate Mr F feels strongly Pentagon didnt treat him fairly in respect to the sale of the 
car, but Im unable to consider any aspect of his complaint in respect to this. 
Sale of the insurance policies
While I am unable to consider Pentagons actions in selling the car to Mr F, we can consider 
whether it did what it should have done when selling the insurance policies.
I should first state that this service isnt the regulator of the insurance industry. So its not our 
role to fine and punish businesses. We are a dispute resolution service. Our role is to look at 
whether a business has done what it should have done and, if they didnt do so, look to put 
the consumer back in the position theyd be in had the business done what it should have 
done. What this means is that, it doesnt automatically mean we would require a business to 
pay compensation where it hasnt necessarily followed the required regulatory process. We 
will always consider whether a consumer would have acted differently. 
Mr F says there was a greater onus on Pentagon, given his disability, to ensure he 
understood what he was buying. And I agree with him in this respect. But I also have to take 
into account that Mr F has told us his wife arranged the purchase of the car to minimise the 
stress on him. So he did delegate the authority to his wife to facilitate the purchase. And it 
was fair for Pentagon to discuss everything with his wife. Im also satisfied Mr Fs wife was 
entitled to agree to purchase the car and optional products on his behalf.
That said, Pentagon still needed to give Mr Fs wife enough information to enable her to 
make an informed choice about whether she wanted to buy an insurance policy or not. It 
also needed to clearly set out what shed agreed to purchase on behalf of Mr F. 
Pentagon sold three separate insurance policies and I will consider each policy separately. 
GAP insurance
Mr F has set out industry regulations set out that Pentagon arent allowed to sell GAP 
insurance policies on the same day it sold the car. I dont dispute that this is what the 
regulations sets out. But, as I said above, even if I think Pentagon did something wrong, I 
need to think about whether Mr F would have acted differently.
Mr F and his wife first agreed to acquire the car on 9 May 2018. I can see Pentagon 
completed a demands and needs statement on that day with Mr Fs wife and asked the 
following question: 
Would having protection from financial loss in the event of your car being stolen or written 
off be of benefit to you?
Pentagon recorded Mr Fs wife said yes. It further then set out that it recommended Mr F 
took out GAP insurance. But, while it carried out a fact find and was recommending GAP, I 
think its particularly pertinent to note that GAP wasnt added to the initial finance proposal 
form completed on 9 May 2018, which was when it sold the car and Mr F  through his wife 
 agreed to acquire it. And it wasnt ultimately added to the invoice until 17 May 2018 when 
Mr F collected the vehicle. So I dont agree that the GAP policy was sold on same the day 
Pentagon sold the car.But, even if Pentagon did sell the GAP insurance on same the day it sold the car, I need to 
think about whether Mr F would have done anything differently. As I said, Pentagon asked if 
Mr F wanted the protection GAP gave and either he or his wife said he did. I think its likely 
Mr F and his wife wanted the protection the policy gave. So I think they would have chosen 
to take out the policy regardless of when Pentagon sold it to him.
Ive also thought about whether the policy was mis-sold to Mr F. Pentagon recommended 
the policy to Mr F, so it needed to ensure it was suitable to his needs. GAP insurance covers 
any shortfall in the event the car is stolen or written off and the insurance pay-out isnt 
enough to clear the finance. Given the cash price of the car was around £28,000 and the 
rate of depreciation on a new car, I dont think it was unreasonable to recommend that Mr F 
protect himself from this potential loss. I also think, on balance, Mr F and his wife were 
aware of the protection this policy gave and still chose to take it out. So Im not persuaded 
theyve lost out as a result of this.
Cosmetic damage insurance policy
Mr F says he wasnt aware of what the policy actually covered and he says he wouldnt have 
taken it out had he known what it covered because his car insurance policy already covered 
it. But I dont agree the damage was covered by his insurance policy. The cosmetic damage 
insurance policy covered minor blemishes that arise on the car and its unlikely his car 
insurance policy would have covered this because the cost of rectifying them would have 
been less than the excess on the insurance policy. It would also have impacted his future 
premiums.
I note the demands and needs statement also asked:
Do you think minor dents, chips or light scratches to your vehicle or accidental damage to 
your alloys will affect its value?
Pentagon recorded Mr F and his wife said yes.
Pentagon recommended that Mr F took out this policy. But I dont think its unreasonable it 
did so. It also should be noted that Mr F took out a hire purchase agreement to acquire the 
car. If Mr F returned the car at the end of the finance term, the finance provider would charge 
to repair these scratches. This insurance policy would cover some of these costs. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable Pentagon recommended Mr F took out this policy. 
Mr F says he and his wife didnt understand what he was taking out. But Im satisfied that it 
would have given them a reasonable explanation of what the policy provides. Pentagon 
would also have given Mr F a copy of the policys terms and conditions which set out what 
the policy did and didnt cover. 
I think Mr F and his wife would have understood what the policy did and didnt cover and 
they wanted the protection it gave. So Im not persuaded it mis-sold this policy. 
However, irrespective of what Ive said above, Pentagon has already agreed to refund the 
cost of the insurance policy as well as consider the claim Mr F said he was looking to make. 
So I think its treated him more than fairly. 
Extended warranty policy
I note Mr Fs wife said in an email to Pentagon on 9 May 2018 Thank you we will proceed 
with the [car] .. if we could get a extending warranty in the future for parts. So Im satisfied they specifically asked for an extended warranty on the car. So I dont think this policy was 
mis-sold to Mr F. And Mr F hasnt complained it was mis-sold either.
Summary
I acknowledge Mr Fs comments that Pentagon should have gone to significant lengths to 
ensure the products were suitable for him and to ensure he was aware of what he was 
buying. And hes said he was only in the dealership for eight minutes so wasnt given time to 
review everything. But, as I said, Pentagon had had a detailed conversation with his wife 
beforehand about the sale of everything. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, Ive not 
seen enough for me to say it mis-sold these policies to Mr F. 
Sale of the finance
Pentagon was acting as a credit broker in arranging the finance for Mr F. The FCA set out in 
its rules  the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  that Pentagon needed to give Mr F 
enough information to make an informed choice about whether the agreement was suitable 
for him. The key things we expect them to explain are: 
1. The type of agreement he was taking out;
2. The cost of the finance  i.e. the amount of interest he would pay over the term of the 
finance; and
3. The applicable interest rate (APR).
Mr F says he was told the interest rate was going to be 3% but has since learned he was 
charged 7.31%. He says he and his wife were assured by the salesman that Pentagon 
would honour the deal on the other vehicle they were looking at  that came with finance at 
3%. So he says the finance was mis-sold to him.
Ive considered everything that Mr F and Pentagon has provided, but I dont think Ive seen 
enough to say it mis-sold the finance to Mr F. Ive looked at the finance agreement that Mr F 
signed and this clearly sets out that the interest rate was 7.31%. And I think there has to be 
some responsibility on Mr F to read and understand what he was agreeing to.
I note Mr F says his wife was assured theyd be getting the same deal as the other vehicles 
they were looking at. When they were first looking at acquiring the new car, Mr Fs wife sent 
Pentagon a number of options they were interested in. But Pentagon explained it had 
another higher specification model that it would be able to provide a sizeable discount on. I 
understand it ultimately reduced the asking price on this car by around £11,000  i.e. Mr F 
received a discount of around £11,000.
I understand Pentagon uses two finance providers to enable consumers to acquire a car on 
finance. Pentagon explained that one of the finance providers has an arrangement with the 
manufacturer to provide finance at an interest rate of 3% as part of a manufacturer 
campaign. But it explained this isnt available on all models of cars  which included the 
model Mr F acquired. Pentagon maintains its staff are highly trained and would have 
explained to Mr F that the car he acquired was discounted and didnt come with the 
campaign rate finance.
There isnt a call recording for when Mr Fs wife first spoke to Pentagon when she agreed, 
on Mr Fs behalf, to acquire the car they did. So I dont know for certain what was discussed 
on that call. So Ive thought about whats most likely. I accept its possible they were told the 
interest rate would have been the same rate for the car that they acquired. But its also 
similarly likely that this is what they assumed would be the case.Ultimately, Mr F did sign the finance agreement which clearly set out the cost of credit and 
the applicable interest rate. He also received a sizeable discount off the price of the car and I 
dont think Ive seen enough for me to say he or his wife was given misleading information 
about the interest rate he was being charged.
Pentagon responded to say it didnt have anything further to add. Mr F didnt respond to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to think about I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman