DRN-4384519
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), unfairly turned down his claim made 
about something bought using his credit card.
What happened
In 2017, Mr R, alongside his wife, purchased holiday club membership from a business Ill 
call Business H. This cost £8,495 and was paid by Mr R making a payment of £5,000 using 
his Lloyds credit card and the balance paid by Mrs R using her credit card provided by a 
different lender.1 But this credit card payment wasnt made directly to Business H, rather it 
went to a different business Ill call Business F.
In 2022, using a professional representative (PR), Mr R made a claim to Lloyds under s.75 
and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In short, Mr R said Business H made 
misrepresentations at the time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, Lloyds was jointly 
responsible to answer. He also said that Business H had breached the terms of the 
membership, again something Lloyds could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA. And he said 
the timeshare was voidable due to a breach of Spanish law and the problems with the 
timeshare created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA.
Lloyds responded to Mr R, saying it wouldnt consider the claim until it knew whether Mrs R 
was making a similar claim in respect of her credit card payment. Unhappy with the 
response, he referred a complaint to our service that Lloyds hadnt properly considered his 
claim. After doing so, Lloyds said it didnt have enough to uphold the claims being made. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Lloyds needed to do  
anything further. She thought that there might not have been the right sorts of relationships 
in place to make claims under s.75 and 140A CCA, but even if there were, she didnt think 
the claims would have been successful. She also said he didnt think the timeshare 
agreement was voidable.
PR said that Mr R didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. It provided substantial submissions detailing problems it said there were 
with Business H membership. It also said that there were the right sorts of arrangements in 
place to make claims under the CCA as Business F was acting as trustee for Business H.
I considered the complaint and decided to issue a provisional decision because, although I 
agreed with our investigator that Lloyds didnt need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint, I thought that for different reasons.
I explained that I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And, when doing so, Im required by 
DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
1 In this decision, Im only concerned with the payment made on Mr Rs credit card, so only he is able 
to make this complaint
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
PR brought a claim on Mr Rs behalf under provisions of the CCA. And I thought it was 
helpful to set out those provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as: 
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
I thought the upshot of this is that there needed to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the 
lender (here Lloyds) to be liable to the borrower (here Mr R) for the misrepresentations or 
breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business H). And a D-C-S agreement was also 
needed if the Suppliers acts and/or omissions were to be assessed as part of an 
assessment of unfairness under s.140A CCA. But, on the face of it, there were no such 
arrangements in place at the relevant times as Business H wasnt paid directly using the 
credit card, rather the payments were taken by Business F.
I said there are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the supplier 
isnt paid directly using a credit card. The law in this area had been clarified by the judgment 
in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc [2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner). Steiner 
considered whether there was a D-C-S agreement in circumstances where Business F took 
payment on a credit card in relation to the purchase of timeshare membership from a 
business called C. The court considered the arrangements between the parties and 
concluded that, as the payment to C was made outside of the credit card network, in that 
instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place.
I thought the circumstances of Mr Rs case were very similar. Here, the same business 
(Business F) took payment for Mr Rs purchase of Business H holiday club memberships. 
So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I thought a court would come to a similar conclusion 
and say that there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim. I 
didnt think the position was changed because Business H directed payments be made to 
Business F or because Business F was acting as a trustee  that was the same position as 
in Steiner and I couldnt see either of those reasons meant a D-C-S agreement was in place.
I also considered whether there might be an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mr R 
and Lloyds arising out of the purchases. But again, I could only consider how the 
agreements between Mr R and Business H affected the fairness of the debtor-creditor 
relationship, if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. And, for the same reasons, I 
didnt think such an arrangement was in place, nor had Mr R suggested there was an unfair 
relationship for any other reason.
Under the rules set out above, I must take into account the law, but come to my own 
determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt think it 
would be fair to make Lloyds responsible for Business Hs alleged failures when the law 
didnt impose such a liability  I couldnt see that Lloyds and Business H were connected in 
any way nor was there any other reason to say Lloyds should be responsible for Business 
Hs failings.
Finally, PR said that the agreements with Business H were null and void due to breaches of 
EU law and it pointed to a judgment of a Spanish court that it said was important. In short, 
PR said the Spanish judgment held that certain types of timeshares or holiday club 
memberships were held to be incompatible with Spanish law and the agreements were 
declared nullified. PR said the Spanish legislation was implementing an EU Directive, which 
also had effect within the UK. It said this means Mr Rs membership, as well as the related 
credit agreement, are also null and void. I disagreed for two reasons.
First, the credit agreement in question was for a credit card and that entire agreement couldnt be set aside just because an agreement that may have been funded by the card 
could be rescinded. Secondly, Business H was a company incorporated in the British Virgin 
Islands and the agreement states that it is governed by the laws of the British Virgin Islands. 
I couldnt see why a Spanish court judgment would, or could, apply to the interpretation of 
these agreements.
I followed that I didnt think Lloyds need to answer the claims made.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
PR responded on Mr Rs behalf. It said when he bought the membership he provided his 
card details to Business H and gave it permission to take payment. At that time, he thought 
the payment was being made to Business H  PR provided evidence that showed Mr R 
wasnt present when payment was actually taken. PR also questioned whether Business H 
had a responsibility to tell Mr R that s.75 CCA protection would be removed by the way the 
payment was taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I still dont think Lloyds needs to do anything further to settle 
this complaint.
Ive thought about what PR has said, but I dont think it makes a difference in this case. I 
think the issue is to decide the nature of the arrangements between the creditor, Lloyds, and 
the supplier, Business H, as set out in s.12(b) CCA. There were plainly arrangements 
between Lloyds and Business F, through the credit card scheme, and between Business F 
and Business H. But the question is whether Lloyds made its agreement with Mr R under, or 
in contemplation of, arrangements with Business H. Those arrangements would normally be 
via the credit card scheme, but thats not how Business H was paid.
Unfortunately for Mr R, his understanding of where the payment went or whom he was 
paying isnt something that falls to be considered under s.12(b) CCA. Rather, its an 
assessment of whether the arrangements can give rise to a D-C-S agreement as required by 
the CCA. And, for the reasons set out above, I dont think there is. So I think its fair for 
Lloyds to turn down Mr Rs claim.
Ive also considered whether Business H should have told Mr R that, because of the way 
payment was made, he lost the protection of s.75 CCA. But even if that was the case, it 
wouldnt make Lloyds responsible to answer a claim for what went wrong. And as Lloyds is 
the only business about which I can consider a complaint, I make no finding on this issue.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman