DRN-2923108
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined a theft claim 
he made under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C said his car was given to him as a gift from his parents. The V5 registration 
document was in the name of a family motor trading company. Mr C said his parents are 
joint shareholders in the company. Mr C said his parents are going through a divorce.
In December 2020 Mr C said his stepfather forcibly put Mr Cs car on a recovery truck 
and stole it.
Mr C called the police. Based on the documentation his stepfather provided, the police said 
it was a civil matter. So the police didnt provide a crime reference number. As things stood 
 no crime had occurred.
Mr C made a claim to his insurer, Admiral for the theft of his car and the items inside. But 
Admiral said it couldnt consider his claim until it had a crime reference number from the 
police. Based on what it had, there wasnt enough to show that an insured event  a theft 
 had occurred.
Mr C was very unhappy with Admirals decision and asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator explained that he couldnt recommend Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld. He sympathised with the position Mr C found himself in. But the investigator didnt 
think there was enough evidence to support Mr Cs claim that a theft had occurred.
Mr C didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the impact of not having access to the car has caused significant 
problems for Mr C and his family. My role is to consider whether the actions of the insurer 
Admiral has been fair and reasonable. If they havent, then we can consider the part 
Admiral played in contributing to the inconvenience and losses that Mr C incurred.
I understand Mr C will be very disappointed. But having reviewed all of the information, 
I dont think Admiral has acted unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Mr C has told us that he has made a separate complaint to the police and as of July 2021 
I understand Mr C hadnt received an outcome. Mr C also explained that he is involved in 
court proceedings with his stepfather and this is ongoing.
When a claim is made, its for the customer to prove their claim to the insurer. So in this 
case, its for Mr C to prove his theft claim to Admiral. As the theft of a vehicle is a criminal 
offence, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to seek a crime reference number to 
validate the claim. But as things stand, the police hasnt provided one due to the 
documentation Mr Cs stepfather provided about the ownership/registered keeper of the 
car.
Mr C believes that Admiral should meet his claim as a theft has occurred and he is taking 
action about the theft through the courts. So not having a crime reference number is in his 
view irrelevant. Mr C believes Admiral should assist by looking to recover the costs of Mr 
Cs claim through the courts. Mr C is unhappy that he has lost out on being provided with a 
courtesy car and cover for associated losses as a result of his declined claim.
But I dont think Mr C has yet been able to reasonably support his theft claim. And so it 
follows that I dont think Admiral is responsible for providing any remaining features of 
the policy that come with an accepted claim. However, if things change and new 
information becomes available, I would expect Admiral to reconsider Mr Cs claim.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr C. But I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong. So 
as things stand, Im not asking it to meet his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
Geraldine Newbold 
Ombudsman