DRN-2440114
The complaint
Mr E complains about the suitability of the advice he received in 1993 to contract out of the 
State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). He says the plan wasnt explained to 
him properly and was therefore mis-sold. He would like a refund and the plan to be closed.
What happened
In August 1993 Mr E met with an adviser from the CIS, now part of the Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (Royal London), and took out an appropriate personal pension in 
order to contract out of SERPS. The application confirmed that he was 17 years old, had 
earnings of around £400 per month and wasnt a member of a company pension scheme. 
He was invested in the with-profits fund  which was the only fund available at that time. 
The pension providers rules at the time meant the pivotal age, under which it was believed 
males would be better off contracting out, was 45. There was also a minimum income 
requirement of £4,000 per year. Payments continued into the plan from Mr Es national 
insurance contributions until around 2003 or 2004.  
Mr E said he didnt realise he had a pension, but in 2020 he found some documentation 
relating to the plan. So, as he didnt recall opening a pension plan, he telephoned Royal 
London and complained. He said he didnt know how hed come to take out the plan and 
didnt need it. He wanted to know what his options were.
Royal London didnt uphold his complaint. It said that when it made its recommendation Mr E 
had over 40 years to his retirement age and had earnings above the lower earnings limit. It 
also believed he wasnt eligible to join an occupational pension at that time and that he 
invested into a low risk rated fund option so overall it thought its advice was appropriate. 
Mr E wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said there was no evidence that Royal London had 
mis-sold the pension, so he didnt think it had done anything wrong. He also confirmed 
Mr Es options with regards to drawing benefits and said that he couldnt take any benefits 
from his plan until he was age 55.
Mr E didnt agree. He said he didnt fully understand what he was taking out in 1993 and as 
he stopped making contributions to the plan soon after it began, this demonstrated that it 
had been mis-sold. The investigator said that due to the passage of time there wasnt a lot of 
information about the appointment Mr E had with Royal London in 1993. But based on what 
hed seen the advice was suitable. He also confirmed that just because Mr E stopped his 
contributions didnt mean the plan was mis-sold.
 
Mr E asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
I havent seen anything that makes me think the advice Mr E was given about contracting- 
out of SERPS was unsuitable for him at the time  and I dont intend to recommend that 
Royal London needs to do anything. I know that will disappoint Mr E and I have some 
sympathy for his situation here  so Ill explain my reasons. 
When the government decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS, incentives 
were offered to encourage them to do. No guidance was given on who should be advised to 
remain in SERPS or the type of person it was expected that contracting-out would be 
beneficial for. So pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected 
benefits from SERPS with those from alternative personal pension arrangements. The 
calculations were based on what were felt to be conservative assumptions of future 
investment returned at the time.
The rebates paid by the government for those who contracted-out at the time were set in 
such a way that it was more attractive for younger people to contract-out than those who 
were older. The ages where advice changed about whether to contract-out or not were 
called pivotal ages. 
Ive seen the application form that Mr E signed in August 1993 when he was 17 years old, so 
he was significantly below the pivotal age for men at the time, which in this case was age 45. 
So there was a substantial time and investment horizon remaining until it was likely Mr E 
would retire.
Another factor used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off contracting-out 
of SERPS was their amount of earnings. The application form confirmed that Mr Es income 
was around £400 per month, so he had annual earnings above the relevant lower earnings 
limit of £2,912 in 1993  which was considered to be enough to ensure that rebates 
forwarded by the government would cover plan charges. The form also confirmed that Mr E 
wasnt a member of a relevant superannuation scheme other than one which will provide 
benefits only on my death.
 
So Im satisfied that Mr E met the criteria at the time where there was a reasonable prospect 
that contracting-out could be beneficial, therefore I dont think the advice from Royal London 
was unsuitable. 
Mr E says that he wasnt aware of this plan and that he didnt fully understand what he was 
taking out. He says he didnt need the plan and that it was mis sold. Given the plan was 
arranged nearly thirty years ago its impossible to know exactly what was said to Mr E. 
Theres little documentation available to confirm what he was told about the plan or what 
information he was provided with, so I cant confirm whether it was properly explained to 
Mr E or not. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, and the criteria that was in place to 
qualify for contracting-out of SERPS  I think Royal Londons advice was suitable.
Mr E has said that the fact that he stopped contributions shortly after he took out the plan 
would demonstrate that it was mis-sold. Ive asked Mr E to clarify that statement because its 
not consistent with the information Ive been provided with  that shows contributions were 
paid into the SERPS plan until 2004. And in any case payments were made into the plan 
through the national insurance system with rebates added each year. 
Mr E didnt make any personal contributions from his bank or salary so I dont think he would 
have been aware what payments were being made to the plan.But even if I am wrong about that, he wouldnt have been able to stop the payments as they 
continued as long as he was making national insurance contributions or joined an 
appropriate company pension scheme, in any case the contributions continued into this plan 
for over 10 years. So I cant agree that Mr E either stopped his contributions shortly after the 
plan started or that such an action would have shown the plan to have been mis sold.
Royal London has confirmed that Mr E did apply for a stakeholder pension in 2002 which he 
subsequently cancelled  so its possible that Mr E, after all this time could have confused 
the two plans, especially as he told us that he was unable to remember anything about either 
plan and didnt remember taking out a second plan. 
Ive also given some thought to the fact that there was some investment risk attached to 
Mr Es pension plan and he clearly had no previous investment experience. But the 
contributions were invested into the with-profits fund  which was considered a somewhat 
cautious fund at the time. In any case it was the only fund that was available to Mr E when 
he invested, so I dont think it could be said that his money was invested in too high a risk for 
his circumstances at the time. I think it was a suitable investment for Mr E in 1993, and I 
think the overall recommendation to contract-out of SERPS was appropriate given that 
Mr E met the necessary criteria at the time.  
Mr E has asked about his options with his pension as hed like it to be refunded and closed. 
Unfortunately, the rules relating to pensions dont allow him to draw any benefits from the 
plan until he is 55 years old, so it isnt possible for him to obtain his contributions or benefits 
now. And, as I dont think Royal London has done anything wrong here, Im not going to ask 
it to unwind the plan and refund Mr Es premiums as he requested.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman