DRN-3229463
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by PSA Finance UK Limited 
following the return of her car.
What happened
On 23 December 2017, Miss C was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement 
with PSA. She paid an advance payment of £2,910, and the agreement was for £12,797.10; 
with 36 monthly payments of £238.20, and a final optional payment of £5,012 if she wanted 
to purchase the car. The agreement permitted 6,667 miles a year, with any excess mileage 
being charged at 6.0 pence a mile.
Miss C voluntarily terminated the agreement, and, on 3 September 2019, the car was 
collected. At the time of collection, the car was also inspected for damage by the collection 
agent. Following this, PSA charged Miss C £379.59 for exceeding the allowed mileage, and 
£360.64 for damage to the car that fell outside of reasonable wear and tear.
While Miss C agreed with the charge for the damage to the wing mirror, she disagreed with 
the other charges. And she complained to PSA about them. PSA didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. However, as a gesture of goodwill, they removed the charge for the rear 
alloy wheel and reduced the damage charges by a further 25% - down to £225.48. Miss C 
wasnt happy with PSAs response, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation. 
While the complaint was being investigated, PSA agreed to waive the excess mileage 
charges.
Our investigator said that, under the agreement Miss C signed, PSA are entitled to charge 
for damage to the car that falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines issued by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). And he thought that the damage to 
the car fell outside of these guidelines. So, he said PSA had acted reasonably by charging 
Miss C.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. And she didnt think hed taken into consideration 
how PSA chasing her for payment of the charges had impacted her mental health. So, she 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss C was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Miss C signed on 23 December 2017. This clearly says 
Miss C was required to keep the vehicle in good condition. It also detailed what was and 
wasnt acceptable for the car to be deemed in good condition for the purposes of this 
agreement. So, Im satisfied that Miss C wouldve been reasonably aware of her obligations 
under the agreement.
Ive also seen a copy of the collection agents inspection report. This details damage to the 
bonnet, the front bumper, the left-hand rear door, two alloy wheels, and the wing mirror. As 
Miss C doesnt dispute the damage to the mirror, and because PSA arent charging for the 
damage to the front alloy wheel and have removed the charge for the rear alloy wheel; my 
decision will focus on the remaining damage.
bonnet
The agreement says that any scratch which penetrates the primer coat, dependent upon its 
position on the body, is considered wear and tear. It then goes on to talk about scratches in 
prominent positions. The BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines say that surface scratches of 
25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable provided they 
can be polished out  a maximum of four surface scratches on one panel is acceptable. 
The photographs supplied with the inspection report clearly show multiple scratches to the 
bonnet, which is a prominent position. And the measurement tool in the photograph shows 
that these scratches exceed 25mm. Because of this, Im satisfied this damage falls outside 
of the fair wear and tear guidelines, and PSA can charge for this.
front bumper
The agreement says that multiple scratches to the finish that cannot be removed by buffing 
consist abnormal wear. The BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines say that surface 
scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable 
provided they can be polished out  a maximum of four surface scratches on one panel is 
acceptable.
The photographs supplied with the inspection report show scuffing (multiple close scratches) 
to the front bumper. And the measurement tool shows this scuffing to be more than 25mm. 
So, Im satisfied that this damage falls outside the fair wear and tear guidelines, so PSA 
acted reasonably by charging for this.
rear door
The agreement says that multiple dents in any oner panel and any dent greater than 10 
millimetres in diameter on the bonnet, boot, roof, or above the body moulding lines on the 
sides of the vehicle is considered abnormal. The BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines say 
that dents of 15mm or less are acceptable providing there are no more than two per panel 
and the paint surface is not broken  dents on the roof or swage line of any panel are not 
acceptable.  For clarity, a swage line is a crease or curvature in the side of the body used to 
create visual distinction.The photographs supplied with the inspection report clearly shows a dent in the swage line 
on the rear door. And, from what I can see, the measurement tool in the photograph shows 
the dent to be around 20mm in width. Because of this, Im satisfied that this damage falls 
outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines, and PSA can charge for this.
Miss C is also unhappy about PSA chasing her for payment of the charges, and how this has 
affected her. Its clear that Miss C disputed the fees and refused to pay these. As such, I 
appreciate why shed find any attempts to collect these unwanted and unacceptable. But, as 
Ive stated above, PSA were entitled to charge for the damage to the car and were therefore 
entitled to attempt to collect these charges. So, Im satisfied that PSA acted reasonably by 
doing so.
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss C, I wont 
be asking PSA to reduce or waive any of the damage charges.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about PSA Finance UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman