DRN-3443393
The complaint
Miss E complains Funding Circle Ltd failed to complete sufficient due diligence before 
allowing her to invest into a crowdfunding opportunity. She says this has resulted in her 
suffering a financial loss.
What happened
Miss E holds a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer to peer lending platform. It is 
an automated account where loan parts are bought and sold on behalf of Miss E based on a 
set criteria  including risk profile. Miss Es account had a balanced risk profile  meaning 
she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk categories (A+ to E rated loans).
The loan subject to the complaint was first accepted on Funding Circles platform in June 
2018. In August 2018, Miss E was allocated a loan into her account by Funding Circle. The 
borrower successfully made loan repayments for around a year. In January 2020, it became 
a bad debt, the loan went into default and Funding Circle started proceedings to recover 
funds. In June 2021, the debt was sold to a third party and Funding Circle confirmed there 
would be no further recovery payments.
In April 2021, Miss E complained to Funding Circle. She said Funding Circle failed in the way 
it carried out due diligence on the borrower before allowing her to invest in the loan. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said that it didnt misrepresent the 
loan. With regards to due diligence it said its credit analytics team have developed a risk 
model built on a complex structure that analyses a very large range of data. Much of the 
information sourced is from credit agencies and data suppliers, and the information supplied 
by the borrower is then used to support this. It used the company accounts for the year- end 
31 May 2017, which were the most recent financial accounts available to review.
It also said the loan was correctly presented, showing that there was one other outstanding 
loan before the latest approval. The outstanding loan was settled with proceeds from the 
latest facility approved on 30 July 2018.
Miss E didnt accept the response, so referred her to complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it - in summary he said:
- He obtained the financial information and the accounts Funding Circle gathered from 
the borrower in order to carry out its due diligence. He was satisfied that there was 
nothing within the financial documentation which would indicate that there were any 
issues with the borrower or that it was inappropriate for the loan to be acquired on 
Miss Es account. He didnt think Funding Circle acted outside of how it described the 
function of the account.
- He noted Miss Es comments that Funding Circle should have obtained more recent 
accounts. But at the time of the loan application (18 July 2018), the most recent 
financial statement that had been filed was 31 May 2017. Accounts endings 31 May 
2018 would not have been filed until February 2019, after the date of application. 
Therefore, had Funding Circle obtained accounts for 31 May 2018, it would not have 
been able to carry out any verification and so it was reasonable for it to use the latest 
accounts that had been filed i.e. account ending 31 May 2017. He was also satisfied 
the financial statements for the year-end 31 May 2017 confirmed that there was a 
figure of £199,212 in relation to 'Creditors: amount falling due after more than one 
year'.
- Although Miss E queried the financial information displayed by Funding Circle 
regarding the borrower, as the loan was purchased via the automated lending tool 
she would not have reviewed any information before investing in the loan. As such he 
didnt believe this information would have had a bearing on whether or not the loan 
parts were allocated to her account.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She highlighted extracts from 
Funding Circles website about requirements for borrowers applying for loans. These include 
that management accounts may be requested, depending on the age of the most recently 
filed accounts. She questioned how old filed accounts have to be before Funding Circle ask 
for management accounts and investors have the right to believe this would happen. She 
said her complaint is not about saying Funding Circle should have got more up-to-date 
accounts, but why it is allowed to say it does, when it didnt. 
As Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Es complaint is about the due diligence Funding Circle undertook before 
allocating a loan to her crowdfunding account. Essentially, she believes failings in the due 
diligence led to her being allocated a loan that she shouldnt have  and is now facing losses 
as the loan defaulted. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Funding 
Circle. Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are 
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are: 
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
And Ive borne in mind that the FCAs consultation papers on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and 
investment-based crowdfunding platforms  including the references to the due diligence 
expectations placed on platforms. 
As explained above, the loan subject to this complaint was added to Miss Es account as 
part of the automated loan allocation process. This means she didnt select the loan after 
reviewing a promotion  so Im not considering whether she was provided with misleading 
information before deciding whether to invest. But rather whether Funding Circle acted in her 
best interests by allowing the loan to be available for allocation to her based on the selected 
investment criteria for her account. This included the due diligence it completed before 
allowing her to invest. 
Miss E has raised concerns about the use of the year-end May 2017 accounts by Funding 
Circle as part of its due diligence. Her expatiation was that it would have obtained more up to 
date management accounts and by not doing this it was negligent to investors to give a loan 
until the borrower produced up to date accounts. She believes obtaining more up to date 
accounts would have either changed the risk level of the loan or led to it not being accepted 
 and ultimately led to it not being allocated to her account. Shes also made reference to 
information on Funding Circles website that indicates that it may also request management 
accounts from borrowers, depending on the age of the most recently filed / formally prepared 
accounts. 
Funding Circle has explained that it used the the most recent accounts filed at Companies 
House  which was for the year-end May 2017. It said the borrower wasnt required to file 
accounts for the year-end May 2018 until February 2019. But it also obtained further credit 
related information which meant it used up to date financial information to allow it to 
ascertain the borrowers current levels of affordability before it accepted the loan. 
I dont agree that it would be fair to say Funding Circle have been negligent by using the 
2017 accounts as part of its due diligence. The next accounts werent due for several 
months after the loan was applied for. It is correct that the accounts it obtained were 13 
months old by the time the loan was accepted - but these were the most up to date filed 
accounts. So, I think the approach taken (i.e to use these accounts) was reasonable when 
considering Funding Circles obligations to investors. I say this because the 2017 accounts 
also werent the only information Funding Circle relied on before accepting the loan. 
Funding Circle has provided this service with the evidence it collated further up to date credit 
and financial statements on the borrower before accepting the loan and making it available 
on the platform. 
Miss E has raised concerns Funding Circle didnt accurately reflect the outstanding loans the 
borrower had through the due diligence completed. She has referred to the financial 
summary included on the loan profile on Funding Circles website. She says this didnt show 
there were any outstanding loans but the up to date management accounts would have 
showed that the borrower had increased the level of loans. Firstly, I think it is worth clarifying 
again that Miss E didnt self-select this loan to invest in after reading a pitch on Funding 
Circles website, it was allocated to her account using the function of the automated lending 
tool. So, Im satisfied it cant be said she relied on the information she now highlights before 
investing. Funding Circle says the accounts it relied on showed that the borrower had 
outstanding amounts falling due after more than one year of £199,212 and this is the same 
figure as Miss E has referenced. Ive reviewed the information Funding Circle collated about 
outstanding liabilities. Im satisfied the information displayed on the financial summary does 
reflect the financial statements Funding Circle obtained from the borrower and for the reasons Ive explained, I think it was reasonable for it to rely on this information when 
accepting the loan on the platform. 
I have considered the points Miss Es makes about the information from Funding Circles 
website about obtaining management accounts. This information isnt produced for investors 
but is aimed to provide information to potential borrowers on the platform. So, it doesnt 
directly relate to Funding Circles obligations towards investors. It also only says 
management accounts may be requested. But in any case, I dont think the references to the 
possibility of requesting management accounts means Funding Circle has failed to act in 
Miss Es best interest by not requesting them as part of its due diligence of this loan. For the 
reason described above, Im satisfied Funding Circle did meets it obligations to Miss E 
before it allowed the loan to be allocated.
Having reviewed the circumstances of this loan and the relevant evidence, I dont find that 
Funding Circle is responsible for the losses Miss E has incurred. Ive found that Funding 
Circle did act in a fair and reasonable way when allocating to the loan to her account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman