The complaint
Mr H complains he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Although the 
policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted responsibility 
for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mr H took out a store card in 1998. At the same time, he was sold a PPI policy.
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit equivalent to 15% of the store cards outstanding 
balance if Mr H was unable to work due to ill-health, an accident or if he lost her job. This 
would continue until either Mr H returned to work or the balance was cleared. Our 
adjudicator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mr H that the PPI was optional. Mr H cant recall taking out PPI 
with the card.
Mr H applied for the store card during a visit to a store.
AXA has shown us a copy of the original store card application form signed by Mr H. The 
application was completed by hand. I cant be sure who completed the form, but I can see 
that the credit agreement was completed with personal details including Mr Hs name, 
address and telephone number. The option to add a second cardholder has been selected, 
and the second cardholder has signed the application as well as Mr H. So even if it were 
filled in by a member of staff, I think it must have been completed during a conversation with 
Mr H, before being passed to him to check and sign.
I can see there is a section about Account Cover, which was the name of AXAs PPI on the 
application form. This section states, Only sign this box if you require account cover. And I 
DRN-1692249can see Mr H has signed in this section separately to his signature applying for the store 
card.
After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Mr H didnt 
have to take out the PPI to obtain the store card and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant remember this after so many years.
I dont think AXA advised Mr H to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for him. But AXA did have to give Mr H clear information so 
that he could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it 
doesnt look like the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint.    
I next need to decide whether or not Mr H would have changed his mind about buying the 
policy if he had been given better or clearer information. I cant say he would have done. I 
say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the PPI based on his circumstances at the time of the sale. So, hed 
have been able to make a claim if he needed to.
If Mr H couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit every month 
until the balance was cleared, or he returned to work. And it wouldve paid the same benefit 
if Mr H lost his job.
Mr H would have received some sick pay from his employer, but he has said it was subject 
to management discretion so couldnt be guaranteed. But the PPI could have paid a benefit 
in addition to any sick pay. And potentially it could have paid a benefit for longer than his full 
sick pay would last. So, I still think Mr H could have found the policy useful, particularly if he 
had been unable to work for a prolonged period.
And the policy would have paid a monthly benefit if Mr H lost his job.
Mr H had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed him to keep his savings intact or 
use them for other living costs if he became unable to work.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Mr H wasnt affected by these. For 
instance, Mr H has told us he didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the sale 
which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Mr H was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to his account. And I think that even if Mr H had been given 
clear information about the policy hed still have gone ahead and bought it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.Steve Thomas
Ombudsman