DRN-2899928
The complaint
Mr C complains that the charges Standard Life Assurance Limited have levied on his 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) are in excess of those he agreed to pay. And he says 
that the language Standard Life has used in its communications with him has been 
deliberately designed to confuse, and conceal the true situation.
What happened
Mr C has held pension savings with Standard Life for many years. In the lead up to the 
events comprising his complaint he held his pension savings in two plans. He had a Pension 
Fund Withdrawal Plan (PFWP) and a SIPP. His PFWP was only available to him until he 
reached the age of 75. Mr C reached 75 years in April 2020 and so shortly before he 
engaged the services of a financial advisor to review his pension arrangements.
The advice that Mr C accepted saw two activities take place. First, the pension savings 
already held in his SIPP were invested into a new fund. And, second, the pension savings he 
held in the PFWP were added to those he already held in the SIPP. So, by the end of that 
activity Mr C only held one pension product with Standard Life  a SIPP. And all the monies 
in that SIPP were invested into a single investment fund.
Before the monies from the PFWP were added to the SIPP, Mr C and his financial advisor 
had a number of telephone and written communications with Standard Life about the 
charges that would be levied on the plan. Standard Life accepts that the information it 
provided at that time was incorrect. It failed to make it clear to Mr C that, in addition to a fund 
management charge levied by the investment fund administrator, he would also be required 
to pay an additional monthly fund administration charge and a yearly administration charge 
to Standard Life.
When Mr C complained to Standard Life about those charges, as Ive already said, 
Standard Life accepted that some of the information it had given to him had been incorrect. 
But it thought the incorrect information had been provided after the reinvestment of the 
original SIPP assets (but before the transfer of the monies from the PFWP). So it didnt think 
it should refund the annual administration charge. But, as a gesture of goodwill it paid Mr C 
£250 to reflect the monthly administration charges he would need to pay over a 12-month 
period, and the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr C didnt accept that offer so brought his complaint to this Service. His complaint has been 
assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the terms and conditions governing 
the charges on Mr Cs SIPP were clearly set out in the document Standard Life had sent to 
the financial advisor. He didnt think any incorrect information Standard Life had 
subsequently provided should replace those terms and conditions. So he thought that the 
charges Standard Life had taken from Mr C had been reasonable. And he thought that the 
compensation Standard Life had paid Mr C was fair in the circumstances. So he didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. He thought that he held a legally binding contract 
with Standard Life based on the incorrect information hed been given about the applicable 
charges. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties. I also confirm Mr Cs understanding that, if he doesnt accept 
my final decision, he may still be able to take the complaint to Court..
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There are some matters that I think would benefit from clarification before I consider the 
substance of Mr Cs complaint.
Before deciding on the changes to his pension arrangements Mr C was given advice by a 
financial advisor. But this complaint only concerns Mr Cs relationship with Standard Life. So 
it wouldnt be right for me to look in any detail here about what happened between Mr C and 
his financial advisor. Whilst I make some comments below about that relationship I want to 
be clear that I do so without any suggestion of fault. But it is clear that the relationship would 
have played at least some part in the decisions Mr C made.
As I have said earlier, Mr C has held a SIPP with Standard Life for many years  it seems 
his SIPP was first opened in 2006. Over time the terms and conditions applicable to that 
SIPP will have changed. And that is allowed within those terms  providing Standard Life 
gives appropriate notice of the changes to Mr C. I havent seen anything that makes me 
think Standard Life has changed any of the terms without appropriate authority to do so.
So, in terms of the decisions Mr C made about his pension in 2020, Standard Life was only 
responsible for providing information. Otherwise it was simply acting on the directions given 
by Mr C and his financial advisor. It wasnt for Standard Life to ensure that the actions Mr C 
took were in his best interests, or that any differences in the pension products had been 
sufficiently explained to him by the financial advisor.
I think it would also be helpful for me to clarify how Standard Life charges for the SIPP that it 
provided to Mr C.The administrators of investments held in the SIPP will levy a fund management charge. For 
Mr Cs original investment that charge was set at 1%. But the new fund that Mr C moved his 
pension savings into only had a fund management charge of 0.22%. Standard Life also 
categorised potential SIPP investments into three levels (or rings). Assets in level 1 did not 
attract any additional charges. But assets in levels 2 and 3 did attract additional charges  
for level 2 investments (such as that switched to by Mr C) Standard Life levied both a 
monthly and annual administration charge. And, importantly, the annual charge was based 
on the highest-level asset held at any time during the previous year.
I think the changes that Mr C made in 2020 fell into two distinct, but related, transactions. He 
first changed the way in which his existing SIPP assets were invested. And then he added 
some further funds to his SIPP by transfer from his PFWP. I think it right that I should deal 
with each in turn.
Mr C first moved his existing SIPP assets to the new investment  that change took place on 
11 March 2020. I havent seen anything to suggest that Standard Life had given him 
incorrect information about the charge categories that would be applicable before that 
change had been made. I can see that Standard Life had sent an illustration regarding the 
reinvestment of Mr Cs PFWP monies a couple of days earlier. And although that document 
showed incorrect (higher) values for the charges that would be applicable it directed Mr C to 
the Your Investment Choices and Charges document for more information.
As I have said earlier, at that time, Mr C was receiving advice about the changes from his 
financial advisor. So it was the advisors responsibility to ensure that Mr C was made aware 
of the additional charges before the change was made. It does seem to me that might not 
have happened  but, as I also said above, it isnt appropriate in this decision for me to 
consider why that failure occurred. I am however satisfied that it wasnt as a result of 
something that Standard Life did wrong.
After the initial fund switch had been completed, it seems that Mr C and his financial advisor 
considered the illustration in more detail, and raised some questions of Standard Life about 
the charging information it set out. And it is in those conversation that Standard Life admits it 
made a series of errors. In summary it failed to adequately set out either the annual, or 
monthly, administration charges that it would take from Mr Cs pension savings for being 
invested in level 2 assets.
I think the timing of the changes, and the incorrect information being provided is important. 
The initial switch into the level 2 fund took place (for the existing SIPP monies) before any 
incorrect information had been provided by Standard Life. So even if nothing had gone 
wrong Mr C would still have been liable for the annual administration charge for holding 
level 2 investments. And my understanding is that the full years charge would be payable 
even if Mr C had moved his investments to a level 1 fund, or even another provider, the 
following day. So I cannot reasonably say that the incorrect information Standard Life 
provided had any impact on Mr Cs liability to pay the full annual administration charge.
Mr C has said that he considers his verbal and written discussions with Standard Life to form 
the basis of a binding contract. And that means that he shouldnt be required to pay either 
the monthly or annual administration charges. But Im sorry to tell him that I dont agree. I think the basis of the contract was the application form Mr C completed and signed. And on 
that form Mr C agreed to be bound by the SIPP terms and conditions. Those terms then 
referenced both the way that the charges would be collected, and the need to refer to the 
separate charges guide for further information. Had Standard Life agreed to vary the 
standard charges to the extent that Mr C believes had been agreed in the earlier 
correspondence I would have expected those changes to be clearly marked on the 
application form. I accept that in his covering letter Mr C did refer to the charges discussions 
that had taken place. But I dont think that alone was sufficient to alter the normal terms 
applicable to his SIPP.
As I have explained earlier, I think that Mr C had incurred a liability to pay the annual 
administration charge before Standard Life gave him any incorrect information. But I accept 
it is possible that, had the charging information been later explained correctly, he might have 
not transferred the monies from the PFWP, and potentially changed the investment of his 
other SIPP monies. It is even possible that he might have moved his entire pension savings 
to another provider.
The error that Standard Life made was in March 2020, and it seems that Mr C discovered 
the problems, and was made aware of the correct charging structure, by August 2020 at the 
latest. Standard Life was quite clear in its various responses that the full charges were 
applicable and would be continued to be charged. So I think that, at the very least, Mr C had 
the opportunity at that time to mitigate any of his losses by either transferring his investments 
to a level 1 fund, or by moving his pension savings to another provider.
The monthly administration charges would be calculated as being one twelfth of 0.6% of 
Mr Cs pension savings. So each month Mr C would need to pay approximately £13. But in 
response to Mr Cs complaint Standard Life has refunded one years worth of monthly 
charges plus an additional sum for the trouble and upset he has been caused. Given that 
any information failings had been corrected within at most five months I think what 
Standard Life has paid to Mr C is fair.
For completeness I have considered how I would have viewed the complaint had I thought 
(which for the avoidance of doubt I dont) that Mr Cs discussions with Standard Life had 
formed the basis of a contract. I have noted that the terms and conditions of the SIPP allow 
Standard Life to vary the charges by giving three months notice. So even if I had thought 
that a binding agreement had been created (which I dont), I think Standard Lifes letters in 
response to the complaint could be seen as sufficient (after three months notice) to alter the 
fees that could be charged. So again that would lead me to conclude that the compensation 
Standard Life has paid is adequate.
In considering matters relating to pension products it is sometimes difficult for providers to 
avoid using overly technical terms or industry jargon. I face the same difficulties in some 
decisions I write  although I hope that my findings are sufficiently clear that Mr C is able to 
understand them. I havent seen anything that makes me think that Standard Life has 
deliberately set out to confuse, or misdirect Mr C in its communications with him.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr C. I think that he incurred a liability 
for the annual management charge before Standard Life led him to believe no charge was 
payable. And I think that Standard Life has done enough to compensate Mr C for the 
monthly charges he has incurred during the time before Standard Life corrected the incorrect 
information it had provided. I dont think that Standard Lifes discussions with Mr C were 
sufficient to alter the standard terms under which the SIPP operated. But even if I did, I think 
Standard Life could be considered to have exercised its rights, by giving three months 
notice, to reset the charges to their standard levels.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman