DRN-3198806
The complaint
Mr B complains Williams Group Maidstone Limited unfairly refused to provide a refund 
for a mis-sold motor warranty policy.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr B bought a car from Williams Group. At the same time he was sold a 
Williams Platinum Plus Cover policy for £995. He says he was told it would cover any 
problem with his car, only excluding wear and tear problems. 
But later, when reading the terms, he found there were more exclusions and a £2,000 
claim limit. So a couple of weeks after buying the policy Mr B called Williams Group to 
cancel it and get a refund. But Williams Group refused to provide any refund at all.
Mr Bs complaint is that Williams Groups unfairly refused to refund him any of the 
premium. He also complains he was mis-sold the cover. He wants a full refund.
When one of this services investigators contacted Williams Group it said we dont have the 
authority to consider Mr Bs complaint. It said the warranty isnt a regulated contract of 
insurance, so falls outside of our jurisdiction.
In September 2021 the investigator said he considered the warranty a contract of 
insurance. He felt we could consider Mr Bs complaint. He went on to say the policy 
probably was mis- sold. He recommended Williams Group provide Mr B with a refund of 
the premium.
Mr B was satisfied with the proposed resolution. Williams Group wasnt. It didnt agree to 
provide a refund. So the complaint was passed to me. It wasnt clear if Williams Group 
accepted this services power to consider this complaint. So for completeness, in January 
2022, I issued a jurisdiction decision. In it I set out why I considered that this service does 
have the authority to consider the merits of this complaint. 
At the same time I provided Mr B and Williams Group with my initial thoughts on the merits 
of the complaint. I said it had acted unfairly by refusing him a refund, regardless of the 
policy terms. I said I intended to require it to pay him £982 to cover a pro-rata premium 
refund  plus £75 compensation. Mr B accepted my findings. As Williams Group didnt 
respond Im issuing a formal written decision along the same lines.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is required to consider the law, regulations and policy terms. But ultimately we 
consider whats fair and reasonable. We dont usually consider it fair or reasonable for a 
policyholder not to be provided with any refund when cancelling a contract of insurance 
(unless there has been a claim against the cover). Its not reasonable for a firm to profit from 
a period when its not at risk of a claim being made against the policy.
So regardless of the policy terms, or the information provided to Mr B during the sale, we 
would expect a refund to be provided  proportionate to the policy period remaining. So 
Williams Group treated Mr B unfairly and unreasonably by not providing a refund when he 
requested one.
Mr B says he first requested a refund earlier than 14 days into the policy. Williams Groups 
said it was later than 14 days. Either way, he was still entitled to a proportionate refund. The 
only material difference is a few extra days of premium refund. For ease and compromise 
Im going to say the refund should be calculated as though he requested it 14 days after the 
policy started.
So to put things right Williams Group will need to provide Mr B with a pro-rata refund of his 
premium from day 14. The premium including VAT was £995. The policy was for 36 
months. So I calculate the refund to be £982.
As Williams Group failed to provide a refund in mid-April 2021 it caused Mr B to unfairly be 
without those funds for about nine months. So to make up for that simple interest, at 8%, 
will need to be added to the refund  from the date a refund was first requested to the date 
of settlement. 
Williams Groups decision to unfairly refuse a refund has caused Mr B some 
inconvenience and a little distress. Hes had to spend time and effort dealing with the 
issue. To recognise that Williams Group will need to pay him £75 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Williams Group Maidstone Limited needs to pay Mr B:
£982 as refund of his policy premiums (simple interest at 8% will need to be added to 
this from mid-April 2021 to the date of settlement) and
£75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman