DRN-2568967
The complaint
Ms B and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell them theyd missed a 
mortgage payment. It recorded the missed payment on their credit files as arrears. Ms B and 
Mr S would like Nationwide to remove this and compensate them for not being able to re-
mortgage at a lower rate.
What happened
Ms B and Mr Ss mortgage payment due in April 2020 wasnt made as they didnt have 
enough funds in their current account. Ms B and Mr S say Nationwide didnt tell them theyd 
missed the payment until August 2020. 
Ms B and Mr S had applied successfully for a payment holiday which started in May 2020. In 
accordance with the regulators guidelines at that time this didnt affect their credit file. When 
the payment holiday ended Nationwide told Ms B and Mr S theyd missed a payment in April 
2020. Ms B and Mr S say if Nationwide had told them this at the time theyd have made the 
payment immediately and avoided having arrears recorded on their credit files. 
Our investigator said Nationwide had given Mr S and Ms B enough information for them to 
know theyd missed the payment. The information it reported to the credit reference 
agencies wasnt unfair.
Ms B and Mr S didnt agree. Ms B said theyd put funds into the account after they received 
a text about insufficient funds, but thought the mortgage payment was returned as part of the 
payment holiday. She said while they could have given this more thought this was a 
particularly stressful time for them working fulltime without childcare for their young children. 
Ms B says due to the arrears on their credit reports they were unable to re-mortgage at a 
better rate. Theyd like compensation for this as well as their credit file amended. She said 
they werent treated fairly. She said if Nationwide had told them about the problem theyd 
have made the payment immediately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Customers are responsible for making their mortgage payments, or where a direct debit is in 
place for ensuring there are sufficient funds available. Ms B and Mr Ss mortgage payment 
due in April 2020 wasnt made as they didnt have enough funds available in their current 
account. 
Nationwide has to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference 
agencies. I dont think Nationwide made an error when it reported that Mr S and Ms B had 
missed a payment to the credit reference agencies. Their credit files show they were in one 
months arrears from April to July 2020. They made a payment to clear the arrears in August 
2020. 
Ms B and Mr S say Nationwide should remove the adverse data from their credit files. They 
say its unfair as Nationwide didnt tell them thered been a problem with the payment. And 
they say they were able and willing to make the payment and would have done so if 
Nationwide had contacted them.
Nationwide wrote to Ms B and Mr S in early April 2020 confirming their payment holiday 
would be in effect from 1 May 2020 to 31 July 2020. It said payments of zero were expected 
for May, June and July 2020. Theres nothing in the letter to suggest the April payment didnt 
need to be made.
Nationwide sent a text at about 8am on 25 April saying your accountdoesnt have enough 
money for todays payments(s) totalling [about £1,000]. Please pay in enough cleared funds 
by 2.30pm so all your payment(s) can be sent.
The text didnt say this related to the mortgage payment. However, it seems unlikely Mr S 
and Ms B expected to make more than one payment of this amount that day. Ms B and Mr S 
would have known the mortgage payment was due, and Ms B had made a transfer into the 
account the day before (unfortunately not quite enough to cover the mortgage payment). I 
think they must reasonably have known this text referred to the mortgage payment. 
Ms B and Mr S said they checked the account and saw the payment was returned, but 
thought this was because of the payment holiday. But the payment holiday wasnt due to 
start until May. And this isnt consistent with the text message theyd received, which said 
there wasnt enough funds in the account for the payments due that day. 
If Mr S and Ms B werent sure about what had happened, or what to do about the payment, 
they could have contacted Nationwide.
I dont think the payment was missed due to an error by Nationwide, or that Nationwide 
needed to do more to make Ms B and Mr S aware of what had happened. Ive considered 
whether theres anything else that would make it fair to require Nationwide to remove the 
arrears from Mr S and Ms Bs credit file. While I know they will be disappointed, I dont think 
there is.
Ms B and Mr S had until the end of April to make the payment without it being late. Ms B 
says they put funds into the account after receiving the text on 25 April. She says they put 
their account into credit five working days after the payment failed, demonstrating they could 
make the payment. But to avoid a missed or late payment being recorded on their credit file, 
Ms B and Mr S would have had to make the payment before the end of April 2020. These 
funds werent available until May 2020  too late to avoid a late or missed payment being 
recorded.
Nationwide says it doesnt write to customers about arrears during payment holidays. Ms B 
says it should have contacted them before the payment holiday started in May. But 
Nationwide did contact them. It sent them a text saying there werent enough funds for the 
payments due from their account. 
Nationwide wrote to Ms B and Mr S in early July 2020 saying their payment holiday was 
about to end and setting out their new monthly payment. This letter also said they were in 
arrears of about £1,000 which would have to be paid back separately. Nationwide wrote to 
Ms B and Mr S in mid-August 2020 asking them to call about their account. Mr B and Ms S 
made a payment to clear the arrears in August 2020. Ms B says this was a particularly stressful time and I have a lot of sympathy with that. Credit 
reference agencies can allow customers to add notes explaining adverse data and Mr B and 
Ms S could look into this. I dont think though that I can fairly require Nationwide to remove 
the arrears from their account, or pay compensation. 
Ms B and Mr Ss April mortgage payment was missed, and I dont think this was due to an 
error by Nationwide. Ms B and Mr S didnt ensure there was enough money in their account 
to cover the mortgage payment  despite receiving a text message about this. And while 
they put more money into the account in May, this was too late to have made the payment in 
time to avoid a late or missed payment being recorded. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman