DRN-2567236
The complaint
Ms H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited lost her personal documentation 
when she made a claim on her joint life insurance policy following the death of her husband.
 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Aviva had confirmed 
the documents arrived at its office but were then lost. She was satisfied that if documents 
are received but not filed properly, they would eventually be destroyed because Aviva would 
assume the documents had already been scanned. She added that the £200 offer for the 
trouble and upset caused, the waiving of a £40 premium and paying additional interest of 
£287.39 on the claim settlement was fair. 
Ms H didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Aviva had given 
different explanations on what may have happened to the documents and what steps it took 
to try and find them. She said Aviva hadnt confirmed to her previously that the documents 
had been destroyed and she wasnt satisfied her personal information hadnt been 
compromised. Ms H added that she has had to change bank account and that she moved 
address. So, she didnt think Avivas offer was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, I was sorry to hear about the death of Ms Hs husband and Id like to offer her my 
condolences for her loss. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive carefully considered what both Ms H and Aviva have said here. Its not possible for me 
to guarantee to Ms H that the documents Aviva lost have now been destroyed. I can 
understand why she is concerned with Avivas handling of those documents and her 
personal information. In the absence of any evidence to show these documents have fallen 
into the wrong hands, Im satisfied  on balance  its more likely than not the documents 
were processed incorrectly by Aviva and that led to them being destroyed. Which is why it 
cannot find the documents so they can be returned to Ms H. 
I note Ms H has had to change her bank account and that she didnt feel safe at her old 
address, so she has now moved. Im very sorry to hear this. I accept its always troubling to 
hear your personal documentation and information has gone missing and that it could 
potentially be in the wrong hands. But I need to consider whether Avivas offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and in line with awards this service would make in similar 
cases. Having done so, Im satisfied it is. Although I understand the reasons Ms H took the 
actions she did, Im satisfied the documents were more likely than not to have been 
destroyed. So, Avivas offer to pay £200 for the trouble and upset is fair. 
I also note Aviva decided to pay interest on the claim and waive a monthly premium to 
recognise the delays it had caused. I think thats fair in all the circumstances. 
So, I wont be asking it to do anything more here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman