DRN-3795077
The complaint
Mr N complains that Tesco Mobile Limited (Tesco) mis-sold him mobile phone insurance as 
it didnt tell him about the insurance excess. 
What happened
Mr N bought a phone on a contract from Tesco. At the same time, he took out mobile phone 
insurance through Tesco. About a month later, Mr N fell over and broke his phone. The 
insurer accepted the claim and asked him to pay the excess fee of £85. But Mr N said that 
was unaffordable. He said he had limited income and the excess hadnt been explained to 
him when he bought the phone. He said he wouldnt have bought the phone had he known 
the excess was so high. He also said he was partially sighted and used the technology on 
the phone to help him with his sight.
Mr N left his phone with Tesco and bought another phone on contract with a separate 
business. He said he couldnt afford both contracts and so cancelled his direct debit 
payments to Tesco. He complained to Tesco that his phone had been mis-sold to him and 
asked it to cancel the contract without any charges. 
Tesco apologised if the excess hadnt been mentioned in the sales process, but it said it was 
part of its sales script. It said the excess was also confirmed in the welcome pack it sent to 
Mr N. It said it had offered to refer the matter to its additional support team in light of Mr Ns 
circumstances but hed declined. Mr N had an outstanding balance on his account and 
Tesco said it would pass the matter to its debt management agent if it wasnt paid within 30 
days. Mr N wasnt happy with this response so brought his complaint to this service. He said 
Tesco had offered to reduce the excess to £40 but hed bought another phone by then and 
he couldnt afford to have two phones.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. He thought Tesco had made Mr N aware of 
the excess fee. He also thought Tesco had acted fairly and reasonably when trying to help 
Mr N with his vulnerability. So, he didnt think Tesco needed to do anything more.
As Mr N didnt agree, his complaint has been forwarded to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment
for Mr N but for the reasons I provide below I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
As Mr Ns policy was sold to him on an advised basis, Tesco needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for him. That would include establishing if Mr N had a 
need for insurance and whether he had cover elsewhere that could provide the same 
benefits. Tesco also had a responsibility to provide clear, fair and non-misleading information 
about the cover provided, so that Mr N could make an informed decision about whether or 
not to buy it. To make an informed decision about whether to take a policy out, a consumer 
should be made aware of the type of cover provided and any significant or unusual 
restrictions. 
Mr N says the excess wasnt explained to him when he bought the phone and the insurance. 
And he says he wouldnt have bought the phone had he known the excess was so high. 
Tesco has provided the insurance sales script which it says would have been read aloud to 
Mr N. It said the screen (and the sales script) is also shown to the customer at the point of 
sale. But it would expect its agent to read it out to the customer particularly if, like Mr N, the 
customer said they found it difficult to read. The sales script starts by saying the regulatory 
requirements must be read out word for word to the account holder. Tescos agent should 
then summarise how the cover will work and say they will then email the full terms and 
conditions to them afterwards. It then says the Tesco agent must inform the customer of 
several bullet pointed key features of the policy. And the second bullet point says that the 
excess fee for an accidental damage claim is £85.
Theres no note of the conversation Mr N had with Tesco when he bought his phone so I 
cant be sure what was said. And in circumstances such as this, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and wider circumstances. 
Its possible that Tesco didnt read out the insurance script when Mr N bought the phone. But 
I think its unlikely Tesco would sell insurance without explaining the terms and conditions of 
its use. And, in light of the emphasis in the sales script about reading out the regulatory 
requirements, I think its more likely than not that Tescos agent did mention the excess fee 
of £85.
In addition, Tesco says it sent a welcome pack to Mr N by email a short while after he 
bought the phone. Its provided evidence that this was sent to Mr N. The welcome pack 
provided a summary of the policy and the full terms and conditions. I can see that the 
summary highlighted the claim excess fee of £85 for a damaged device. And the full terms 
and conditions explain how the insurer would apply the excess fee set out in the welcome 
pack. I recognise that Mr N is partially sighted and reading the small print in the terms and 
conditions is likely to be difficult. But I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr N notified 
Tesco he would have difficulties reading the welcome pack that was sent to him. And I dont 
think it would be fair to say Tesco treated Mr N unreasonably without something to show it 
failed to adapt its approach when it should have done. 
In light of the above, and on balance, I dont think Tesco mis-sold the mobile phone 
insurance policy to Mr N. As such, I dont think it needs to do anything more in relation to this 
matter.
As our investigator noted, Tesco offered to put Mr N in contact with its additional support 
team after he made a claim, and in light of his circumstances. But Mr N refused. Tesco later 
offered to reduce the excess by £40. But Mr N declined to take it up on this offer as hed 
bought another phone by this point, and he wanted to end his contract. That may be so, but I 
can see that Tesco tried to engage with Mr N to help resolve the situation. And so, while Im 
sorry to hear about the problems Mr N experienced, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Tesco to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman