DRN-3826828
The complaint
Mr P complains that Next Risk Solutions Limited charged him a cancellation fee when he 
wanted to change the van insured on his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P said he was forced to cancel his policy with Next Risk. And he thought this was unfair 
as he had to pay a cancellation fee.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She listened to a 
call Mr P made to Next Risk. She thought he called to cancel the policy, not to change the 
van on cover. And so she thought Next Risk had correctly applied the policys terms and 
conditions. 
Mr P replied that Next Risk wouldnt let him change his van without paying a cancellation 
fee. He thought it had charged him too much for his time on cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P feels frustrated that hes been asked to a pay a sum to end his 
old policy when he no longer owns the van. Mr P said he paid for his new policy in full and so 
paying the outstanding balance for his old policy is causing him financial difficulties. I was 
sorry to hear this. 
Mr P said he felt forced to cancel his policy when he wanted to change the van on cover. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its 
Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably.
Next Risk provided Mr P with recordings of the calls he made relevant to his complaint, and 
we have received these too. In the first call, on 18 July 2022, Mr P said hed called to cancel 
his policy. He said hed had to replace his van and hed taken out a new policy elsewhere as 
Next Risk was closed at the time. The cancellation charges were then discussed, and Mr P 
was told that there was outstanding amount of £186.81 due. Mr P was unhappy with this and 
wanted to arrange a repayment plan. I didnt hear Mr P say that he wanted to swap his van 
over or that Next Risk forced him to cancel the policy. 
Mr P thought part of this call was missing, but I didnt hear any silent pauses in the recording 
I listened to. 
In a later call, Mr P asked Next Risk for a quote for a new policy for his new van. He said if it 
could match or beat his new policy, then hed cancel his new policy. And he thought this 
could be provided without incurring any cancellation charges. But Next Risk said it couldnt 
match the price for the new policy Mr P had found. And Mr P would still have to pay 
cancellation charges. 
So, although I can understand that Mr P may have thought that he could simply swap his 
van over on his policy, he called Next Risk to cancel his policy and not to make a swap. So I 
cant say that Next Risk forced him to cancel his policy. 
Next Risk then applied the cancellation charges that were applicable. I can see that these 
are clearly set out in its Terms of Business and so Im satisfied they were brought to Mr Ps 
attention when he took out his policy and that its fair for Next Risk to apply them. 
I can also see that Next Risk was sympathetic about Mr Ps financial situation and made 
several offers to set up an affordable repayment plan to clear the debt. So Im satisfied that 
Next Risk has acted in keeping with its Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably. And so 
I cant say its done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman