DRN-4313518
The complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed down an account for which she was a 
joint account holder, without proper notice.
What happened
On 29 March 2023, Miss L received a letter from Barclays advising her that it was going to 
close down an account for which she was a joint account holder with her former partner. It 
gave her 60 days notice. She had banked with Barclays for 10 years and felt that it had 
treated her with a lack of respect and empathy as she had previously been a victim of abuse. 
She said it caused her a lot of stress and inconvenience.
On 18 April 2023, Miss L was advised by Barclays that it was closing the account 
immediately. It did tell her that if any wages or benefits came into the account she would be 
able to withdraw these in cash at her local branch.
Barclays responded to Miss L's complaint on 5 April 2023 so before its later decision to close 
the account immediately. It said that it was closing the account in accordance with its internal 
guidelines which it was unable to share with Miss L. However it assured her that every case 
was considered on an individual basis. It denied that it had shown a lack of empathy and 
said all of its advisers were intensively trained to be polite, respectful, friendly and well 
informed.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Barclays explained to our Adjudicator that 
it did have good reason to close the account immediately. Our Adjudicator said that Barclays 
had acted in accordance with these terms and conditions and that it had a good reason for 
closing the account both initially with notice and then immediately.
Miss L responded that she didn't have a problem with the account being closed but rather 
that she did not have access to her benefit payments for over two months because the 
account was closed.
Our Adjudicator noted that Miss Ls benefits payment would have been paid after 24 April 
and that she had raised a further complaint with Barclays about this. She explained that as 
this was a separate complaint which had not yet been dealt with by Barclays, only the issue 
of the closure of the accounts could be dealt with under this particular complaint.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Adjudicator has explained, I can only deal in this decision with Barclays decision to 
close Miss Ls account. The question of Miss Ls access to funds paid into the account after 
the closure will be dealt with as a separate complaint, either by Barclays or, should it be 
necessary, Miss L can refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I note that Miss L accepts that Barclays had the right to close her account under its terms 
and conditions. There are stricter terms for closing the account without notice which our 
Adjudicator has shared with Miss L. Barclays does have guidelines for closing an account 
without notice and each case is considered on an individual basis. I can't share with Miss L 
the exact reasons for closing her account as this information is provided to us on a 
confidential basis. However I am satisfied that Barclays acted within its guidelines in closing 
the account. I understand that no adverse markers have been placed against Miss L either 
on Barclays internal database or on any external database such as her credit record.
I know that the account had a zero balance at the time of its closure, so there was no 
prejudice caused to Miss L at that time. And I know that Miss L now banks elsewhere and is 
happy with that.
In respect of Miss Ls complaint that Barclays treated her with a lack of empathy, I've noted 
Barclays response in that respect and without any further information about this I don't think I 
could take it any further. But I do note that Barclays when responding to her gave her details 
of organisations that might be able to help her. Which tells me it understood her situation, 
that its decision may impact her and tried to offer assistance to limit that. I think that was 
reasonably empathetic of it.
So, as I think that Barclays acted reasonably in closing the account and as Miss L accepts 
that position, I can't uphold her complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman