DRN-3857529
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not refund all the disputed transactions he claimed 
for.
 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here.
In summary, Mr J claimed a number of transactions on his account were made fraudulently 
by a family member without his knowledge and that these totalled between £10,000 and 
£20,000. 
Mr J raised a fraud claim and Lloyds initially rejected this as they felt the payments made via 
the GP app and to a retailer Ill call X were more likely genuine. However, when Mr J 
raised the complaint with our service, Lloyds agreed to refund all remaining amounts of the 
transactions totalling £115.90 plus 8% interest because they no longer had the evidence that 
they relied on to reject Mr Js claim. 
Mr J felt this did not account for the all transactions that had been ongoing for four years, so 
the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Mr J says that payments had been made to GP and X over a four-year period and he wanted 
all of these refunded, not just the ones from October 2020. Hes said that he raised this as 
an issue previously, but payments continued to leave his account. 
Ive gone through Mr Js fraud claim history which Lloyds has provided. The first mention of 
possible fraud was in 2017, where Mr J was concerned an individual may have been able to 
use his card details. But this did not result in any fraudulent transactions and was not related 
to GP or X.  
In July 2018, Mr J made a disputed transactions claim relating to a series of payments to a 
food shop and online shopping companies which were all refunded. But none of these 
payments were to GP or X. 
In December 2018 and January 2019, there is a contact note on Mr Js file in which he 
mentions fraud occurring on his account. He says that he will go into the branch to discuss 
this but its unclear if he ever did and there is then no fraud investigation that starts after that 
point. Having looked at Mr Js statement, there is one individual payment via GP for £3.99 in 
October 2018, but no other transactions to GP or X. Looking at this, I dont think that Lloyds 
has made an error when it did not start a fraud investigation at that point as it does not 
appear Mr J took this any further at that time. 
Finally in May 2020, Mr J went to a Lloyds branch to drop off statements following a 
conversation with the fraud team and there is a contact note relating to this on Mr Js file. I 
can see this did correspond with a series of payments in late April and early May 2020 via 
GP. When asked about this, Lloyds confirms there is no fraud reference relating to this 
branch visit and it does not appear that this claim went any further. And these payments 
were then not raised or discussed in October 2020 when Mr J made a further claim. They 
have also said that Mr J was advised to specify which payments on his statement were 
fraudulent and they could not see this was done. They said that simply dropping the 
statements off wouldnt raise the fraud claim as he would need to discuss this with a member 
of the fraud team.
Looking at the note, it does appear more likely that Mr J dropped off statements that 
highlighted the specific payments he was disputing, and that these were then forwarded to 
the fraud team. Its therefore unclear why a disputed transactions claim was not raised and 
its possible there was a miscommunication or the statements did not reach the fraud team. 
Considering this, I do think the onus was on Mr J to chase this and to contact the fraud team 
again directly, but there are no notes to suggest this happened. I say this because Mr J was 
passing on the statements to the fraud team and would have been aware of when he went 
into the branch to do so. And when he didnt receive a response about this, its reasonable to 
expect that he contact the fraud team directly about it.
I cant see any mention of these disputed transactions when Mr J raised a claim in October 
2020. So, on balance, I dont think it is unreasonable that Lloyds did not raise a claim for the 
April and May 2020 transactions. It should be noted that the time limit for a chargeback to be 
raised is 120 days, meaning a claim cannot now be raised for these transactions.   
Looking at the October 2020 claim, Im satisfied that the offer Lloyds made for £115.90 plus 
8% simple interest will put Mr J back in the position he would have been in had Lloyds not 
re-debited some of the chargebacks. They have made it clear that the offer has been made 
because they no longer have the evidence that was relied upon to decline the disputed 
transactions claim and does not necessarily mean the claim would have succeeded. 
Because of this, I think the offer is fair in the circumstances. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I can see no evidence that Mr J specifically raised a claim 
relating to GP or X prior to May 2020. And the only previous transaction to those companies 
before April 2020 was the individual payment to GP for £3.99 in October 2018. I have seen 
no evidence of the transactions or amounts Mr J has mentioned in his submissions to our 
service. I dont think it is unreasonable that a claim for the April and May transactions was 
not raised and I currently think the offer made by Lloyds is a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.
Neither Mr J nor Lloyds responded with any additional comments or evidence for me to 
consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has added anything, I see no reason to deviate from the findings set out 
above. 
I therefore think the offer made by Lloyds for £115.90, plus 8% simple interest, is fair in the 
circumstances, for the reasons outlined above.
My final decision
I now direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr J the offer of £115.90, plus 8% simple interest. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman