DRN-2822907
The complaint
Ms Ms complaint is about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled her 
claim under her buildings and contents insurance following an escape of water in her cellar, 
and she doesnt think RSAs settlement offer is enough.
What happened
Ms M claimed under her policy for an escape of water which flooded her cellar. RSA 
accepted the claim and repaired the leaking pipe. Two months later, her cellar flooded again. 
RSA accepted her claim, but Ms M thought it was responsible for the damage because it 
mustnt have properly repaired the pipe. RSA said it fixed the source of the leak, but it 
wouldnt have needed to check the rest of the pipework, so it wasnt at fault. But it didnt 
think it had communicated well with Ms M and paid her £200 compensation.
The appointed surveyor provided a schedule of works for repairs to five rooms in the cellar 
affected by the leak, costing £2,317.74. RSA issued a certificate after drying out the property 
but noted that there was a problem with rising damp. Ms M got two builders quotes, pricing 
the work at over £50,000. RSA appointed a second surveyor to assess the damage, which 
agreed with the first surveyors costing. Ms M complained because RSAs schedule of work 
didnt cover all the damage; its approach to her claim was piecemeal, and shed lost 
income from rental of her cellar.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the key element of 
complaint was the settlement amount but there was no evidence to show that the offer was 
inadequate. Our investigator didnt think RSA had done anything wrong.
Ms M didnt agree. She supplied another independent quote for the work needed, but our 
investigator didnt think the information warranted any change to the outcome. The complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the following reasons. 
Theres no conclusive evidence to show that RSA was responsible for the pipe leaking a 
second time. As the escape of water originated from a different part of the pipe, which it 
wouldnt have been expected to check at the time of the first leak, I cant fairly say that the 
second leak was caused by anything RSA did or didnt do.
That said, RSA did respond to Ms Ms concerns in a way which caused her upset  
suggesting the repair had been altered. RSA awarded £200 compensation for its poor 
communication. As this shortfall didnt affect the outcome of her claim, I think the 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. RSA doesnt need to pay any more.
Ms Ms policy requires RSA to put her back in the same position she was in before the leak. 
While Ms M thinks it should repair the walls, ceiling and other fixtures, Ive not seen any 
evidence in the reports showing the leaks caused damage beyond that which RSA has 
already agreed to cover. RSA relied on its expert reports, and I think thats fair because they 
inspected the damage. Im satisfied RSA offered a fair settlement to cover the work caused 
by the leak in line with the policy and any work beyond that would be betterment.
Ms M complained about the safety of the work done near the electrical wires. RSA provided 
details of the safety requirements, which it has met, and which are different from the 
standards Ms M quoted. I think RSAs contractors wouldve worked to the latest rules, and I 
havent seen any evidence to the contrary. Im not asking RSA to do anything here.
Ive seen that Ms M provided a further report about the water damage. The report was 
completed 18 months after the original claim, so its reasonable that RSA couldnt conclude 
the damage was from the original leaks. RSAs report at the time of the claim highlighted an 
existing and unrelated problem with rising damp. I have no reason to doubt that when it 
issued its drying certificate, it had restored the cellar to its pre-claim condition. So, it wouldnt 
be fair to ask RSA to complete further work, now, which would constitute betterment. 
RSA offered a cash settlement for the cost of the damage covered under the policy. Having 
compared the offer to the schedule of work, and considering all other evidence, Im satisfied 
that the offer is fair. I see no reason for RSA to increase its offer.
Ms M thinks RSA handled her claim in a piecemeal way. It seems she is referring, mainly to 
the cellar floor. From the evidence, I can see that RSAs flooring contractor tried to contact 
Ms M several times over a couple of months, and then stopped trying. I wouldnt expect it to 
try indefinitely and I can understand it wouldve expected Ms M to get back in touch. I dont 
think RSA has done anything wrong by assigning work to the appropriate specialists.
Briefly, I understand Ms M lost rental income because of the leak. She may wish to check 
her policy to see whether it offers any cover for loss of rental income or, if she has a 
landlords policy, she may be able to make a separate claim under that.   
 
Overall, Im satisfied that RSA handled Ms Ms claim fairly and in line with the terms of the 
policy. It apologised for the poor communication, paid £200 compensation, and it offered to 
cash settle the claim at the cost of repairs, less excess, in line with the terms of the policy. I 
dont think RSA needs to do any more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman