DRN-1514942
The complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mrs C took out in 2001. It was added to her 
account at some point after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint because I dont think Barclays made clear to Mrs C 
that she had a choice about buying the policy. This is because it has no call recordings or 
scripts used during the sale, and Mrs C says she wasnt given a choice. So, I think Mrs C 
took out the policy even though she didnt really want it.
So, I think Mrs C has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Barclayss comments, including what it said about Mrs C already 
having the credit card when she was sold the PPI and that it thinks the adviser wouldnt have 
added it without her consent. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. Its likely that the 
sale happened during an activation call, and Mrs C wouldnt have known the credit card was 
activated until after the PPI sale. And while Barclays thinks the adviser wouldve obtained 
Mrs Cs consent, it has no compelling evidence (such as relevant sales process documents 
or call scripts) that shows this was part of the sales process at the time. So Im not 
persuaded by its argument.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
Barclays should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
If  when Barclays works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs C wouldve 
owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
Barclays should tell Mrs C what its done to work out the above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC  should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman