DRN-2909901
The complaint
Ms M, as executor of the late Mr S estate, has raised a complaint about the mortgage that 
the late Mr S held with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
In a decision in August 2021 I set out which parts of this complaint we could and couldnt 
consider. In that I said the points we could consider were that:
Halifax didnt initially agree a sale at undervalue which meant extra interest accrued 
on the mortgage debt.
Halifax said it would send documents, but they werent received.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and as Ms M didnt agreed it had been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
I understand that the estate of Mr S wanted to sell the property as quickly as possible but 
unfortunately the property was in negative equity. This meant that Halifax had to agree to 
any sale as it could possibly lead to it not receiving the full amount back that was owed to it 
as the debt would become unsecured, and so if there wasnt enough money in the estate 
then the remainder would have to be written off. Thats completely normal and what I would 
expect.
Halifax was entitled to set a minimum amount that it was willing to allow the property to be 
sold for  which would still result in a shortfall of over £50,000  and not go any lower than 
that. I understand the estate would have liked Halifax to accept an offer that was a few 
thousand pounds beneath that, but it simply didnt have to. The fact the estate obtained 
offers at the minimum price Halifax said it would accept showed that figure wasnt 
unreasonable. 
Halifax also said a fresh valuation could be undertaken if the estate thought the original 
figure it was basing its decisions on was too high. Halifax didnt need that fresh valuation as 
it already had one it was satisfied with, it would have been for the benefit of the estate as it 
didnt agree with the original figure. Thats why Halifax said the estate would need to pay for 
it.
All the time the debt remains outstanding interest accrues on it. Again, thats normal  even 
where the mortgage holder has died  and isnt something I can interfere with. 
I understand Halifax didnt send the documents to Ms M when it said it would. Halifax has 
accepted it made a mistake there and included that error in its decision to offer £500 
compensation (with a further £200 later being offered on top of that). Whilst I understand that 
compensation also encompassed some other issues, I cant consider those here and the 
£700 isnt broken down into a set amount for each issue. All I can consider here is whether I 
feel further compensation  on top of that £700  is due for the failure to send those 
documents to Ms M when Halifax said it would.
Theres been no proven financial loss to the estate for the documents not being sent to Ms M 
when Halifax said it would as weve nothing to show a sale would definitely have completed 
sooner (and/or for a higher amount) had this failing not happened, so theres nothing I can 
award there. All Im looking at is the inconvenience caused to the estate for this issue. 
Having considered everything theres simply no grounds for me to make an award over and 
above the £700 already offered by Halifax for the inconvenience caused to the estate.
Whilst I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms M and her mother as I can see how incredibly 
difficult and distressing it has been, I can only consider a complaint brought by the estate of 
Mr S rather than from Ms M and her mother personally. Having considered everything I 
simply cant award any more compensation, however much Ms M may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that I consider a fair offer was made by Halifax in 
its response to the complaint. I leave it to the estate of Mr S to contact Halifax directly if  on 
reflection  it now wants to accept the offer of £700 (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman