DRN-2215454
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Tesco Personal Finance PLC. He isnt happy about the way it 
refunded some of his premium under his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr W was due a small refund under his motor insurance policy and isnt happy that Tesco 
made the refund to the card he originally used for payment. Tesco explained it is its policy to 
make refunds to the card that payment was first made from. 
As Mr W remained unhappy he complained to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he sympathised with Mr W he didnt 
think that Tesco had done anything wrong in following its own procedures which are aimed 
at reducing fraudulent activity and criminality.
But Mr W still thought that Tesco shouldnt have refunded part of his premium to his original 
account. So the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W has complained and why he feels Tesco shouldve sent his 
refund to a different account or by a different method. But that doesnt mean Tesco has done 
something wrong and I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Tesco has a set procedure for making refunds to its customers and this is in part due to 
money laundering issues. I accept that this shouldnt affect Mr W, especially as the refund 
was for a very small amount. But I dont expect Tesco to have separate procedures in place 
for every eventuality and I dont think its procedure is unreasonable. 
Furthermore, Tesco makes it clear within its terms and conditions that it will refund any 
payment to the card that a customer used to pay for their policy. This can be varied but I 
dont think Tesco has acted unreasonably in following its established procedures in this 
instance.
I know Mr W doubts that the refund has been made to the card he used to make payment, 
but Tesco has evidenced that it has made the refund. And it has provided details in order to 
help Mr W get his refund back from the card provider if he wishes, which seems fair.
So, although I can understand why Mr W wants the refund to a different account I cant say 
Tesco has acted unreasonably in refunding the small deposit to the card Mr W paid for his 
insurance on. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman