DRN-3024385
The complaint
Mr D complains with the help of a professional representative that Aviva Life & Pensions Ltd 
(Aviva) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of his Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) and into a Personal Pension.
What happened
In 1992 Aviva recommended that Mr D transfer out of his OPS into a Personal Pension  
and he accepted this advice and the transfer was completed.
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, instructed authorised 
firms to review certain pension business, including pension transfers that had happened 
between 29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994.
Aviva carried out a review and sent the outcome of its review to Mr D as part of phase 2 of 
the review. Aviva says its records show that Mr D accepted the offer of a review and the 
redress that came from it. The offer of redress was made in April 2001.
More recently Mr Ds representative complained that Mr D wouldve received a significantly 
higher pension if he had not been given unsuitable advice in 1992. It requested that Aviva 
paid Mr D compensation in line with the Financial Conduct Authority's (FCA) updated 
FG17/9 guidance.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, it said it had already reviewed the sale in line with the 
regulators guidance and it wasnt obliged to review the sale again. However, Mr Ds 
representatives say that the review couldve been wrong and so it should be re-done.
Our investigator asked Aviva for a copy of its review documentation but Aviva said it only 
had a screenshot of its systems which show the review was carried out and redress paid. It 
then later provided some additional information.
Our investigator issued her recommendation and initially said Aviva should re-run the 
calculation unless it could provide further information. She came to this conclusion because 
Aviva had provided a memo which said the fund percentages in the calculation were 
incorrect. But the evidence didnt show whether this had been corrected in the calculation.
Aviva responded with additional arguments and information. It explained that it had checked 
the figures involved and after the changes to the correct fund percentages Mr D wouldve 
been worse off. So either it did the review correctly or its mistake benefitted Mr D. But either 
way Mr D was not worse off because of this initial error.
Mr Ds representatives said as Aviva hadnt retained all the information from the review at 
the time, they couldnt demonstrate it had been done correctly and therefore it should be 
reviewed again using FG17/9.
Our investigator responded to say that this on its own wasnt enough to say the review was 
done incorrectly  and she didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the Pension Review applicable?
Both parties agree the Pension Review process was the correct way to address this 
situation. And for the avoidance of doubt, I think it was the correct way to address the 
transfer back in 2001. The regulator intended it to be applied in these circumstances.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer  it is not required to 
look at the matter again. Providing the review addressed the circumstances of the complaint 
and had been carried out in line with the relevant guidance. I think this represents a fair and 
reasonable position when considering this complaint.
Avivas position
Avivas position is that it has already considered Mr Ds transfer in-line with the SIB Pension 
Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past Business  
Statement of Policy on 25 October 1994 and updated by subsequent regulators thereafter. 
And so, it has no obligation under the guidance to look at this again.
Mr Ds representatives position
Mr Ds representative says that the review in 2001 wasnt carried out correctly and the 
calculation should be re-done but instead using the updated FG17/9 review guidance. 
Mr Ds representative says that the review was done incorrectly but hasnt provided any 
evidence to say why. Other than there have been reviews done incorrectly so its possible 
this one was done incorrectly as well. Its also said that Aviva were required to retain the 
documentation indefinitely so that it could be independently reviewed. And as it hasnt done 
so, it cannot demonstrate in line with FG17/9 that it carried out the review in line with the 
guidance at the time  and the particular circumstances of the case were addressed.
Was there a mistake in the original review?
Aviva hasnt retained all of the documentation from the time of the review as it was required 
to do so. But this doesnt mean they didnt carry out the review in line with the guidance at 
the time.
What Aviva does have is a screenshot that the review was carried out, that Mr D accepted it 
and the amount of redress it paid. It also has evidence that it contacted Mr Ds OPS scheme 
to get the information to base his OPS benefit part of the calculation on. And it has evidence 
to show the pension review calculation came back from Direct Pensions (presumably where 
Aviva outsourced their calculations)  and Avivas pension review specialist team noticed  
the fund percentages for Mr Ds protected rights were incorrect and asked for it to be 
corrected. But we dont have evidence to say whether it was corrected after this point. 
However, Aviva have shown us that the correction wouldve increased the value of Mr Ds 
personal pension and therefore reduced the redress due. So, either it didnt do the correction 
and Mr D received more redress than he shouldve done, or it was corrected and Mr D received the correct redress. Either way Mr D shouldnt be worse off due to this issue.
Where we dont have all the information we require, we have to make a decision on the 
balance of probabilities. From the evidence we do have its clear that Mr Ds policy was part 
of the pension review, Aviva did carry out calculations and Mr D was compensated. As we 
dont have all the documentation from the time, its not possible to check all of the inputs into 
the calculation. And whilst Aviva shouldve retained this information, it is now some twenty 
years after the calculation was carried out. Mr Ds complaint about the review being wrong is 
also speculative  its not based on anything specific to him. And at the time he wouldve 
been provided with information about the calculation, the assumptions it was based on, and 
given the opportunity to say if something didnt look right. However, he accepted the result of 
the review then.
Furthermore, the regulator provided assumptions and a framework for firms to use when 
carrying out the loss calculations. At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies 
to do much of the reviews. And businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal 
and external quality checks by the regulator. In our experience the large majority of 
calculations have been calculated in line with the regulators guidance. Given Aviva collected 
information about Mr Ds scheme, it knew the personal pension inputs as it administered the 
policy and its reviews were subject to internal checking (and a sample checked externally), I 
think the review was on the balance of probabilities likely carried out in line with the 
guidance.
So I think its more likely than not that Mr Ds  Pension Review was in accordance with the 
regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review of the transaction at the time 
and the particular circumstances of the case were addressed by those standards.
Conclusions
The pension review was a one-off exercise and in 2001 Mr D agreed a final settlement in 
respect of the transfer advice he received. Only in limited circumstances would I look beyond 
that agreement. That would include where the calculation was done incorrectly. But the 
evidence Ive seen suggests it likely was done correctly. And so, I dont think theres any 
reason for me to require Aviva to redo the redress calculation using the FG/17 guidance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman