DRN-2370446
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he took possession of under a hire purchase 
(HP) agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
Mr A took possession of a car in late 2018. The on road price of the car was £39,325.
The dealership gave Mr A £29,750 part exchange allowance and a finance deposit 
allowance of £7,922.88  total £37,672.88.
The dealership then settled Mr As existing finance on his part exchanged car of £37,479.63 
leaving a net balance of £193.25. This sum, together with a further payment from Mr A of 
£200, was used as a deposit leaving a balance of £38,931.75 to be financed.
Mr A financed the sum of £38,931.75 by way of an HP agreement with VWFS. Under this 
agreement, everything else being equal, Mr A undertook to pay:
48 monthly payments of £568.44
1 monthly payment of £14,748.75 (in month 49)
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that Mr A 
had been provided with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality and that VWFS should:
accept rejection of the car
mark the HP agreement as cancelled
refund Mr A the deposit he paid of £393.25
refund any monthly payments made by Mr A after 5 December 2019
pay Mr A £300 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused by this matter
However, Mr A should repay to the dealership/manufacturer the £2,500 he had accepted in 
respect of this complaint and pay VWFS £7,729.63 for what VWFS refers to as negative 
equity on his part exchanged car (£37,479.63 - £29,750).
Neither party accepted the investigators view so Mr As complaint was passed to me for 
review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. They have both 
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive 
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that both parties will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. I would also point out that where the information Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear or contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. VWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. 
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
VWFS supplied Mr A with a brand new car. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
would expect the level of quality to be higher than a second-hand, more road-worn car. And 
that it could be used  free from defects  for a considerable period of time. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen from both parties, it seems likely there was one or more 
faults with the car which were present or developing when Mr A took possession of it. I say 
this because, amongst other things, the number of times of the car has been returned to the 
supplying dealership for investigation and repair, how soon after Mr A took possession of the 
car that he felt the need to return it to the supplying dealership for investigation and repair 
and the fact that car has, on more than one occasion, broken down requiring a recovery 
agent to attend.
Given what I say above what I now need to decide is what VWFS should have to do to fairly 
compensate Mr A.
Firstly I think its entirely fair and reasonable that Mr A should be able to reject the car. But 
that isnt the end of the matter. In my view Mr A should also be compensated for the time he 
has been without the car (because it was with the supplying dealership for investigation and 
repair) and for the time he was with the car but it wasnt performing as it should.Now under the terms of the HP agreement Mr A was permitted to travel, without incurring a 
charge, 833 miles a month. Now given that Mr A has evidenced that after 22 months the car 
had travelled 13,490 miles (against an allowance of 18,326) I think its only fair that Mr A 
have refunded to him 30% of each and every monthly payment of £568.44 he has made to 
VWFS to reflect the time he has been without the car and for the time he was with the car 
but it wasnt performing as it should. I also think that VWFS should pay Mr A £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused him.
Now I can see that the investigator found that Mr A should have to repay to the 
dealership/manufacturer £2,500 and VWFS £7,729.63.
Now I agree that Mr A should have to repay the £2,500, but Im not persuaded that he 
should have to pay £7,729.63 for what VWFS refers to as negative equity.
Having looked at the vehicle order form its my understanding that Mr A received from the 
supplying dealership (not VWFS) £37,672.88 and £37,479.63 of this was used to clear the 
outstanding finance on the car Mr A part exchanged, leaving a sum of £193.25.
Now I appreciate the vehicle order form breaks down the sum of £37,672.88 into two 
components, £29,750 titled part exchange allowance and £7,922.88 titled finance deposit 
allowance. But in my view whatever these two sums were called Mr A received from the 
supplying dealership (not VWFS) £37,672.88 which he used to clear in full his exiting 
finance. So in my view there is no negative equity for Mr A to have to repay now.
For the sake of completeness I would also add that the supplying dealership has confirmed 
to our service that the finance deposit allowance it gave Mr A of £7,922.88 would have been 
given regardless of whether he was, or wasnt, part exchanging an existing car and 
regardless of whether any such car was or wasnt subject to outstanding finance.
It can also be seen from the vehicle order form that Mr A used the residual sum of £193.25 
noted above and a further £200, as a cash deposit towards the car subject to this complaint 
and taking everything into account I, like the investigator, think this sum of £393.25 should 
be returned to Mr A.
VWFS responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr A responded to say he accepted my provisional decision but thought he should also be 
refunded two recent costs he had incurred in respect of the car totalling approximately £450.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now I accept that Mr A says that he has incurred further costs in respect of the car that he 
would like refunded to him. But having considered these costs very carefully, and given that 
approximately £440 of these relate to the cars age and mileage rather than its quality, it 
being in respect of a service, and given that I took a holistic approach when deciding fair 
compensation in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded it would be appropriate to make 
a specific award for these costs.
So given what I say above and given that VWFS has provided nothing new for my 
consideration I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them 
as final.My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
arrange collection of the car at no cost to Mr A
refund to Mr A the deposit paid of £393.25 adding 8% simple interest per year* to this 
sum, calculated from the date Mr A paid it to the date its refunded
refund to Mr A 30% of all the monthly payments he has made since the HP 
agreement started adding 8% simple interest per year* to each monthly refund from 
the date Mr A paid it to the date its refunded
pay Mr A £500 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused him
arrange for Mr As HP agreement to be marked as settled with credit reference 
agencies and for any adverse information recorded in respect of the same to be 
removed
reduce the above calculated sum by £2,500 to reflect the payment already made to 
Mr A in respect of this complaint by the dealership/manufacturer
indemnify Mr A from any claim made against him by the dealership/manufacturer for 
the return of the £2,500 paid to him by it in respect of this complaint
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take tax 
off this interest. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must give Mr A a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr A asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman