DRN-1864866
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain, through their solicitor, that they were given unsuitable investment 
advice by Barclays bank UK PLC because:
The adviser didnt take account of the recent significant change to their 
circumstances and the fact that they were not able to make decisions about risk-
based investments.
They were advised to invest too much of their available capital.
They were advised to take too much risk with their capital.
They were unlikely to be able to replace any capital they lost through investing.
What happened
In 2007 Mr S was advised to invest £7,500 in the Barclays Multi Manager Growth Portfolio 
(£7,000 in an ISA and £500 in a unit-trust) and Mrs S was advised to invest £7,500 in the 
Barclays Manager Balanced portfolio (£7,000 in an ISA and £500 in a unit trust). They 
surrendered their investments at a loss in September 2014. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the adviser had explained that customers in 
their position would ordinarily be considered low-risk investors but that they told the adviser 
they wanted to pursue a balanced/adventurous attitude to risk as they felt the higher 
exposure would be more appropriate to achieve their capital growth objectives.
Barclays said the amount invested was suitable given it left them with a reserve of £5,000 
and their net monthly income showed they could replace the £15,000 within two years.
Barclays noted their recent house move and their health conditions but was satisfied that it 
was appropriate for them to be given investment advice and it wasnt satisfied they werent 
able to make important financial decisions.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He noted 
Mr and Mrs Ss assessed risk appetites  adventurous for Mr S and balanced for Mrs S  but 
didnt think this was a basis for the adviser recommending investments which exposed them 
to high levels of risk. 
He said he didnt think Mr and Mrs S wouldve understood the risks of the investments. He 
thought they shouldve been advised to invest in investments with lower risk and that 
Barclays should calculate redress on that basis.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigator. It said it was satisfied that the suitability letter 
clearly evidences that risk - both in general and specific terms  was comprehensively 
explained and Mr and Mrs D had a clear understanding of this.
Barclays referred to the suitability report stating:You felt that the balanced risk part would give you a greater chance of achieving the level of 
investment returns you are looking for on some of the money but as you are seeking to 
achieve a more aggressive level of growth on the other part and had confidence in the UK 
and global equity markets over a medium to long term period you felt that this is the best 
way to achieve the level of capital growth on the total amount being invested whilst keeping 
in line with your acceptable level of tolerance and capacity for risk.
It said this along with the point of sale documentation evidenced that Mr and MrsS wanted 
the approach that was recommended.
The investigator responded and said it wouldve been the adviser who selected the funds 
and he didnt accept Mr and Mrs S wouldve understood the level of risk given their 
circumstances. He said it was unlikely they wouldve understood equities and it was more 
likely the adviser who decided more equity exposure was needed to achieve the growth they 
wanted. He thought the reference in the suitability report to Mr and Mrs S having confidence 
in the UK and global equity markets was more likely to have been the advisers belief, not 
theirs.
As Barclays didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The solicitor raised several complaint points on behalf of Mr and Mrs D. But I think whether 
this complaint should be upheld comes down to whether they were advised to take too much 
risk with their money. 
I dont think they were advised to invest too much - given they were left with a £5,000 cash 
reserve and had a significant net disposable income which wouldve allowed them to replace 
the money invested within a reasonable time.
I also dont think their health, meant advise shouldnt have been given. I acknowledge that 
they both had health conditions. But I dont think these were a significant concern. The fact 
find shows they didnt have significant ongoing health needs and records that they both 
thought of themselves as in fairly good health.
So, I think the complaint turns on whether the risk of the recommended investments was 
right for Mr and Mrs S. There is no issue that they were inexperienced investors  Barclays 
acknowledged this in its FRL. Barclays has also said that customers in Mr and Mrs Ss 
financial situation would ordinarily be considered low-risk investors.
The basis of Barclays argument that the investments were suitable is that Mr and Mrs S told 
the adviser they wanted to pursue a balanced/adventurous attitude to risk.
The fact find shows that Mr and Mrs S wanted to invest for a minimum of five years and 
wanted the potential of better returns than they were getting on deposits. Their main priority 
was identified as:
Simple and straightforward diversified, tax efficient and active and skilled management 
applied to capital growth.Their attitude to investment risk is identified as adventurous. There is reference to them 
having been given a thorough explanation of Barclays Financial Plannings Investment Risk 
and Reward brochure and them being provided with a copy of this.
The fact find then gives examples of the various risks that were discussed, with a brief 
description. 
This included the following: capital  the risk the investment would drop in value; shortfall  
the risk the investments may not perform as hoped; inflation  the risk that the purchasing 
power of the capital invested is eroded.
These examples of different risks are repeated in the suitability report sent to Mr and Mrs S 
after the meeting with the adviser.
The risk brochure sets out different risk categories for investments. For balanced risk it 
states:
As a balanced risk investor you want the spending power of your investments to increase or 
your income to maintain its spending power over time. You are happy to consider putting a 
higher percentage of your money into stock market investments than a cautious investor with 
the aim of getting a better return. You accept that the money you invest will not be 
completely safe and that you could make a loss, especially if you need to withdraw your 
money within five years.
The description of adventurous is as follows:
As an adventurous investor you want to achieve higher total returns by putting a greater 
part of your money in stock market investments. You are aware that by investing in this way 
your money could be subject to far greater fluctuations than those of the balanced investor 
and the potential for loss is greater.
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S, as inexperienced investors with no record of having 
previously invested in equities, wouldve understood the risk of balanced risk or adventurous 
risk investments simply from the descriptions given and I have seen no evidence that the 
adviser provided any information about risk beyond what is set out in the brochure.
The fact find recorded that, considering the various risk factors, Mr S decided he wanted to 
take an adventurous approach with 50% of the funds available in his name with the other 
50% invested in a balanced risk investment in Mrs Ss name and that:
You felt that that the balanced risk part would give you a greater chance of achieving the 
level of investment returns you are looking for on some of the money but as you are seeking 
to achieve a more aggressive level of growth on the other part and you have confidence in 
the UK and global equity markets over a medium to long term period you feel this is the best 
way to achieve the level of capital growth on the total amount being invested whilst keeping 
in line with your acceptable level of tolerance and capacity for risk.
I think it is unlikely that this paragraph  which Barclays has referred to and relied upon 
when rejecting the investigators opinion - is a record of what Mr S or Mrs S actually said or 
thought for a couple of reasons.
Firstly, the fact find states:
 your objective is to obtain a potentially better return than deposit-based accounts but have 
no specific goal in mind.So, Mr and Mrs Ss only objective was to do better than deposit accounts. They didnt have 
any specific level of return they wanted to achieve.
Secondly, as I have already pointed out, there is no evidence they had previously invested in 
equities that wouldve given them an understanding of how markets operated.
So, I think it is very unlikely that they had formed any view about how the UK and global 
equity markets were going to perform over the medium to long term. I can also see no basis 
for the adviser thinking and accepting they had enough knowledge about the markets to form 
such a view. In the circumstances I think it is more likely than not that the reference to 
confidence in the markets was the view of the adviser himself which Mr and Mrs S are likely 
to have simply accepted, given their own lack of knowledge and experience of equity 
markets.
As I think it was the adviser who had confidence in the markets, and having considered all 
the available evidence, I think it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S chose adventurous 
risk and balanced risk investments based on what the adviser thought they should invest in - 
rather than because they actually understood the risks of these investments and were willing 
to take that risk. I think it is more likely than not the investments were very much driven by 
the adviser rather than what was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. I have seen no persuasive 
evidence that they understood the risks of the investments they were recommended, and I 
am not satisfied these were suitable recommendations.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs S as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs S' circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
What should Barclays do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs S fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs S' investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
           Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Barclays 
Multi  surrendered for half the 
investment: date of date 8% simple per 
year on any loss Manager 
Growth 
PortfolioFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsinvestment surrendered from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Barclays 
Manager 
Balanced 
Portfolio surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
 
For each investment:
Actual value            
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs S wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs S' risk profile was in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs S into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr and Mrs S would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs S could have obtained 
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Barclays bank UK PLC must 
calculate, and pay, redress as I have set out above. It should provide details of its calculation 
to Mr and Mrs S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman