DRN-2227329
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy.
All reference to the underwriter, Lloyds in my decision include its agents.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr H reported a leak of water into his cellar to Lloyds which he said had first 
occurred in July 2019. He said a local water supplier had fixed a nearby burst sewage pipe 
which he says caused the leak. While this had reduced the water going into the cellar, he 
said there was water still coming in. 
Lloyds instructed a surveyor to inspect Mr Hs property. They reported that the damage 
wasnt caused by an insured peril, and so Lloyds declined Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H complained to Lloyds. In August 2020 it upheld Mr Hs complaint. It said it could have 
done more to investigate before deciding to decline his claim. For this it paid Mr H £100 
compensation and instructed a structural engineer to inspect the property and to check if the 
area should be sanitised, given the source of the leak.
The structural engineer came to the same conclusion as the first surveyor. They both 
concluded that the damage was due to penetrating/rising damp which had occurred over 
time. The structural engineer was satisfied there wasnt an issue with sanitisation. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the opinion of both the experts who had inspected Mr 
Hs property. As no insured peril had occurred, the investigator thought Lloyds decision to 
reject his claim was fair. 
Mr H didnt agree. In September 2020 he asked the investigator to contact the local water 
supplier as he said they admitted liability. Our investigator said she wouldnt do that. But she 
would consider any information Mr H could obtain from the water supplier to show why he 
didnt agree with her view. Mr H said he would ask the water supplier to contact us and he 
asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
In October 2020 Mr H provided further photos of his cellar, which Ive considered. No further 
information was received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies are designed to cover insured perils such as flood, fire and theft rather 
than every eventuality. And so its very common for insurance policies to exclude cover for 
damage that is caused gradually over time. We can look at whether an insurer properly 
considered a claim, and if it reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Hs policy says:
This policy does not cover: Uninsurable causes
Any loss or damage caused by: A gradually operating cause. This is something that 
happens gradually over a period of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, 
decay or decomposition;
I think given the circumstances of the leak, Lloyds should have done more to investigate Mr 
Hs claim before it decided to decline it. However, I think its compensation of £100 is fair and 
reasonable as it then instructed a structural engineer to check whether the cellar in Mr Hs 
home should be sanitised. 
Ive read the opinions provided by the initial surveyor and the structural engineer. The first 
surveyor reported that the cellar wasnt tanked and that there was evidence of rising 
penetrating damp. He believed the leak from the water supplier may have contributed to 
existing damp in the cellar.
The structural engineer told Lloyds that following his inspection, he agreed with the first 
surveyors view. He said the cellar area had obviously been suffering from penetrating and 
rising damp for some considerable time. He reported long standing damage including 
deterioration of plaster including salting to plaster and brickwork / rotting kitchen carcases 
and gradual deterioration. He concluded that the damage had happened over a number of 
years. He reported that the water was clear and there was no sign of any sanitation issues.
Mr H has provided further photos of the cellar to show the damage which Ive looked at. 
However, this isnt enough to persuade me that Lloyds decision was wrong. Without any 
contradictory evidence of equal weight; for example a surveyors report to say the damage 
was caused by an insured peril under the policy, then I think Lloyds properly considered Mr 
Hs claim. And I think, having reviewed the information it received, its decision to reject Mr 
Hs claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. As Mr Hs policy excludes cover for 
damage caused gradually over time  in this case over a number of years  I dont think 
Lloyds needs to do any more.
I understand Mr H will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not 
upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman