DRN-3599604
The complaint
Mr I got a mortgage offer, with the help of a broker working for John Charcol Limited, and 
paid Charcol a fee of £699. But he then couldnt go ahead with the mortgage. Mr I said the 
broker told him to inflate his income, and he didnt think he should be charged. 
What happened
Mr I said hed told Charcols broker that he had an income of £45,000, and he sent payslips 
to support this. He said he also had an available deposit of £21,000. Mr I said the broker got 
him a mortgage offer, based on this. Then Mr I applied for the help to buy scheme, but his 
application was rejected. 
Mr I said the broker had told him to enter false data for his help to buy application, and 
increase his income. Mr I said hed refused to do that, and he asked for a refund of the fee 
he paid the broker, within 24 hours of payment. Mr I said the broker had breached his right to 
withdraw from the agreement within 24 hours, and the broker had breached professional 
obligations by asking Mr I to falsify his income declaration. 
Charcol said Mr I had asked it to help him get a mortgage offer. Its broker did that. Mr I got 
his offer on 6 January. Charcol then charged the fee that Mr I was told about at the start. But 
Mr I got in touch some days later, on 14 January, to say his employed income had changed 
and he couldnt afford the mortgage any more. He asked for his fees to be refunded. Charcol 
said that fee was non-refundable, and it had told Mr I this too, at the start. But it said that if 
Mr I wanted to do a new application in the future, then it wouldnt charge him for that.
Charcol said there was no evidence that its broker had suggested Mr I should increase his 
income. It said its broker had only ever told Mr I that the overtime figure on the help to buy 
application didnt match the one Mr I had given for his mortgage application. 
Charcol said Mr I had been happy with the service provided, until his work situation changed, 
and he wasnt able to go ahead, but couldnt get a refund on what hed already paid.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Charcol had set out 
clearly for Mr I when the fee would be charged, and that the fee wasnt refundable. And 
Charcol had charged in line with that. Mr I then got back in touch with Charcol, and said he 
didnt want to go ahead because his working conditions were changing, and he couldnt 
afford to pay a debt for so long. Our investigator said Mr I had acknowledged then that the 
fee he had paid was not refundable, but he hoped to get something back. Charcol said it 
wouldnt pay this back, but it would waive the fee if Mr I wanted to apply again in the future. 
Our investigator also thought there was no evidence that the broker had suggested to Mr I 
that he should inflate his income when completing his help to buy application, by adding a 
£6,000 annual bonus. He said the broker had only given Mr I the figure of £1,670 in 
overtime. And that matched the information on Mr Is mortgage application and factfind  
which said he had an annual salary of £49,500 and annual overtime income of £19,732. So 
our investigator didnt think Charcol had done anything wrong. It had charged a fee for Mr Is 
mortgage offer, and there was no evidence the broker then suggested Mr I inflate his income 
for his help to buy application. 
Mr I didnt agree. He said that he didnt think the broker had actually done the job he had 
charged for, because he thought the bank wouldnt ever have given him the mortgage it had 
offered. Mr I said he couldnt prove the income that the broker had used for the mortgage 
application, it was more than he earned. 
Mr I wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr I needed to complete both a mortgage application, and a help to buy application, in order 
to buy the property he was interested in. Unusually, Mr I didnt do the help to buy application 
first. And when that failed, he wasnt able to go ahead with his purchase. 
The government carries out its own affordability assessment for the help to buy scheme. Mr I 
was unsuccessful there. I dont think that was Charcols fault, and I dont think it has to pay 
Mr I back the fee he was charged for his mortgage offer, just because of this. 
Mr Is evidence shows that his broker prompted him with a figure to enter for overtime, on his 
help to buy application. But that figure is the same as the one shown on Mr Is factfind and 
mortgage application. So Charcols view was that its broker was only reminding Mr I about 
income that hed previously evidenced. 
But Mr I has now told our service that he doesnt think Charcol did its job. He accepts the 
figures on his help to buy application were the same as the ones on his mortgage 
application. But he says he couldnt prove the income that had been input as part of his 
mortgage application. He never earned that much, and he says Charcols broker told him to 
inflate his income. 
I asked Mr I for the payslips he sent to Charcol. He sent us payslips for May, June and July 
2021. The information on those payslips wasnt consistent with Mr Is mortgage application. 
But Mr Is application began in November 2021, so it wasnt clear why he would have sent 
older payslips to Charcol. I think its likely that Charcol, and Mr Is mortgage lender, would 
want to see more up to date payslips.
I also asked Charcol for the payslips it had received from Mr I, and it has now sent us 
payslips too. These arent the same ones as Mr I sent. They are dated September, October 
and November 2021, which is just before Mr Is mortgage application. They show Mr I had a 
pay rise of about 10%, which took effect from October 2021. He also did a considerable 
amount of overtime in these three months. So I do think the information contained in Mr Is 
factfind and mortgage application are consistent with the more recent payslips that were sent 
to Charcol. 
The documents Ive now seen makes me think that Charcol used evidence Mr I had 
supplied, and properly declared Mr Is income, when it processed his mortgage application. 
And I also think Charcols broker then reminded Mr I of the amount of overtime hed previously evidenced, when he was completing his help to buy application. I can see a 
bonus amount on that help to buy application too, but I havent seen anything to make me 
think that this amount was suggested by Charcols broker.
I have seen the paperwork Charcol initially sent to Mr I, explaining how much it would 
charge, when this fee would be payable, and what it would provide for its brokerage fee. I 
think Charcol did what it said it would do. And I dont think that Mr I then had a right of 
withdrawal from this agreement, after he got his mortgage offer. 
For those reasons, I dont think that that Charcol has to pay Mr I back the fee he was 
charged for its brokerage service, of £699.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman