DRN-3427344
The complaint
Mrs A complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) failed to 
action her instruction to transfer her pension savings to another provider in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mrs A held pension savings with Prudential. On 12 March 2020 Prudential received a 
transfer request for Mrs As pension savings from another provider via the Origo automated 
platform. Prudential added the transfer instruction to its systems on the same date and it set 
a target completion date of 26 March.
In order to transfer Mrs As pension savings Prudential needed to sell Mrs As investments. 
That sale didnt take place until 24 March and two explanations have been provided for the 
delay. Prudential has said that Mrs As regular pension contribution was collected by direct 
debit the day the transfer request was first received. So it would normally allow a period of 
around five days for that payment to be processed before starting the transfer activity. And it 
points out that it operates to a 10-working day SLA for transfers of this nature.
On 17 March, a unit price adjustment (UPA) was applied to Mrs As pension investments. 
So Mrs A says the value of her pension savings was reduced by approximately £28,000. 
She complained to Prudential that it had failed to make her aware that the collection of her 
regular contribution might delay the transfer of her pension savings. And she said that, but 
for that delay, her pension savings would have been transferred before the UPA was 
applied.
When it looked into Mrs As complaint Prudential accepted that she might have been given 
some incorrect information by her Regional Account Manager. Mrs A said she had been told 
that her pension savings could be transferred within two days. But Prudential said that 
information was incorrect, so although it apologised for the error, it didnt think the time it had 
taken to transfer the pension savings had been unreasonable. Mrs A didnt accept that 
explanation so brought her complaint to this Service.
Her complaint has been assessed by two of our investigators. They thought that Prudential 
had completed the transfer request within a reasonable period of time. And they hadnt seen 
any evidence to suggest that Mrs A had asked for her regular contribution to not be 
collected, or that the transfer would have completed before the UPA had it not been 
collected. So they didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs A and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I dont think the basic facts behind this complaint are in dispute. Prudential received a valid 
instruction for the transfer of Mrs As pension savings on 12 March 2020. The value of her 
pension savings was reduced on 17 March when the UPA was applied. And the transfer 
request was completed when the funds were sent to the new provider on 25 March.
I think the starting point for my consideration of the complaint should be the terms and 
conditions that applied to Mrs As pension plan. I think the relevant sections here are 
sections 15.4 and 15.10 that generally relate to the buying and selling of investments. They 
read;
15.4 If we receive the instruction by 12 noon on a working day, it will be processed 
on the same working day or as soon as reasonably practicable if this is not 
possible. If we receive the instruction after 12 noon on a working day or on a 
non-working day, it will be processed the next working day.
15.10 Where you are looking to make a transfer out or a payment of benefits, the 
timescales in 15.4 will not apply. However, we will facilitate the transfer out or 
payment as soon as reasonably practicable after we have received all of the 
documentation we require.
Prudential has said that it operates to a ten-day SLA for making transfers to another 
provider. It says those timescales have been approved by its regulator the FCA. But the 
ten-day SLA doesnt seem to me to be referenced in the relevant terms and conditions. 
Those simply require Prudential to make the transfer as soon as reasonably practicable. 
And so it is on that basis that I think I should consider this complaint.
But of course there is no fixed definition of what might be considered as soon as reasonably 
practicable. The individual circumstances of a transfer might make a difference to those 
timings from case to case. And factors including other processing activity, such as the 
receipt of a regular contribution, or the sale of investments, might mean one transfer takes 
longer than another. But, in general, I dont think I would consider a period of ten days to be 
unreasonable for completing a transfer such as this.
It doesnt seem to me that Mrs As complaint stems from the elapsed time that the transfer 
took. I think it unlikely that, had there been no external market activities that affected the 
value of her pension savings, she would have been unhappy with the transfer process. But 
the UPA that was applied brought the timing of the transfer into sharp focus.
March 2020 saw an unprecedented level of market volatility resulting from the start of the 
coronavirus pandemic. As a result the investment that Mrs A held for her pension savings 
applied a UPA on 17 March. That UPA was applied to ensure that the interests of all 
policyholders were protected at a time when a large volume of money was leaving the fund. It ensured that those withdrawals fairly reflected the underlying assets that comprised the 
fund investments.
By its nature a UPA is not publicised in advance  to do so would compromise the very 
rationale of its implementation. So it wasnt something that Mrs A could have taken into 
account when giving her transfer instruction, or Prudential considered when acting upon it. It 
was simply unfortunate timing that the UPA was applied before Mrs As transfer had been 
completed.
I have considered the incorrect information that Mrs A says she was given by her Prudential 
account manager. Although those calls arent routinely recorded, like Prudential, I have no 
reason to doubt Mrs As recollections of those discussions. And I can understand why she 
was so disappointed that the information turned out to be incorrect.
But I havent seen anything to make me think that Mrs A relied on that information to ensure 
that her pension savings were transferred by a certain date. So, even if she had been given 
correct information, I cannot conclude that she might have instructed the transfer earlier, and 
so avoided the UPA being applied. As I noted above, UPAs are not announced in advance, 
so Mrs A wouldnt have known about it when she was considering giving her transfer 
instruction.
It does seem possible that the collection of the regular contribution might have led Prudential 
to delay the start of its processing of Mrs As transfer request. But I dont think that would 
automatically lead to a conclusion that the processing would have started earlier had there 
been no regular contribution due. As I said at the outset, when Prudential received Mrs As 
transfer request it added a target completion date of ten days later. I think it most likely that 
the start of Prudentials processing of the transfer request would have been timed to ensure 
completion by the target date. And so processing would have started after the UPA was 
applied regardless.
I have no doubt how disappointing the reduction in the value of the pension savings would 
have been for Mrs A. I can see that Prudential contacted her financial advisor before 
completing the sale of the pension investments to ensure Mrs A wanted to continue at the 
reduced value. But I dont think that the reduction in the value of the pension savings was as 
a result of any unreasonable delays that took place during Prudentials processing of Mrs As 
instruction. So I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong that has caused Mrs A to 
lose out.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman