DRN-4330688
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined their 
claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a travel insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. 
In April 2022, Mrs D needed medical attention whilst on a cruise due to swelling in her legs. 
She made a claim to UKI which it declined because it said the doctors report included a 
diagnosis of her pre-existing medical conditions which werent covered under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs D complained and unhappy with UKIs response, referred their complaint to this 
Service. They also provided a medical report from a later cruise in 2022 which showed that 
Mrs D suffered from swelling again and that was unrelated to her pre-existing conditions. 
They said this showed that the diagnosis from the first doctor was incorrect. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think UKI had fairly declined the claim 
and recommended that UKI pay the claim plus interest. 
UKI disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
The doctors report clearly identifies a diagnosis of a pre-existing condition.
The second cruise and report differed in relation to the diagnosis and that claim was 
paid and accepted.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 August 2023 in which I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly 
and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy doesnt cover Mrs Ds pre-existing conditions. 
Ive reviewed both doctors reports dated April 2022 and August 2022. The claim from April 
2022 was declined on the basis that the doctor had listed pre-existing conditions as the 
diagnosis. 
Our investigator said there was no causal link between Mrs Ds pre-existing conditions and 
her swelling and so she didnt think it was fair for UKI to decline the claim on this basis. She 
also said the report from August 2022 was persuasive and it was likely that the cause of her 
swelling was the same as it was in April. 
Having carefully considered both reports, I dont think its fair to say the cause of the swelling 
was likely to be the same. That is because the report from April 2022 is detailed and lists all 
of Mrs Ds pre-existing conditions but also gives a diagnosis of diabetes and high blood 
pressure with the complaint of swelling. Each diagnosis is given a category of either final, 
different or additional. Its the final conditions which Mrs D was treated for and so I am 
satisfied the list isnt simply a list of all her conditions  it lists the ones which have been 
treated. 
The report records Mrs Ds raised blood pressure readings and lists the medication 
prescribed which included medication to treat her pre-existing conditions. So even though 
the cause of the swelling wasnt specifically attributed to her pre-existing conditions, Mrs D 
was treated for her pre-existing conditions as a result of her high blood pressure. This isnt 
covered under the terms of the policy. So I think its fair for UKI to rely on the diagnosis given 
by the doctor. 
The report from August 2022 doesnt record high blood pressure readings or conditions in 
the same way the report from April did, and the treatment was different. So Im not 
persuaded the cause of the swelling was the same as it was in April based on this 
information. 
There is no further persuasive medical evidence available which suggests that the diagnosis 
made by the doctor in April was wrong, so I think it was fair for UKI to rely on that report and 
decline the claim. For that reason, I dont think UKI needs to do anything further.
Mr D responded in detail, and I have summarised his comments:
There was no treatment for swelling on the second cruise and so there can be no 
diagnosis to differ from the April report. There are inaccuracies and contradictions in 
the decision relating to the diagnosis. Specifically, the second claim was solely for 
minor care and an injury  no treatment for swelling was necessary.
UKI says diabetes and high blood pressure were the cause of swelling but Mrs Ds 
GP has told her it is ridiculous to suggest that it could be diabetes. The treating 
doctor didnt tell Mrs D that the cause of swelling was high blood pressure and the 
main treatment was given specifically to treat the swelling. They question the 
reliability of the medical report generally.
Although UKI agreed to leave their file open, the file was closed immediately. Mr Ds 
letter of 31 August 2022 was ignored and UKI only responded when chased in 
November 2022. UKI failed to properly assess the claim, give appropriate 
consideration to the persuasive evidence regarding the effect of high salt content in 
the food and has ignored the possibility that the diagnosis by the doctor could be 
wrong and misleading. 
I have considered everything Mr and Mrs D have said but will only focus on what I consider 
to be key to my decision.
In relation to the second cruise and report, this details a complaint of swollen feet and 
that Mrs D was seen for an injury to her toe but this was unrelated to her swollen 
feet. I havent seen any persuasive medical evidence from Mrs Ds GP explaining why the 
report from the doctor in April was unreliable, so I see no reason to discount the 
conclusions within it. 
UKI apologised for not replying to Mr and Mrs D promptly and paid £100 
compensation. Overall, I am satisfied that UKI has assessed the claim based on the 
medical evidence provided, which I think is reasonable. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything further. 
I havent been presented with any new medical evidence to suggest that the medical report 
from April 2022 relied on by UKI was incorrect and so I adopt my provisional decision as my 
final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman