DRN-1563768
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy most likely 
taken out in 1996. Mrs C says Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs C took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1996. Its not possible to be sure when she 
bought the PPI but it seems most likely she was sold it at the same time as she took the 
card. The PPI wouldve helped cover her repayments if she couldnt work.
Mrs C say she didnt know the PPI had been added and she didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Mrs C would 
have filled out an application form to apply for the credit card and PPI. Ive seen a 
sample copy of the form which was in use at the time. There was a separate section 
for the PPI which made it clear it was optional. I think its likely Mrs C ticked a box to 
say she wanted it. And the PPI appeared each month on her statement, so if she 
hadnt chosen it I think shed have queried it when she saw the charge;
Lloyds say it would have recommended the PPI to Mrs C, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs C only 
had statutory sick pay and would have been entitled to only a small amount of 
redundancy pay. She didnt have any savings. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition 
to any sick pay or redundancy pay, and for up to 12 months at a time; 
Mrs C has told this service that she had cover through work and extra insurance, but 
she didnt tell us this when she first brought her complaint. And I havent seen any 
evidence of this, so I cant take it into account here; 
Mrs C says her partner might have been able to help her out if she wasnt able to 
work, but this help couldnt be guaranteed, so I cant take it into account;Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
So I don't think Mrs C lost out as a result of anything Lloyds might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman