DRN-3043420
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Pi Financial Limited (trading as Money Foundations) gave her 
unsuitable advice to transfer her existing pensions into a SIPP (Self Invested Personal 
Pension). She says the advice was given to facilitate investment into a high-risk investment - 
the Optima Worldwide Group (OWG) bond. 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
The Legal Partnership (LP) - unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd, trading as Money Foundations (Pi) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand)  regulated discretionary investment manager  in liquidation
James Hay (JH) - SIPP provider
Ms C says she came into contact with LP after arranging a will with them. She says she 
agreed to meet a representative to review her pensions. LP told her they could be getting 
her pensions to work harder and new options in the market meant a review would be a 
good idea. She says LP told her about a bond with guaranteed returns. Ms C says she 
never met anyone other than the LP representative who also filled in all the forms. Pi says 
LP introduced Ms C to them and that their adviser spoke to Ms Cs husband to clarify 
information on the Fact Find completed by LP.
Pi received a letter from Ms C on 3 December 2013. This said:
I would like to transfer my existing Pension Plans with Aegon & Aviva into a new Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) Plan. Can you arrange for my current fundsto be 
transferred into a SIPP with a relevant SIPP provider. I do not wish for you to choose the 
Investment Funds but set up the SIPP Investment only, as I wish to choose my own 
investment choice which may involve direct investment in Shares.
The adviser replied by letter dated 5 December 2013 which said:
Thank you for your letter of 03rd October 2013 to transfer your Pension Plans from  into a 
new Self Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). I am happy to complete your instructions on the 
transfer. I will not have any input on which funds that your new SIPP will be invested in, but 
will only have responsibility for selecting an appropriate SIPP provider and setting up the 
transfer of your funds into the new SIPP.
Various documents were completed and signed through December 2013. This included 
Client Agreement
a fact find which confirmed Ms Cs circumstances at the time
Pension Replacement Contract Forms
Pension Transfer Analysis
Knowledge and experience assessment
SIPP application form
Application for an execution-only stockbroking account with Strand 
A recommendation letter was issued on 9 December 2013. It recommended Ms C transfer 
her pensions into a SIPP with JH.
Later in December 2013, JH wrote to Pi confirming that Strand had established a trading 
account on behalf of Ms C, and asked Pi for a written instruction of the amount to be 
transferred to Strand. The application form confirmed that the account was execution-only.
In January 2014, Ms Cs pensions (worth around £43,000) were transferred to JH, who then 
confirmed to Pi that £40,000 had subsequently been transferred to Strand. 
Representatives for Ms C raised a complaint to Pi in 2017 regarding the unsuitable advice it 
said had been provided to her. Pi Financial didnt uphold the complaint and it was 
subsequently referred to us. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. He didnt think the advice given to Ms C had been suitable. 
Pi disagreed that they should be held responsible for Ms Cs losses. In 2019, they also told 
this service that they understood distributions from the OWG fund would be made to 
customers which would impact on the loss amounts and so no further action should be taken 
on Ms Cs complaint until the level of distribution had been confirmed. In January 2020, they 
said they expected the distributions to happen shortly. 
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. However, Ill focus in this 
decision on what I consider to be the key material issues in deciding the fair outcome of this 
complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:
Ms C instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided 
Ms C with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited 
nature of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable in full compliance with COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. Any 
liability could only be in regard to whether a SIPP was appropriate for Ms C.
Pi didnt provide Ms C with advice on the switch from her existing pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the investment in OWG. Ms C had already decided what she wanted to 
do before she approached Pi. And the investment forms likely would have made it 
clear the intended investments were high risk. They doubt additional information by 
Pi would have changed Ms Cs course of action. 
Ms C had told Pi she would be using a separate investment manager (Strand). Pi 
established that manager was an authorised and regulated firm and appropriately 
qualified. Pi also said they undertook due diligence on the OWG bond.The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of Strand, who was also 
a regulated party. Strand is responsible for Ms Cs losses and not Pi who only played 
a very limited role here. 
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Ms C investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Ms C would have relied on the advice or whether she would have acted the 
same way she did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Ms C did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Ms C with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Ms C. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:
The research report which was issued on 5 December 2013 and prepared by Pis 
adviser and which - after comparing several SIPPs and providers - recommended the 
JH SIPP for Ms C. 
The recommendation letter dated 9 December 2013 which said amongst other 
things:
My advice is based on the details you provided.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP. 
I have acted accordingly.
Under Objectives it said You wished me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which you 
can transfer your current pension policies. 
Pi went onto make a specific recommendation After doing my research on the most 
appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs I have recommended a JH Partnership 
SIPP.
A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your consideration which 
outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the chosen provider. [my 
emphasis]
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Ms C. Im satisfied that recommending a suitable 
SIPP provider can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Ms C when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in 
COBS 9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Ms Cs instructions. Ms 
C had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and she told them she 
didnt require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch from Ms 
Cs personal pensions to the SIPP or where the SIPP would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Ms Cs objectives and that she was able to bear any related investment risks. Ms Cs recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was because the 
existing investments were no longer suitable.
I consider the risks of Ms C transferring her existing pensions and the risks of her intended 
investment through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Ms C wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Ms C was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Ms Cs wider circumstances including how her 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi says the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser 
was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. Pi says Strand 
was a regulated firm managing Ms Cs investments and it was their responsibility to invest in 
line with her attitude to risk. However, Ms C opened an execution-only account with Strand 
and I cant see that they gave her advice or provided a discretionary service. 
In any event, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Ms Cs 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a 
personal pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Ms C to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Ms C were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi to consider the 
wider suitability of Ms Cs intended transactions when recommending a SIPP - whether she 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Ms C.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Ms Cs case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenhalgh, but it doesnt change my findings either. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Ms C on the suitability of the JH SIPP, Pi had to 
consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the pension switch and 
where Ms C intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Ms C with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Ms C was 53, married and was earning £60,000 a year. She had limited savings and 
investments. She didnt have any significant investment experience. As well as her personal 
pensions she was looking to transfer, she also had been a member of a final salary pension 
scheme since 2001.
Pi said when they spoke to Ms Cs husband (who was advised at the same time) he 
confirmed that he would be investing in OWG. Pi also said they did due diligence on the 
OWG investment. So Im satisfied Pi also would have known about Ms Cs intended 
investment.
The OWG bond was invested in loan notes which are considered relatively high-risk and are 
not regulated. The bond prospectus (which Pi has provided to us) confirms this:
The Convertible Redeemable Loan Note is an unregulated investment and the protections 
normally afforded by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 do not apply. Investors 
will not be entitled to compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I think its evident from the documents Ms C completed that she didnt have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks of this non-standard investment which 
included illiquidity risks, lack of diversification and potential loss of her retirement funds. 
The suitability report suggests Ms C felt a risk profile wasnt required. However, it didnt 
matter what Ms C might have considered necessary or not in this regard. Pi was required to 
meet their regulatory obligations and COBS 9 required Pi to obtain this information about Ms 
C before making their recommendation. They failed to do this.
I havent seen evidence that she had an attitude to risk exceeding medium at the most and 
given her circumstances I dont think she had the capacity to take any significant risk with 
her pension. In the Pension Transfer Analysis she also ranked The security of my pension 
fund as her second highest priority behind to increase my pension.
Ms C has stated that she had no real issues with her existing investment funds and just 
wanted to tidy up her pensions plans, but she was told shed get better returns by 
transferring. The Knowledge & Experience questionnaire is consistent with this. It stated that 
Ms Cs investment experience was limited to her existing pensions only. She described 
herself as I have a reasonable knowledge of investments, having previously purchased 
investment / pension contracts. The personal pensions were invested in With-Profits and a 
managed fund.
 
Given Ms Cs lack of investment experience, Im also not persuaded she was a credible self-
investor. I cant see any persuasive reasons why Ms C needed to change her pensions at 
all, given that they were invested in fairly low cost With-Profits and balanced managed funds. Based on the information I have, Im satisfied the transfer to the SIPP and investment into 
OWG was unsuitable for Ms C. And Pi knew - or ought to have known - that the intended 
investment into OWG was too high risk and unsuitable for an inexperienced investor in Ms 
Cs circumstances. Despite this, they recommended a SIPP and arranged the paperwork to 
facilitate this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Ms C. They should have 
explained that her intended investments were too high risk.
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
and helped her arrange the paperwork for investments which were clearly not suitable for 
her. They didnt pay due regard to Ms Cs interests and did not take reasonable steps to 
ensure that their personal recommendation was suitable for Ms C as per their regulatory 
obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Ms C were fair 
or reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Ms C have transferred her pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Ms C would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what Pi 
told her. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if I assume 
that Ms C was given this brochure-which is something I dont know-she might have been 
informed that this was unregulated and high risk. I also considered that LP might have 
influenced Ms C in the background and could have persuaded her to proceed.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm 
recommending her not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any 
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk. Ms 
C had no real investment experience so Im not convinced she would have been able to 
properly understand the risks she was taking with her entire pension here. 
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Ms Cs overall 
financial position. Despite her final salary pension she didnt have the capacity to bear 
significant losses to her pension, which was a real possibility with the investment in the 
OWG bond. So I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, 
had clearly explained they couldnt recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were 
not suitable for her circumstances, the transaction wasnt in her best interest and she 
couldnt afford to risk her pension in this way, I think she would have decided not to proceed.
If LP had tried to persuade her to transfer anyway, Ms C would have faced a choice between 
taking the advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im not persuaded the 
evidence suggests Ms C was so strongly motivated to make the transaction that she would 
have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert advice. 
Given that Pi should have been aware that there was a risk Ms C was being influenced by 
LP and potentially not given full and clear information about what she was about to do, they 
should have established what she had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Ms C would have more likely than
not followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended
against the SIPP and investment with OWG as it was unsuitable for her. I think, on balance, 
Ms C would have remained in her existing pension arrangements.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on Strand 
providing a suitable recommendation for Ms C. I disagree because the account Ms C had 
with Strand was execution-only. So they werent intending to give Ms C any advice. Pi have 
also mentioned the involvement of Horizon who was a regulated firm, but I cant see they 
were involved here.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Ms C unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Ms C more 
likely than not would have remained in her existing pensions. Having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Ms C for any losses she 
suffered by transferring into the SIPP and investing into OWG.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Ms Cs knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investment was evidently unsuitable for Ms C.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the 
decision, I think Ms C would have likely remained in her existing pensions but for Pis 
failings. So Ms C wouldnt have been in the SIPP or OWG bond investment at all if Pi had 
met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently she wouldnt have suffered the 
investment losses she did. I therefore consider the losses Ms C suffered from the high-risk 
investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Ms Cs losses my aim is to put her as close as possible to 
the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice by Pi.
In my view, for the reasons given above, Ms C would more likely than not have stayed in her 
existing arrangements if Pi had followed their regulatory duties and not recommended the 
SIPP.
Im intending to ask Pi to request notional values from Ms Cs previous pension providers. Pi 
should calculate compensation by comparing the value that Ms Cs pensions would have 
been at the date of my final decision (Value A) with the value of her SIPP (Value B) on the 
same date.
If Value A is higher than B, then the difference between A and B is the loss. 
Ms C has received a compensation payment of £631.19 into her SIPP from the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) after the liquidation of Strand. This was to account 
for a remaining cash amount which was held by them.  This payment will be included in 
Value B, so no further adjustment is needed to account for this. 
When calculating Value A, any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the 
calculations from the point in time when they were paid in.Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
they are totalled and all those payments deducted at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the Value A 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
I understand Ms Cs OWG investment is illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the open 
market. This means it can be complicated to establish Value B. So, Value B should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Pi is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculation. Pi Financial may require that Ms C provides an undertaking to 
pay Pi any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Pi taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Ms C can discuss with JH directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Pi pay Ms C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five 
years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Ms Cs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms C as a lump sum. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms Cs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if she is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Ms C would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Ms C £350 for the distress Ms C suffered when she 
realised she had lost significant parts of her pension. 
Pi Financial Ltd should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the compensation 
calculated as at the date of decision if its not paid to Ms C within 28 days of us notifying Pi 
Financial Ltd that Ms C has accepted my final decision. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial considers its required byHM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Ms C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Ms C in a clear and simple format.
.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman