DRN-2978946
The complaint
Mr A and Miss B complain that they were given incorrect information by Nationwide Building 
Society about the interest rates that were available to them which meant they missed out on 
a more favourable interest rate with another lender.
What happened
Mr A had a mortgage with Nationwide which had a fixed rate with an ERC payable if the 
mortgage was redeemed before April 2021. The mortgage could be ported subject to the 
application meeting Nationwides lending criteria at the time of application. Mr A and Miss B 
were considering a substantially increased loan to buy another property and contacted a 
broker. The broker said they could get a rate of 1.89% pa from another lender that I will call 
Lender A. They checked back with Nationwide a number of times and were given incorrect 
information that the Society could offer a five-year fixed rate also at 1.89% pa. This was on 
12 and 14 October 2020. Mr A and Miss B proceeded with their application to Nationwide 
and not Lender A and then were told on 23 October 2020 that as this was a Help to Buy 
purchase, different rates applied - 2.19% with a product fee. Mr A and Miss B decided to 
continue with the application to Nationwide, but the Society eventually decided not to offer 
the loan following a valuation and the application was cancelled on 18 November 2020. Mr A 
and Miss B then applied to a different lender and obtained a loan but had to pay an ERC 
when Mr A redeemed the mortgage with Nationwide.
Nationwide offered £300 compensation, but Mr A was unable to provide any evidence from  
Lender A such as a Key Facts Illustration or a Decision in Principle confirming the rate of the 
product, the Loan to Value and other details regarding the mortgage product that Mr A and 
Miss B missed out on. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. He felt that for compensation to be considered there should be documentary proof of 
what interest rate Lender A was offering. In addition, he said that as Mr A and Miss B 
decided to go with Nationwide despite Lender As lower interest rate, the incorrect 
information didnt affect their choice of lender. When Nationwide refused their application 
and Mr A and Miss B got a mortgage elsewhere, they would always have to pay an ERC 
under the terms that they had agreed with Nationwide. He felt that the compensation offered 
by Nationwide was reasonable. Mr A and Miss B disagreed saying in summary that the 
compensation offered was inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Miss B had a series of disappointments when trying to get a new mortgage with 
Nationwide. Firstly, they were given the wrong information about the interest rates available 
to them on a number of occasions. Secondly, they were refused a mortgage when they 
applied to Nationwide and then had to pay an ERC when they got a mortgage for their new 
home with a new lender.
There is no doubt that they were given the wrong information when they first enquired from 
Nationwide about the available rates and its agreed that they should be compensated for 
their distress and inconvenience. It would have been disappointing to have been told that 
they a better rate was available than in fact was the case and I consider that the offer of 
£300 to be fair compensation for that. 
The other issue is whether this incorrect information prevented Mr A and Miss B staying with 
Lender A and getting a better bargain with Lender A. There are two problems in upholding 
that position. There is no evidence before me that Mr A and Miss B were likely to get a 
mortgage at the interest rate quoted. When they didnt get a mortgage from Nationwide, they 
went to another lender not Lender A. I dont have any documentary evidence of what that the 
original interest rate was or anything n writing from Lender A to say they were likely to get a 
mortgage from Lender A and the rate of interest that would be applied  Im aware of the 
difficulties that Mr A and Miss B might face in providing that evidence. But as Mr A and Miss 
B know from their Nationwide application, being told what the possible interest rate would be 
is not evidence that they would have got a mortgage based at that rate and in the case of 
Lender A I dont even have a document setting out what that rate was.   
But in any case, there is a further difficulty highlighted by our investigator. When Mr A and 
Miss B realised that Nationwides rates were higher than the quote form Lender A, they 
proceeded with Nationwide in any case, in the hope that they could avoid the ERC. That 
would indicate that Nationwides error about their interest rates wasnt the reason that Mr A 
and Miss B proceeded with Nationwide and didnt go with Lender A. For the above reasons I 
dont believe that Nationwides errors were responsible for causing Mr A and Miss B financial 
loss and I cant fairly award further compensation on that basis.
Mr A and Miss B then applied for a mortgage through Nationwide but following a valuation 
Nationwide could not offer the mortgage requested. I cant say that was unfair. Mr A and 
Miss B then went to another lender and redeemed the mortgage with Nationwide. Under the 
terms agreed with Nationwide Mr A would have to pay an ERC if he redeemed his mortgage 
and again, I dont consider that unfair. So, for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman