DRN-1906057
The complaint
Miss S complains about how London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) has dealt with 
her loan.
 What happened
Miss S says she took out a loan with LCCU in 2015 for 33 months. She says the final 
payment ought to have been in April 2018. Miss S says she is still making repayments and 
received a refund of about £480. She says the wrong interest rate has been used and would 
like an explanation for what took place as well as compensation.
LCCU hasnt replied to the complaint or provided us with information about this complaint.
Miss S had brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator 
thought it impossible to say what had gone wrong with the loan but could see there was a 
refund of nearly £600 which suggested a mistake. The investigator recommended LCCU pay 
£150 compensation for what took place and confirm to Miss S the exact status of the loan as 
well as amend the loan if an incorrect interest rate was used.
Miss S says the compensation offer doesnt go far enough.
LCCU has not responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. I make clear that it would have been helpful for LCCU to have provided us with its 
loan records and an explanation for the loan interest refund.
I cant be sure what exactly took place here without LCCUs records but can see that there 
was a loan interest refund of just under £600. I agree with the investigators view that the 
refund suggests something went wrong. I appreciate in those circumstances Miss Ss 
concerns and I understand why she would like to know exactly how much she owes LCCU. 
And how long remains on the loan. I also accept Miss S would have been caused distress 
and inconvenience in trying to find out what took place and why the loan appears to be still in 
place.
For those reasons I think LCCU should pay Miss S £150 compensation which I think reflects 
the level of distress and inconvenience Miss S was caused. I find that award would be fair 
and reasonable.
I also think LCCU should explain to Miss S what took place and why it made the refund. It 
should also re-calculate the loan as its clear Miss S is unsure about what took place and 
why the loan is still be repaid. 
Putting things right
LCCU should pay Miss S £150 compensation. It should also confirm the loan final 
repayment and explain to Miss S what took place and re-calculate the loan to make sure the 
correct interest rate was used.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order London Community Credit Union 
Limited to pay Miss S £150 compensation. I also order it to provide Miss S with an up to date 
loan repayment schedule, which includes the final payment, that has been checked and if 
necessary, it should amend the loan if an incorrect interest rate was used.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman