DRN-3862136
The complaint
L complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a theft claim it made on its mini 
fleet insurance policy. 
What happened
One of Ls fleet vehicles was involved in an accident approximately four years ago. The 
driver of the vehicle at the time was covered under their own personal cover which included 
driving other vehicles, and all third-party damage was covered by a separate insurer.
Following the accident, the vehicle was never returned to L. So, in February 2022, L 
contacted Aviva to initiate a theft claim. Aviva investigated the claim and declined it. It did so 
because it said L hadnt followed the claims procedure set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. Aviva said it had been unable to verify the circumstances of the claim, so its 
position had been prejudiced. 
L brought its complaint to our service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and said that 
Aviva hadnt done anything wrong by declining the claim.
As L doesnt agree, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to decide if Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably by declining this claim. 
So, lets look at what happened. All claims arising from the accident were dealt with by a 
contractual insurer because the driver had a driving other cars extension on their own 
insurance policy. This contractual policy belonging to the driver provided indemnity for the 
third-party claims only. There was no mention of damage to Ls car at the time.
A report from the Police states that the driver at the time had permission to drive this car. As 
such, Aviva closed its file because the claims arising from the accident were being dealt with 
by another insurer. Cover was on a third party only basis, so there was nothing further for 
Aviva to do. My understanding is that Ls vehicle was recovered by a recovery agent, and 
subsequently released from the recovery agent to an accident repair specialist 
approximately two years later when all storage and fees had been paid. 
L never received the vehicle back after the accident, even though L continued to pay for the 
vehicle on a monthly basis. So, in 2022 L submitted a theft claim to Aviva. 
Aviva declined Ls claim. It said that the car hadnt been stolen at the time of the accident 
because the driver had permission to drive the car. However, L said that since then the car 
had not been returned and as such, it was in effect, stolen.
Avivas policy terms and conditions state that any claim should be reported As soon as 
reasonably possible after any accident, loss or damage, you or your legal personal 
representatives must telephone us giving full details of the incident. Any communication you 
receive about that incident should be sent to us immediately. You or your legal personal 
representatives must let us know immediately if anyone insured under this policy is to be 
prosecuted as a result of the incident or if there is to be an inquest or a fatal accident 
inquiry. 
Despite what the term says Aviva did open a claim in 2022 and it made an attempt to find 
the vehicle. But it was unsuccessful. Aviva says the keys were handed over willingly to the 
driver of the vehicle by a person named on the policy before the accident. It also says that 
the evidence would suggest that L was aware of accident, and a theft wasnt reported at the 
time. So, its difficult to deal with this as a theft.
I agree with this point from Aviva. I know that L now says it was coerced into saying the 
driver had permission at the time. But the vehicle was in the care of someone who was on 
the policy at the time, and its not in question that that person loaned the vehicle to someone 
they knew. So, I agree, this isnt a theft. 
However, I think L makes a valid point about what happened to the vehicle once recovered. 
After the accident the car was recovered and then passed on to a repair agent. This 
happened in 2020, some two years after the accident. But now the vehicle cannot be traced. 
So, I think it could be considered that 2020 is when an alleged theft may have happened as 
this is the point that the trail of the car seems to go cold.
But even if we take the date of alleged theft as 2020, it still took L a further 16 months to 
submit a claim to Aviva and even longer to report the alleged theft to the police. L continued 
to make the payments on the car and theres no evidence L went looking for the car, nor is 
there any evidence that L reported the theft to the Police until after February 2022. I note 
that the Police have deemed this a civil matter and its dealt with a complaint L made about 
its handling of the matter. But the conclusion from the complaint is that the service provided 
by the Police was acceptable in the circumstances, and having read the file in full, I find it 
hard to disagree with that
L says there are valid and extenuating reasons why it never reported the theft, looked for the 
car or stopped paying for it. I want to reassure L that Ive considered all of these reasons 
thoroughly and I understand the difficulties that L faced. But I think these reasons fall outside 
of any responsibility that Aviva have here. 
My role is to decide if Aviva has acted fairly. And I can say that it has. The length of time 
from both the initial accident and from when the vehicle was eventually moved is 
considerable. There was another considerable delay after this in reporting the vehicle as 
missing. And I think Aviva has been prejudiced by Ls lack of action for such a long time. 
Further to this, the police say this is a civil matter. That means an insurable event hasnt 
occurred, and as an insurable event hasnt occurred, I cant ask Aviva to step in and cover 
this claim.
I sympathise with L and the stressful predicament it finds itself in. But Im satisfied Aviva has 
acted fairly and reasonably by declining this claim and I wont be asking Aviva to do any 
more. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman