DRN-1496962
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) wont refund the cost of 
repairs that were done to a car purchased by Mr C (her husband) on her credit card account 
in his capacity as a secondary cardholder. Mrs C brings her complaint under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
In May 2019 Mr C paid £399 deposit for a car from a garage (that I will call H) for his and 
Mrs Cs daughter in his capacity as an additional cardholder on Mrs Cs credit card account.
Shortly after taking delivery of the car issues with it were identified. These were repaired at a 
cost of £499.85.
Mrs C contacted H but it wasnt prepared to meet her claim for the repair costs incurred, at 
least not at the level she was seeking.
Unhappy with Hs response to her complaint, Mrs C submitted a claim under section 75 to 
Tesco Bank.
Tesco Bank considered Mrs Cs complaint. It paid her £50 for poor service but said it wasnt 
liable under section 75 in the particular circumstances of this case because there was no 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship, the goods being supplied to Mr C to then 
be gifted to his and Mrs Cs daughter.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld. In summary he said that Tesco Bank had done nothing wrong in declining Mrs Cs 
section 75 claim because there was indeed no valid d-c-s relationship.
Mrs C didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, having done so, I can confirm 
that Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same reasons.
 
 
 
Its clear Mrs C has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs C will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Section 75 makes the creditor (in this case Tesco Bank) jointly liable for a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services (in this case H) financed by 
credit. However, the creditor is only liable under certain conditions. One of these conditions 
is that there needs to be a direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the 
supplier.
This means the person who paid for the goods or services (the debtor) should have a direct 
relationship with the company that supplied the goods or service (the supplier), as well as 
with the credit card company (the creditor).
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 defines debtor as the individual receiving credit under a 
consumer credit agreement. In this case, the additional card holder (Mr C) paid for the goods 
(the car), but Mrs C is considered to be the debtor as she entered into the consumer credit 
agreement with Tesco Bank and is therefore liable to make the repayments under it.
The car that was purchased wasnt for Mrs C. All the paperwork and correspondence that 
Ive seen from Mrs C is only in Mr Cs name. Mrs C didnt enter into the contract with the 
supplier so she doesnt have a relationship with it. I also cant see  given the car was a gift 
for Mrs Cs daughter  how the purchase of it would relate to Mrs C. So in the 
circumstances, I think that Mr C (the additional cardholder) was the sole contracting party 
with the supplier.
Taking into account my reasoning above, Im not persuaded the necessary d-c-s 
arrangement exists for a valid claim against Tesco Bank under section 75. And therefore Im 
not persuaded that Tesco Bank acted unfairly when turning down Mrs Cs section 75 claim.
I would also add that Tesco Bank isnt responsible for the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its 
subject to it and if a valid claim is made under section 75 it will have to make the appropriate 
refund. However, it isnt responsible for explaining the consumer protection rules when 
consumers open an account or to make detailed reference to the same in its terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision represents the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure. 
Mrs C doesnt have to accept my decision, and if she doesnt do so, she will be free to 
pursue legal action against Tesco Personal Finance PLC or H. She may also be free to refer 
a complaint about H to The Motor Ombudsman.
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Peter CookOmbudsman