DRN-1608019
 
The complaint
Ms L complained about an instalment loan she took out with Provident Personal Credit 
Limited (trading as Satsuma) and said this was unaffordable for her. 
What happened
 Ms L took out an Satsuma loan for £1,000 in December 2018 which she was due to repay in 
12 instalments of £166. The loan hasnt yet been paid.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms L and Satsuma told us about this loan. He first of 
all thought this was a complaint we should uphold, but changed his mind about this when 
Satsuma sent us some further information.
After reviewing what hed found out about the way Satsuma had assessed Ms Ls loan 
application, our adjudicator thought that the loan wouldve looked affordable for Ms L. And 
given the checks Satsuma would be expected to carry out before lending to her, he didnt 
think Satsuma lent irresponsibly to Ms L. So our adjudicator now didn't uphold her complaint.
Ms L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Ms L mainly says Satsuma didnt do thorough checks and so it gave her a loan which was 
unaffordable for her. She told us that she was in over her head with debt - as her credit 
report shows. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide this 
complaint.
Satsuma provided Ms L with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ms Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint. Before lending to Ms L, Satsuma asked her for information about her financial situation, such 
as her monthly income and her outgoings. It also asked about any other credit commitments 
and carried out credit checks. 
Satsuma says it agreed to Ms Ls application after carrying out all the proper checks. And it 
relied on information Ms L provided about her monthly income and expenditure as well as 
information obtained from a credit reference agency. Satsuma checked her payslip to verify 
her monthly income and boosted her likely outgoings to include an extra safeguard when 
working out what she could afford to pay. Satsuma says the information it recorded for Ms L 
showed that shed be able to comfortably make the loan repayments. And in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
This was her first loan with Satsuma. So I think Satsuma could reasonably rely on 
information Ms L provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan 
term, and taking into account the information it seems Ms L told Satsuma about her monthly 
income and what she was paying out, this repayment amount looked comfortably affordable 
for Ms L. And I havent seen anything in the information that Satsuma gathered about Ms L 
that makes me think it shouldve realised that Ms L was going to find it difficult to afford to 
pay this loan in a sustainable way. 
Im sorry that Ms L had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments shed 
signed up to was difficult for her. I accept that in reality Ms Ls actual circumstances possibly 
werent fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information 
Satsuma obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Satsuma couldve only decided Ms Ls lending application 
based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Satsuma to ask Ms L to 
prove what she was declaring or check other information sources to verify what she had told 
them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. So unless Ms L mentioned her 
concerns about being able to afford this extra borrowing alongside her other lending when 
she applied to Satsuma for this loan, I wouldnt reasonably expect Satsuma to have enquired 
about all the information thats shown on the credit report Ms L has sent us. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Satsuma to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into her circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, 
to suggest Ms L wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Ms L has said, including 
the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate she feels strongly 
about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment but 
I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
Id just take this opportunity to remind Satsuma (or any third party) that it should discuss 
payment options with Ms L and treat her fairly and sympathetically. 
If Ms L needs further time to pay what she owes Satsuma and/or she would like help to sort 
out an agreed payment schedule or advice on how to manage her finances theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide her with 
useful contact details if she gives us a call. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman