DRN-3865094
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about how Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros handled
a claim under a home insurance policy.
Mrs and Mr M are represented in this complaint, but Ill just refer to them throughout. Ocaso 
had a loss adjuster (LA) handle the claim on their behalf, but Ill mainly refer to Ocaso.
What happened
The parties are fully aware of the background circumstances and so I wont rehearse these 
in detail. And where I reference specific dated emails, the parties have these and can refer 
to them for the relevant details.
Mrs and Mr M experienced an escape of water inside their property in 2017. Ocaso accepted
a claim and arranged for its agents to handle the matter and carry out repairs. Several years
later Mrs and Mr M continue to experience issues with the repairs carried out, including but
not limited to low water pressure, foul smell emanating from the bathroom and outstanding
snagging / repair issues. They also complain about the standard of customer service theyve
experienced.
Our investigator thought Ocaso needed to do more to put things right and recommended that
they pay £600 compensation, liaise with the local council to resolve the smell issue, arrange
for an increase in water pressure and decide on the claim issues raised by Mrs and Mr M in
correspondence dated 15 October 2021. In addition, the investigator considered Ocasos
proposals set out in an email of 12 September 2021 were a reasonable way forward for
those matters contained within.
Ocaso disagreed and Ive summarised their position as follows:
The water pressure might be related to pipework.
The smell isnt related to the claim but likely to come from the shower trap when not
used.
It doesnt have any other contractors available to attend the property given the 
breakdown in communications between Mrs and Mr M.
The loss adjusted recommended Ocaso make a cash settlement.
As agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent the parties a provisional decision on 16 November 2022. Both parties have 
acknowledged receipt and the only additional submission comes from Ocasos loss adjuster. 
The only issue raised was that of compensation and who would pay it. 
When handling a claim Ocasos duties include handling it promptly and fairly, not
unreasonably rejecting it and providing reasonable guidance to make a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress. And once terms are agreed it should settle the claim
promptly.
The background to the complaint is detailed and lengthy, unsurprisingly given the length of
time the parties have been in dispute. It seems though that the outstanding issues for
resolution chiefly concern:
Water pressure
Foul smell from bathroom
Snagging issues for repair.
Water Pressure
Ive seen a report from Ocasos agents Regional Performance Manager (RPM) concerning a
site visit on 22 May 2018, at which Mrs and Mr M had family representatives. Its recorded in
the report that the RPM had spoken to housing estate officials who managed the estate
where Mrs and Mr M reside, and it was accepted there were estate wide issues with water
pressure, and heating systems.
However, it appears a pump was installed as part of the insurance repairs and so if that
pump has or is failing or is unsuitable then Ocaso will need to address that and ensure its
working optimally as intended. And indeed, more recently the RPM has accepted when the
works were originally discussed pipework was mentioned which could alter the pressure.
Therefore, Im persuaded the water pressure issue is, on balance, related to repairs and so
Ocaso will need to investigate and remedy this.
Foul Smell
I havent seen anything to suggest that there were historic issues responsible for the foul
smell. It appears from the LA file some plumbing rectification work was carried out. While in
the immediate aftermath the smell may have reduced, since then it has been a consistent
complaint point that continues to impact Mrs and Mr Ms enjoyment of their property.
Im satisfied by what Mrs and Mr M have said about the smell that its a current issue and
wasnt a feature before the subject claim incident. Indeed, theres evidence that remedial
work was carried out on the pipework installed or repaired as part of the insurance claim.
Therefore, Ocaso will need to take steps to ensure that the foul smell is suppressed such
that Mrs and Mr M are able to live in the property without that smell. It appears the source is
in the bathroom and potentially the shower waste trap. That will need to be investigated to
ensure the pipework is compliant with relevant plumbing regulations and / or good plumbing
industry practice and remediated. If its demonstrated that the pipework is compliant and the
cause of the smell is an extraneous issue to the insured works and outside Mrs and Mr Ms
property, Id expect Ocaso to give reasonable guidance about what steps Mrs and Mr M can
take to progress investigation, be it the Council, housing estate officials or other relevant 
body.
Snagging list for repairsSince around 2018 many issues have been raised and addressed with some issues
unresolved. Theres a lack of contemporary notes to substantiate every single snag and I
understand the parties positions. For example, Ocaso query why snags havent been
mentioned previously by Mrs and Mr M, and yet they say, reasonably, that matters were
raised orally but Ocasos agents surprisingly didnt take notes at the time these were raised.
Were not a court and my role is to make a determination that I consider to be fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances. The investigator referred to a list provided to Ocaso by
Mrs and Mr M on 15 October 2021, which raised several issues including:
Basin in bathroom
Tank in cupboard
Bedroom doors
Shower pump
Skirting behind sofa
These matters were in addition to a list set out by Ocaso in an email of 12 September 2021
setting out specified works together with a four-day program to carry out repairs including
plumbing, carpentry, decorating and snagging.
While I appreciate that Ocaso doesnt appear to agree with the contents of Mrs and Mr Ms
email of 15 October 2021, the fact is by that time repairs related to the insured works were
still incomplete and this was around four years after the claim notification. Its very clear from
the information in Ocasos file, and from what Mrs and Mr M have sent, that handling of the
claim has caused distress and inconvenience. They have lived with fundamental issues that
have impacted the enjoyment of their property for several years including the smell, various
leaks, and poor repairs. This has necessitated lengthy and regular correspondence with
Ocaso and several visits to their property. And all this in the context of Mrs and Mr Ms poor
health. As such I will be making a compensatory award for more than what the investigator
recommended.
Putting things right
Ocaso must do the following:
1. Instruct a loss adjuster (LA) to visit Mrs and Mr Ms property:
a. The LA must be given the correspondence of 12 September 2021 and 15 
October 2021 referred to earlier in this decision.
b. The contents in these emails will be the sole basis of the repair work to be 
done.
c. The LA will need to assess the individual items in these emails and create 
a fully scoped schedule of works (SOW) to put the matters right.
d. In addition, the LA must price the SOW at market rate, that means
undiscounted rates that Ocaso may benefit from.
e. The LAs report must be provided to Mrs and Mr M.2. Once step 1 a  e has been completed Ocaso has the following options:
a. Instruct contractors to carry out the work according to the SOW;
i. if this requires the property to be unoccupied, for example because it
has no kitchen or bathroom facilities, then arrange alternative 
accommodation (AA) for Mrs and Mr M and the property occupants.
ii. Ocaso will be responsible for covering the cost of AA.
b. If Ocaso cant or will not offer contractors to carry out the SOW repairs, 
then it must pay Mrs and Mr M the market rate cost specified in the SOW.
c. If Mrs and Mr M dont want Ocasos contractors to carry out the repair work,
then Ocaso can offer a cash settlement. This settlement will be reduced
according to the discounted rates Ocaso can obtain from its contractors. This
could leave Mrs and Mr M having to cover any shortfall including their own
AA, if such is required.
3. Pay Mrs M and Mr M £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to put 
things right as described in the above section numbered 1  3.
Ocaso must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs M and 
Mr M accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman