DRN-3786790
The complaint
Ms W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined to pay loss of rental income for her 
property following a claim for escape of water.
Ms W has been represented by a third party throughout this complaint. However for ease of 
reading, all references to Ms W include the actions of her representative. 
What happened
Ms W had a second home that she insured with Aviva. In March 2021 she made a claim 
after visiting the property to find a number of leaks from pipes due to a spell of cold weather. 
The claim was accepted but repairs took some time. 
Ms W made three complaints throughout the claim. Two about the delays and handling of 
the claim and a third about the fact Aviva had declined to pay loss of rental income. She said 
that due to increased demand following the lifting of covid-19 restrictions, she had intended 
to rent the property as a short term holiday let. But because of the poor handling of the claim 
shed lost out on many months of income from this. She thought that Aviva should reimburse 
the money she would have made during this time, which she said would have amounted to 
around £12,000.
Aviva responded to her complaints about delays and awarded £350 compensation in total for 
the poor service. However it didnt uphold her complaint about loss of rent. It said her policy 
wasnt a landlords policy and therefore loss of rental income wasnt covered.
Unhappy with this Ms W brought her complaints to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaints. However the first two were brought after the 
required six month period, so we werent able to consider them. She considered the third 
complaint about the loss of rent payment but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that 
loss of rental payments werent included in policy cover and Aviva had already considered 
compensation for delays in the earlier complaints that we werent able to consider. So she 
didnt think it should do anything further. 
Ms W didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides agree that cover for loss of rental income isnt provided under the policy. 
However Ms W has said that she intended to rent out the property as a short term let and 
only didnt because Aviva delayed getting the repairs done. So she thinks this should be paid 
as a consequential loss of the poor service. 
As part of this complaint I can only consider whether Aviva acted fairly in declining to pay 
loss of rent. Aviva has addressed delays and poor service in other complaints which werent 
brought to us in the required time frames so I cant consider whether there were delays or 
how these should be compensated for. 
However as it relates to this complaint, Ive considered what Ms W has said about Aviva 
paying loss of rent as a consequential loss rather than as part of the policy terms. 
When Aviva agreed to take on the risk it did so as a residential property and not as a 
commercial one, that would be rented out. So I dont agree it would be fair to ask it to pay for 
losses that it couldnt have reasonably foreseen or agreed to.
Further, it seems that Ms W only decided to rent out the property shortly before the claim. 
Because of this, it isnt possible to know exactly when the property would have rented, how 
much for and how often. When this service considers consequential losses, wed usually 
want to see proof of the amount that was lost as a direct result of a delay. But here, as there 
was no recent evidence of bookings to show how much would have been lost before the 
claim, it isnt possible to know exactly what the impact was. I therefore find it too remote to 
say that Aviva has caused a loss, as the loss cant reliably be proven. 
But even if it could, as Aviva has only agreed to insure the property as residential, and the 
policy provides no cover for loss of rent, I dont think it fair to ask Aviva to cover a cost it 
could not have reasonably foreseen when the claim was made.
For these reasons I think Aviva has acted fairly by declining to pay loss of rent, so I wont 
ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman