DRN-3801094
The complaint
Mr P has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined part of his claim for storm 
damage to his home under his smallholders insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, in this decision, AXA also includes its agents, representatives 
and loss adjusters and Mr P also includes his representative.
What happened
Following a storm in December 2020, Mr P contacted AXA to report damage caused to both 
the structure and contents of his home by four inches of flood water. Water then appeared a 
few days later on the propertys ceilings. AXA appointed a loss adjuster to review the 
damage and subsequently settled Mr Ps claim for internal damage to the property by 
payment of a cash sum of just over £1,700. 
Mr P was unhappy that AXA wouldnt accept his claim for external damage and declined to 
replace the roof of his property. He also considered that AXAs cash settlement didnt cover 
all the internal damage. AXA maintained its view but offered compensation of £50 to Mr P 
as a gesture of goodwill due to delays in providing a final response to Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P then referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She thought that AXA had fairly declined to 
pay for the external damage and didnt consider it was due to a one-off event as the roof 
showed wear and tear, lack of maintenance and defective construction and she noted signs 
of previous repairs on the roof. In summary, it was our investigators view that a well-
maintained roof should have been able to withstand the storm and that the storm simply 
highlighted an existing issue. She said that the service couldnt look into complaint delays.
Mr P remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the case was referred to me 
for decision in my role as Ombudsman. In October 2022, I issued a provisional decision for 
this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether AXA applied the terms and conditions of its 
policy and treated Mr Ps claim in a fair and reasonable manner. Ive concluded that it didnt 
do so in all respects and Ill explain why Ive reached this provisional conclusion.
My starting point is the insurance policy itself. It states under the heading: Basis of 
claims settlement that it will cover the policyholder for damage to the insured property by 
any of the insured perils, which includes a storm event. It states that it may either...pay for 
rebuilding or repair, ormake a money payment instead without any deduction for wear and 
tear and depreciation provided that the property insured is maintained in a good state of 
repair and the property is insured for the full rebuilding value. The policy covers damage to 
property caused by storm but not a gradually operating cause.
Turning to Mr Ps submissions, he said that damage to skirting, architraves and doors as 
well as to the carpets were evident and that this hasnt been considered by AXA. He said he 
was given no advice or guidance by AXA as to how to deal with the sodden carpets or 
possessions. In January 2021, he started to notice water stains appearing on ceilings 
throughout the property. The loss adjuster queried whether the roof had leaked during the 
extreme downpour and he instructed property damage restoration experts to provide a trace 
and access report. Mr P said that the expert carried out a thorough inspection, but that AXA 
declined to accept the report as the experts had been instructed as drying specialists only. 
He said that the loss adjuster offered a theory that torrential rain washed away moss that 
was bunging up pre-existing holes and cracks and that the problem had occurred over time. 
Mr P accepted that there was evidence of previous roof repairs, but he didnt think that this 
evidenced wear and tear being the reason for the recent damage. He said that the major 
water leak led to widespread ceiling staining which didnt pre-date the storm. He said that 
hed owned the property for 17 years, during which one repair had been carried out due to a 
physical strike on the roof and that the roof was watertight at the sites of all previous repairs. 
He considered that corrugated asbestos sheeting of this type typically lasted 70 to 85 years.
Mr P said that the expert also advised that the interior of his home required assisted drying 
which would cost over £3,000 plus VAT, as well as removal of saturated insulation. Mr P 
said that AXA then forwarded the report to a building company: - with a vague request to 
present a scope and price to deal with the rip-out and replacement work. He said that their 
quote at just under £3,000 plus VAT didnt include the full extent of necessary work and was 
supposed to include £500 'towards repairs to the roof'.
As for AXAs submissions, it noted that the roof of the property was made up of asbestos 
composite and that there was developed lichen and moss growth, which would indicate no 
routine of cyclable maintenance. It thought that the roof was over 35 years old and didnt 
accept that any storm damage had resulted in the need for complete roof replacement, 
where previously the roof had simply been patched when it failed. AXA noted that the expert 
report suggested that the roof was leaking and that this was the cause of stains on the 
ceilings. Initially it stated that as the roof; started leaking just after the high winds I can 
accept that there has been some Storm damage. It also stated however that a valid storm 
claim would be where severe weather conditions damaged an otherwise sound roof but 
there was no evidence of storm damage to the roof. It said that this was compounded by the 
fact that the roof was very old, in a state of considerable disrepair, with historic repairs to 
various areas. 
It said that the reserve amounts of approximately £3,000 plus VAT represented the worst 
case scenario. It said that the figure of just over £1,700 was ultimately paid as regards the 
interior, as the claim in relation to the roof was declined in its entirety. It didnt think that 
further payments were due. AXA stated that the £1,700 included a figure of just over £1,400 
in the absence of a receipt for reinstatement for the carpet and a further payment of just 
over £300 in respect of contents.
In considering storm damage, our service has a three-step approach. We firstly consider 
whether storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage was said to have 
happened. In this case, both parties accept that a storm occurred with high winds and 
intense and substantial rain on the relevant day, with ingress of four inches of water into the 
property. Both parties also accept that staining to the ceilings emerged a few days after the 
same set of storm conditions happened. On a provisional basis, I therefore conclude that 
there were storm conditions at the relevant time.
The second question for me to determine is whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. Again, theres no dispute that water damage to the interior 
of a property would be consistent with damage typically caused by a storm with intensive 
rain. Similarly, with external roof damage, the lifting and cracking of roofing sheets would be damage typical of that often caused in a storm. I provisionally conclude that the claimed 
damage is consistent with storm damage.
The third question for determination is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. This will clearly be the case for carpets and certain contents and this element of 
the claim has been settled. I now however turn to the remaining elements of the claim. Were 
usually guided by what experts have said and Ive therefore considered the detailed report 
and photographs of the property damage restoration experts engaged by AXAs loss 
adjuster. 
The report makes it clear that the loft space was very wet, with water dripping down from the 
roof sheets and trusses. Consequently, the insulation was saturated. It said that this had 
occurred as the roof sheets had been lifted and displaced by strong winds. The report went 
on to say that; The evidence suggests a single causation event, i.e. the staining appearing 
all at once. The panels appear to have sprained around the fixing holes whilst the bolts have 
remained anchored. This has been deduced from the cracks and elongated bolt holes all 
running from front to rear of the roof. 
As to when this damage occurred, the expert stated; The only reasonable physical force that 
could achieve this would be high winds, however whilst this may have occurred over a 
period of time, - loosening the fixtures, cracking the panels and elongating the fixing holes, 
there is no evidence that there has been water ingress prior to the period immediately after 
the storm weather conditions on 23 December 2020. It said that the damage had occurred 
as the roof sheets had been lifted and displaced by strong wind. He considered that there 
had been a single causation event. 
Ive carefully considered the submissions of the parties, together with all evidence, to include 
the report and photographs of the property damage restoration experts. I note that the 
purpose of the report was to determine the cause of water staining on ceilings in the 
property, rather than to specifically determine the cause of the damage to the roof. 
Nevertheless, I consider this report to be persuasive regarding the main cause of damage, in 
the absence of any other detailed report or roof survey.
Theres no dispute that the roof is quite old and not in the best condition. It is for me however 
to determine the predominant reason for the damage to the roof. The expert states that this 
occurred as the roof sheets had been lifted and displaced by strong winds and that there 
had been a single causation event. There was no evidence of previous ingress of water at 
the damaged roof locations identified by the expert or of previous ceiling damage and 
staining. As the significant water staining to the ceilings appeared shortly after the storm in 
December 2020, I consider it likely that the intense rain had penetrated through the 
damaged roof sheets, soaked the insulation, and then caused damage to ceilings. On the 
balance of probabilities, my provisional conclusions are therefore that storm damage was the 
main and dominant cause of the damage and cracking to the relevant roof panels and 
consequently to ceilings and insulation.
I note that the report recommends that the roof will need to be replaced. Whilst it would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances to expect AXA to cover the cost of repairs to the 
relevant roof panels, I provisionally conclude that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect 
AXA to pay for an entirely new roof. Im satisfied from the photographic evidence that the 
roof is showing clear signs of wear and tear, is likely to be reaching the end of its natural life 
and will require replacement within the short to medium term in any event. I note that the 
roof has been previously patched in areas where it has failed, and in all the circumstances it 
wouldnt be fair to expect AXA to pay for entire roof replacement work. My provisional 
conclusion is therefore that AXA should settle Mr Ps claim by repairing the panels identified in the expert report dated February 2021 or make a cash settlement to Mr P to cover the 
cost of these specific repairs.
As to the interior of Mr Ps property, my provisional conclusion is that its likely that the 
insulation and ceiling damage was caused by water leaking through the roof due to an 
insured event. Theres been a reference to the need for assisted drying of the property and 
replacement of saturated insulation and repair of ceilings in this regard. My provisional 
conclusion on this element of Mr Ps claim is that AXA should either arrange for these works 
to be carried out or to make a cash settlement to Mr P to cover the cost of repair.
Finally, Mr P considered that the cash settlement for the internal damage was inadequate 
and didnt include damage to skirting, architraves or doors. Mr P hasnt clarified as to 
whether these works remain outstanding, and if so, the cost of such works. My provisional 
conclusion on this element of Mr Ps claim is that AXA should either arrange for these works 
to be carried out or to make a cash settlement to Mr P to cover the cost of repair.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Mr P and AXA if they had any further comments or 
evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P had no additional comments and he looks forward to the Insurers taking up the 
Ombudsmans direction and re-engaging with the him to conclude settlement of the claim. 
He added a stipulation that re-engagement shouldnt involve AXAs original loss adjusters, 
however he appreciated that he would need to address this point directly with AXA.
AXA provided a detailed response as follows. It partially agreed the recommendations in the 
provisional decision. It accepted that the policy covers accidental damage and therefore 
agreed that it should cover the damage to insulation and repair of ceilings to the bedroom 
only. However, it considered that the kitchen damage was historic and that it therefore 
shouldnt be required to cover this. 
Separate Claims
AXA states that Firstly, this claim was reported for flood damage with approx. 4-5 inches of 
water inside. The roof, if covered under the policy, is a separate claim for storm damage and 
a separate excess will be applicable.  I see that AXA addressed this point with Mr Ps 
representative in March 2021 and said that there appeared to be two separate claims, one 
for flood and one for storm. Although Ive found that the damage to Mr Ps property was 
caused by the same set of extreme weather events, I agree with AXA that an Excess sum of 
£100 would be payable for the claims against each of the insured perils.
The Roof
AXA didnt consider that the roof had been damaged by a one-off storm event. It maintained 
its position that the damage to Mr Ps roof was due to wear and tear. It stated: The fact that 
the insulation was soaking wet would support that rain water has been ingressing through 
the roof over a period of time, the insulation has soaked up the water, would dry out to some 
degree as heat rises, and then and eventually caused damage to the ceiling. 
I disagree that the evidence supports the likelihood that the damage in connection with these 
claims was caused by ingress over a period of time. The report of the property damage restoration experts engaged by AXAs loss adjuster refers to water dripping down from the 
roof sheets and trusses and consequent saturation of the insulation. This indicates a 
sudden, single event having caused the particular damage to the roof as identified by the 
expert who visited the property. The expert report also identified to two definite leak points in 
the roof.
AXA then repeated its previous submissions that the roof was very old, there was evidence 
of historic localised repairs to varied sporadic areas, the repairs were not a complete 
replacement of the roof and had been deemed appropriate previously, and now the 
expectancy is for insurers to replace the whole roof at considerable expense. 
AXA also maintained that a perils-related defect hadnt been identified or confirmed. It stated 
that the roof was of a non-standard construction for a residential property, that the roof and 
fascia boards were in a state of considerable disrepair. It makes the point that previous 
repairs appeared to be reactive repairs and not proactive maintenance aspects and that the 
fascia and barge boards to the front were flush with the external wall and partially covered 
the corrugations, whereas there should be overhangs on all elevations. It concluded that 
driven rain could get into the corrugations as exposed, and there was no capillary run off 
ledge if barge boards were flush with ship-lap panelling. Finally, AXA stated that the 
significant amount of developed lichen and moss growth indicated no routine or cyclable 
maintenance.
AXA does not supply new evidence to further develop its submissions. It notes that the 
provisional decision relies heavily on the expert report and that the expert report was 
contradictory and inconclusive as to the cause of the damage to the roof. It stated that the 
report indicated that the roof sheets had been lifted and displaced by strong winds and yet 
then stated that the only reasonable physical force that could achieve this would be high 
winds and that this could have occurred over a period of time. However, this point is 
ultimately addressed by the expert as he thought that there was a single causation event. He 
also noted that prior to the storm event there was no evidence of water ingress. Im therefore 
satisfied that the single causation event was the storm of December 2020 and that the 
damage was caused by an insured peril under Mr Ps policy. 
The only expert evidence supplied is that supplied on behalf of AXA, although I appreciate 
that it now doesnt concur with that evidence. I also appreciate that the purpose of the 
experts investigation was to determine the cause of water staining to the ceilings. His report 
went further however, and dealt in detail with the probable cause of damage to the roof. Our 
approach is that expert evidence is usually persuasive in the absence of compelling 
evidence to the contrary. Im therefore satisfied on the basis of the expert evidence, that Mr 
Ps claim as regards damage to the roof of his home should be upheld. This is supported by 
the AXA representatives early observation that the roof report suggests the roof is leaking, 
rather than the damage being condensation. As it started leaking just after the high winds I 
can accept that there has been some Storm damage.
Ceilings
AXA accepts that damage to insulation and ceilings is covered, however it states that the 
kitchen ceiling damage is not accepted, as the experts report refers to this as historical 
damage. However, what the expert report states is that there was water staining on several 
ceilings within the building and that he was informed, (presumably by Mr P), that these 
water stains had appeared simultaneously, apart from an historic patch in the kitchen. Im 
satisfied that Mr Ps claim for damage to the insulation and all ceilings throughout the 
property, save for the historic patch in the kitchen should be upheld.
Skirting, architraves and doorsAXA stated that Mr P didnt present a claim for this damage. It supplied additional evidence, 
being an email from Mr P to AXAs loss adjuster, giving the breakdown of internal damage 
for which Mr P had requested payment. AXA said it had issued payment in accordance with 
this request. It added that it had seen no evidence of any damage to the skirting, architraves 
and doors but that on receipt of photos and repair estimate it was willing to consider this 
further. I consider that AXAs handling of the internal damage has been somewhat confused 
and unclear. In March 2021 it stated that it had paid a global figure to include architraves and 
I would have expected AXA to have taken photographs when the flood damage was 
reported, or shortly afterwards. I therefore conclude that Mr Ps claim for damage to skirting, 
architraves and doors should be settled on receipt of a formal repair estimate, receipt or 
invoice for such damage.
In conclusion, subject to the points noted and agreed as above, I remain satisfied that AXA 
hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in response to Mr Ps complaint. In all the circumstances, I 
conclude that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter 
with a small adjustment to the finding as to skirting, architraves and doors.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to do the following: -
- To promptly arrange for repairs to be carried out to the roof panels identified in the 
expert report, or to pay Mr P (on provision by Mr P of a formal receipt or invoice for 
completion of such works), within 28 days of his acceptance of any Final Decision
- To promptly arrange for replacement of damaged insulation and repair of ceilings, or 
to pay Mr P (on provision by Mr P of a formal receipt or invoice for completion of such 
works), within 28 days of his acceptance of any Final Decision.
- To promptly arrange for any outstanding repairs to skirting, architraves and doors, or 
to pay Mr P (on provision by Mr P of a formal repair estimate, receipt or invoice for 
completion of such works), within 28 days of his acceptance of any Final Decision.
- to pay interest on the cost of repairs calculated from the date Mr P paid for any of the 
above items to the date of settlement, at 8% a year simple interest. If AXA considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman