DRN-3926645
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding their 
decision to close his accounts.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr S received a letter from Barclays which explained that theyd taken the 
decision to close his accounts and would do so in two months time. Mr S contacted Barclays 
and asked why theyd made this decision and was told it was because of business 
transactions taking place on his Blue Rewards accounts. Mr S wasnt happy about this, 
especially as a Blue Rewards account is a savings account and so cant be used for 
business transactions as Barclays maintained. And Mr S was also worried that the accounts 
closure may also include his Barclays mortgage account. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr Ss complaint. They reiterated their decision to close Mr Ss 
accounts but confirmed that their decision only related to his personal accounts and that the 
mortgage account would be unaffected. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he 
asked this service to consider his complaint.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They liaised with Barclays who confirmed 
that theyd made an error in their communication with Mr S and that the business 
transactions they held concerns about had taken place on Mr Ss personal current account  
on which business transactions werent permitted. 
Our investigator completed their review and felt it wasnt unfair for Barclays to close Mr Ss 
personal accounts as they had but recommended that Barclays should pay £250 to Mr S as 
compensation for the worry and upset hes incurred because of Barclays unclear 
communication. Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, and after taking all the circumstances of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note several detailed submissions provided to this service by Mr S. Id like to thank   
Mr S for providing these submissions, and I can confirm that Ive read and considered all 
submission provided by both himself and Barclays. However, I wont be responding in similar 
detail here. Instead, Ill focus on what I feel are the key aspects of this complaint which allow 
me to make what Im satisfied is fair and reasonable decision  in line with the remit of this 
service, as Ive explained it above.
Having reviewed all the information available to me and considered this complaint, I feel that 
both Barclays and Mr S have made mistakes here that have contributed to what happened.
I say this because when Barclays sent warning letters to Mr S highlighting their concerns 
about the business transactions taking place on his account, Barclays referenced the 
incorrect account  referencing a savings account when in fact they were concerned about 
business transactions taking place on Mr Ss personal current account.
However, Mr S has explained to this service that he was aware that there were business 
transactions taking place on his personal current account. And, given that Barclays had 
referenced a savings account on which business transactions couldnt take place, it seems 
implausible to me that Mr S wouldnt make what I feel is the relatively simple deduction that 
Barclays concerns here were about the business transactions that he knew were taking 
place on his personal current account.
Mr S has explained that he held regular meetings with his Barclays relationship manager 
(RM) and that his RM was aware of the business transactions on the account and had 
confirmed that they were acceptable and that they would look to inform Mr S if that was ever 
not the case. But I feel that the business transaction warning letters that Barclays sent to   
Mr S provided such notice and superseded any informal arrangement that Mr S may have 
had with his RM. 
Also, given that over six months passed between the issuance of the first warning letter to 
Mr S in September 2021 and Mr S being given notice of the closure of his accounts in April 
2022, Im satisfied that Barclays did allow Mr S reasonable time to make any alternative 
banking arrangements he may have needed to make.
Mr S has said that he called Barclays after receiving the first warning letter but was told by 
Barclays that the letter had been sent in error and could be ignored  which therefore also 
led Mr S to ignore the second warning letter. But Barclays have no record of speaking with 
Mr S at that time, and theyve provided contact records for a wide period surrounding the 
issuance of the warning letters which dont include any record of contact from Mr S around 
that time. 
I also dont feel that if it were the case that Mr S was told that the first letter was an error, it 
should reasonably be assumed that a later similar letter was also sent in error. Rather, I feel 
that in such a scenario, it should be recognised that whomever Mr S had spoke with at 
Barclays who told him the first letter was sent in error may have made a mistake.
Ultimately, Mr S was using his personal current account for business transactions which 
werent allowed by the terms of the personal current account. And while Barclay did quote 
the wrong account number in their letters to Mr S about this, I feel that Mr S should have 
reasonably understood that Barclays concerns related to the business transactions that he 
was aware he was making using a personal account. 
Additionally, Barclays are entitled to choose to close a customers accounts so long as they 
provide notice of their intention to do so in line with their terms. In this instance, Barclays did 
provide the requisite 60 says notice to Mr S, and for the reasons explained above Im 
satisfied that Barclays rationale for choosing to close Mr Ss accounts wasnt unfair. And it 
therefore follows that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr S by closing his personal accounts as they have.
However, Barclays communication to Mr S about their decision to close his accounts was of 
a poor standard. This is not only because they referenced the wrong account, as explained 
above, but also because they didnt clearly explain to Mr S which accounts would be closed, 
which led to Mr S being worried that his mortgage account may be affected. And I feel that 
Barclays should provide compensation to Mr S for the trouble and upset he unnecessarily 
incurred here as a result. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but the £250 recommended by our investigator 
does feel fair to me here and is commensurate with the general framework which this service 
uses when considering trouble and upset compensation amounts  details of which can be 
found on this services website.
Finally, Mr S has also expressed his unhappiness that Barclays have continued to charge 
premier banking fees to his current account for longer than should have been the case. But 
this service can only consider aspects of a complaint that the respondent business has had 
the opportunity to consider and respond to themselves. And this further aspect of Mr Ss 
complaint hasnt yet been raised by Mr S directly to Barclays such that they havent yet had 
the opportunity to consider and respond to it. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that this isnt an aspect of Mr Ss complaint that this service can 
consider at this time, and I can only refer Mr S to Barclays so that he may raise it as a new 
complaint with them, should he wish to do so.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows that while I will be 
upholding this complaint in his favour, Ill only be doing so on a limited basis to instruct 
Barclays to make a payment of £250 to him as described above. I hope that Mr S will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £250 to Mr S
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman