DRN-3968802
The complaint
A, a sole trading business, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly closed its bank 
account causing financial loss.
What happened
A says it found out that the account was closed in August 2022 and that it hadnt had any 
notice of this or received requests for it to complete know your customer (KYC) information 
for Barclays. A says it had to make other arrangements and this caused business disruption.
Barclays in its final response said that it had the correspondence address for A as a branch. 
It couldnt explain why and accepted this was an error. And so, the letters about KYC 
requirements went to the branch. This meant A was unable to provide the information and 
was why the account was closed. It told A that as the account was closed due to an error it 
could be reopened. But it said it would need to receive the update of As details to do so and 
sent it a form. It accepted that A hadnt been provided with the level of service it expected 
from colleagues. Barclays offered to pay A £200. 
In its response to this service Barclays further said that letters about the requirement dated 
29 April 2021 and 5 June 2021 were uploaded to As online banking too so there was an 
opportunity to see these. It said that a reminder and notice to close the account were sent by 
a third party on its behalf and so it didnt have a copy of these loaded to its customer 
correspondence file. Barclays said that it acknowledged that A would possibly not have 
received this final letter that had been sent in October 2021 with the notice of closure. But 
that the initial letters referred to the possibility of the account being closed if the 
requirements werent complied with.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do more than it had offered to. She said 
that Barclays had offered to reopen the account and to pay compensation. A hadnt 
supported its claim for compensation of £5,000.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2023 saying that I intended to uphold the 
complaint in part. I set out below what I then said.
A clearly asked for and expected to receive notifications from Barclays via post. I was 
unclear why if these had been sent to a branch they werent forwarded on to A. Or why no 
other attempts were made by that branch to deal with this. I hadnt then seen direct evidence 
that these letters were available on online banking and A didnt see them. I was unclear 
whether the actual notice of closure was uploaded to online banking as Id only seen a 
template. I noted there was said to be a backlog of nearly eight months in dealing with 
closing accounts such as As that werent KYC compliant. And I wasnt aware of the process 
during that time. I didnt find it most likely that A reasonably knew its account was going to be 
closed. Thats because I wasnt satisfied it had received the required notice under the terms 
and conditions of the account.
A is a trading business and would clearly be inconvenienced by the account closing. I 
understood it was able to access the funds in the account the day after it raised this. And the 
owner clearly had his own account to receive these funds. Id expect A to take mitigating 
actions and Id not seen evidence that however inconvenient it couldnt trade or make 
arrangements say to pay essential creditors.
Those mitigating actions also here included it applying for another account. I could 
understand why it didnt think Barclays offer after nine working days to re-open the account 
and if A completed its paperwork was an acceptable one. Every day without an account 
would be inconvenient. The owner of A has also referred to the time he spent dealing with 
this and there is reference to his view that customer service had been poor in the final 
response from Barclays.
I wasnt persuaded on the evidence that there was an unavoidable financial loss. I said I was 
going to deal though with the inconvenience to A and the distress to the owner. Id taken into 
account our published guidelines. We dont tend to award compensation for units of time or 
at professional rates. But I provisionally found that the inconvenience and distress involved 
including the need to take mitigating actions and open another account means that a total 
payment of £500 is appropriate. I appreciated that this is less than A wants. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A said it didnt accept my decision. Ive listened to a call he had with a member of staff at this 
service during which he was given the extra time to respond hed asked for. And hes sent a 
letter following that.
During the call he made a number of points which Ill summarise. He said that he didnt 
understand what the upholding of his complaint in part meant. He said that some eighty 
percent of the provisional decision was incorrect. He felt like he was wasting his time and 
that it might be better to pursue a legal route. He said that he was the only person here who 
was out of pocket and that this had destroyed his business and no part of this was his fault. 
Much of the evidence about what happened is with Barclays and we should have asked it 
about his phone calls. He wasnt offered a replacement account immediately and this only 
came after three weeks. 
He explained he needed to buy materials on a daily basis and all the money was in As 
account. He discussed that the impact including loss of earnings, anxiety and stress would 
be over £5,000. He was asked several times by the person he spoke to at this service about 
supporting evidence and was told it would be helpful to send as much as he could in his 
response. He said that he hadnt sent any yet and couldnt understand why our investigator 
had told him she had what she needed. He explained that his loss would be difficult to prove, 
and he didnt want to approach a customer and disclose his account had been closed as this 
wouldnt reflect well on him. There was some discussion about whether he could provide 
evidence of previous weeks of trading. 
He went on to say that what this had done to him mentally was more of a worry as had been 
the impact of trying to rectify things. This was beyond money. He was unable to understand 
how he could be penalised if it wasnt his fault. And that this was a miscarriage of justice. He 
wanted the loss for A to be put right before he even started to discuss compensation. He 
wanted common sense to be applied and to know where the figures had come from. The 
amounts of £200 and even £500 of compensation wouldnt go far today. He asked how he 
could prove things and said that hed lost his day rate whatever that was for two weeks, but it was a case of how long a piece of string is. He said it would be easier to show if hed been 
employed and not self-employed. He didnt want a blanket view taken and said that the 
case of A should be looked at individually and wasnt straightforward but that physical 
evidence was not that easy. There was a discussion about what he might do if he didnt 
accept the decision for A and about potential legal action.
In his letter he says he went to a branch on Saturday 20 August 2022 to activate a card. 
There was a problem and he discovered As account had been removed. A number of calls 
were made, and he finally found that this was due to the KYC exercise. He was told to go a 
branch on 22 August 2022 which he did and made calls from there for some four hours. He 
was told he could apply for a new account but then that applications werent being taken. It 
wasnt until three weeks later he was told he could open an account for A with Barclays. He 
wanted the money from As account transferred to him and was told this would be sent by 
cheque. The next day he found that other banks would take some two weeks for a new 
account and needed information from Barclays. He missed time working. He found that As 
money had been transferred to his personal account on 23 August 2022.
The owner didnt think wed understood the stress and anxiety this caused him. He hadnt 
received letters and Barclays had made a mistake. He wanted to be compensated for all the 
elements of what happened. This had a huge impact for a sole trader. If we make our 
assessment on what Barclays said he totally disagreed.
Barclays provided more information. It showed that the letters of April and June 2021 had 
been uploaded online for A to view too. And that there would have been a banner online 
saying that there was a requirement for information and that if this wasnt provided the 
account could be restricted or closed. It showed that A had logged in at relevant times when 
the letters would be available and hadnt taken any action.
Im going to deal with Barclays comments first. I accept that there may have been an 
opportunity for A to see these letters online. But not as I said in my provisional decision that 
it had most likely received the notice of closure. There were also potential opportunities for 
Barclays to tell A that the account was going to be closed in the period following October 
2021. I remain of the view that A didnt know that its account was going to be closed as it 
hadnt been notified in line with the terms and conditions.
Ill now address As points. And to clarify what I meant when I said that I was upholding this 
complaint in part. Id set out that Barclays had made a mistake. But I meant that I wouldnt 
be making an award of compensation for the financial loss A had requested and so 
upholding that part of As complaint.
A has said that there were factual mistakes in the provisional decision. The section above 
headed What happened includes a summary of what Barclays and our investigator said 
which I know A doesnt agree with. And then Ive gone on to set out what I said in my 
provisional decision. 
I dont have reason to doubt what A said about the experience of the owner in branches and 
on the phone at Barclays. And in my assessment too I set out that I didnt think that Barclays 
offer to open an account coming at least nine working days after the account had been 
closed was a realistic one for A. And especially as that relied on it completing more 
paperwork. And why A reasonably thought that the only option was to open an account 
elsewhere. Its also not in dispute that although A was initially told it would get a cheque with 
the balance on the account, the money was paid to the owners personal account on 23 
August 2022. While I can appreciate the owner would want to keep things separate, A was a 
sole trader and not a different legal entity. So, I remain unclear why materials or creditors 
couldnt have been paid for however inconvenient that was from this money. I note that in an introduction call about the complaint in October 2022 A was asked to 
provide evidence to support its financial loss. It didnt do so. And this was discussed at 
length following my provisional decision as I set out above. While I have the letter from A I 
dont have information to support this. So, taking that into account and also what Ive said 
about the potential for mitigating action above I dont have a basis both to quantify and then 
hold Barclays responsible for any specific financial loss.
I have the owners testimony about the impact on him personally which Ive considered 
carefully. And I appreciate what he says about the stress and anxiety caused and about the 
inconvenience of the branch visits and the calls. I dont have any details to support the 
amount of out-of-pocket expenses referred to including calls, fuel and car parking.
I mentioned before that we publish guidance around compensation, and Ive taken that into 
account. Ive applied my own judgement in assessing the distress and inconvenience 
caused based on what happened and what the owner of A has said. Having done so I know 
hell be disappointed when I say that the total amount of £500 remains in my assessment the 
appropriate and fair amount. A remains free to pursue this matter in court if it doesnt accept 
my decision and subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay A a total of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman