DRN-4034766
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled their business 
current account.
Mr and Mrs B want Lloyds to write off the outstanding debt and pay more compensation than 
has been offered so far.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B originally held a business loan with Lloyds that had been repaid. Mr and Mrs B 
also had a business current account that they continued to use after the business they ran 
had ceased trading. 
In March 2021, Lloyds told Mr B that as the business was no longer trading, it wasnt going 
to renew the overdraft facility on the current account. Lloyds said it would give Mr and Mrs B 
until 17 March 2021, to transfer any direct debits from the business account to a personal 
account. 
Mr B wanted more time to transfer the direct debits and shortly after asking for this, he was 
admitted to hospital for an operation. Mrs B explained the situation to Lloyds and asked for 
more time, which she says Lloyds agreed to. 
Lloyds later apologised for not making it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the direct debits were 
cancelled when it issued the formal demand in March 2021. And Lloyds also apologised for 
any miscommunication with Mrs B. Lloyds sent Mr and Mrs B £250 to apologise.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the situation as Mr B was in hospital at the time. They 
didnt think Lloyds gave them long enough to transfer the direct debits from the business 
account. Mrs B explained that she couldnt change all the direct debits while Mr B was in 
hospital. 
Mr B was also unhappy that Lloyds instructed a debt collection company to visit his house. 
Mr B says this was very stressful on top of recovering from a significant operation. 
The investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint be upheld. In summary he 
thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to close the account as it was being used for personal 
expenditure. However, the investigator thought that given Mr Bs circumstances, Lloyds 
shouldve given them more time to transfer the direct debits. 
The investigator considered Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £750 compensation 
and arrange to remove any negative information relating to the cancelled unpaid direct 
debits from their credit file. Lloyds accepted the investigators recommendation.  
Mr and Mrs B disagree with the investigators recommendation. Mr B says he was in hospital 
not knowing what his future would hold, only to return home and have a debt recovery 
company knock on his door. Mr B says Lloydss advertising stating that Lloyds Bank by your 
side is false. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But 
this doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
Although Mr and Mrs B were unhappy that Lloyds decided not to renew their overdraft facility 
and close the account, like the investigator, I dont think this was unreasonable of Lloyds 
given their business was no longer trading. So, my decision focusses on the way in which 
Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs B once it had reached its decision not to renew the facility. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B found the whole experience stressful  particularly as Mr B 
was undergoing a very serious operation in hospital and would be out of action for some 
time. I agree with the investigator that Lloyds shouldve done more than it did to support Mr 
and Mrs B when moving the direct debits. Particularly as Lloyds had previously allowed the 
account to remain open so that Mr and Mrs B could reduce the outstanding balance over 
time. Lloyds shouldve also honoured its agreement to halt recovery action to allow Mr B 
more time to recover. The question for me is whether the investigators recommendation that 
Lloyds pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £750 compensation, adequately reflects the impact the 
failures had on them.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I consider £750 is a reasonable amount of 
compensation in this case. Its at the very top end of the range of award that this service 
might make where the businesss mistake has caused considerable distress and worry. I do 
not in any way wish to downplay the very difficult situation that Mr and Mrs B were in at the 
time, but I think the award fairly acknowledges the worry caused to them.
This service doesnt regulate or supervise the business that we cover. And its not my role to 
punish Lloyds for the mistake. I understand Mr Bs concerns over the way that Lloyds 
advertises its services but this would be for the regulator to consider further, not this service. 
Although Mr and Mrs B would like Lloyds to write the outstanding balance off, I dont think 
thats reasonable in this case. Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of the money lent, so it seems 
fair for Lloyds to ask them to repay it. I would however remind Lloyds to treat any repayment 
offer that Mr and Mrs B might make, fairly and sympathetically.
In his view, the investigator also asked Lloyds to arrange to remove any negative data from 
Mr and Mrs Bs credit file that relates to the direct debits being unpaid due to being cancelled 
by Lloyds.  At present, I dont have details of what negative data has been reported. So, 
Lloyds should work with Mr and Mrs B to establish what, if any, negative data (relating to the 
unpaid cancelled direct debits) has been reported against them. If Mr and Mrs B need to pay 
for credit reports to establish this, I would expect Lloyds to reimburse these costs. 
It seems likely that any negative data will have been reported by third parties and not Lloyds. 
So, as part of arranging to remove the negative data, Lloyds should, if necessary, liaise with 
the third parties. If the third parties need to have direct contact with Mr and Mrs B, Lloyds 
should do what it can to help Mr and Mrs B get the negative data removed. 
I dont think that Mr B has cashed the £250 cheque that Lloyds sent. If Mr and Mrs B accept 
my decision, they shouldnt attempt to cash the £250 cheque, as Lloyds should issue a new 
payment for £750. For the avoidance of doubt, my award of £750 includes the £250 already 
offered by Lloyds. Putting things right
To put things right, Lloyds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B £750; 
Arrange for the removal of any negative entries from Mr and Mrs Bs credit files that 
relate to the direct debits being unpaid due to being cancelled by Lloyds; and 
Reimburse the cost of Mr and Mrs Bs credit reports if they provide evidence of the 
costs incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Lloyds 
Bank PLC to put things right in line with the above steps.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman