DRN-3583663
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to prevent him sending money to a safe 
account scam. 
Mr M has brought his complaint through a representative. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
just refer to Mr M himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary of some of the key events here. 
In March 2022 Mr M was the victim of a safe account scam. He was contacted by a 
scammer pretending to be from the fraud team of another bank he held an account with N. 
After gaining his trust, the scammer tricked Mr M into paying around £3,000 from his account  
with N to his Revolut account. Mr M was then tricked into transferring the money out of his 
Revolut account. 
Mr M reported hed been the victim of a scam and Revolut said they took the appropriate 
action. But unfortunately this didnt result in the recovery of a meaningful amount of money. 
Mr M complained, he alleged that Revolut had insufficient systems in place to protect him 
from fraud. Revolut said they couldnt provide a refund and the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has correctly highlighted industry guidance which means that Revolut should be alert 
to payments that might indicate that their customers are at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
But there is a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing 
customers free access to their own funds. It isnt practical or a reasonable expectation for a 
bank (or electronic money institute, EMI) to stop each and every payment. 
I accept that the payment for £3,000 was larger than any Mr M commonly made from his 
account, (although I note he had previously made payments of up to £2,000).  I also accept 
that it was to a new payee and used most of the available funds. But even taking that into 
account, I dont think the payment instruction was so unusual that its reasonable to expect 
Revolut to have done anything further prior to processing it. 
Mr M has also suggested that Revoluts account nickname feature meant he believed he 
was paying an account in his own name (a common feature of safe account scams). But the 
evidence from Revolut indicates that Mr M would have been shown a message that the 
account he was paying didnt match the details hed entered and asking whether he wished 
to continue. Im more persuaded by the evidence from Revolut. So, I dont think Revolut led 
Mr M to believe the account he was paying was his and contributed to his loss in this way. 
Mr M also says that he was a student at the time with limited knowledge of financial affairs 
which left him vulnerable to scams such as this. I accept that certain groups, such as 
younger people or students are potentially more susceptible to certain types of scams. But I 
dont think that, in itself, is a reason for Revolut to have done anything differently in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Im satisfied that Revolut took the appropriate action when Mr M reported the scam, its 
unfortunate that this didnt result in a meaningful amount of money being recovered. Im 
sorry to hear Mr M has been the victim of a cruel scam, but as I dont think (in the context of 
this complaint) that Revolut are responsible for failures that caused the loss or hindered its 
recovery, Im not going to tell them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman