DRN-3812302
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) shared third party 
information to his customer file. 
What happened
Mr M raised a separate complaint against Barclaycard with our service and was represented 
by his son, who I will call S within this decision. Due to an admin error, Barclaycard 
provided information related to S but this was quickly identified and fixed.
Barclaycard mentioned compensation that was awarded to S within its file submission. Mr M 
feels there has therefore been a data breach which has formed the outcome to his 
complaint. 
Barclaycard disagreed with this and said the original error of information about S being sent 
was not caused by them and they rectified it quickly. And any information mentioned about S 
on Mr Ws case was not account specific, so did not amount to a data breach. 
Our Investigator said that Barclaycard should remove all details about the third party from 
the original complaint and apologise to Mr W. They did not agree that compensation was 
due because Mr M had previously seen the information included in his file about S. 
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
The original error when Barclaycards file was requested did not originate with Barclays, so I 
cannot agree they made an error in the circumstances. 
In terms of Barclaycard mentioning in their complaint file that S had been awarded 
compensation, I dont think this has had a significant impact on Mr M. Ive considered his
comments carefully, but I also have to consider that when providing evidence on his original 
complaint, Mr M included a final response letter addressed to S that mentioned the 
compensation. So, this was information that Mr M himself submitted as evidence in relation 
to the case, and he therefore submitted this to be considered as part of the complaint. And I 
dont think it is unreasonable that Barclaycard then mentioned S and the compensation in 
their file, considering that the complaints were very similar. 
As a result, I dont think that Barclaycard referencing this in the file has significantly impacted 
Mr M. And for this reason, I dont think the details about the third party need to be removed 
from the original complaint, as they are relevant to what Mr M has mentioned. 
I appreciate Mr M has highlighted final decisions on other cases where we have awarded 
compensation. However, I am only able to consider the merits of this individual complaint. 
Having done so, I do not agree that compensation is warranted based on the circumstances 
presented. I also understand that Mr M has requested an apology from Barclaycard. While I 
can understand his reasons for wanting this, as I do not currently agree that Barclaycard has 
made an error in the circumstances, I dont think it is fair to ask them to provide an apology.
Barclaycard did not respond with any additional comments or evidence for me to consider. 
Mr M responded and disagreed with my provisional findings. He reiterated that he felt there 
had been a data breach which affected the outcome of his separate case. And that a third-
party had raised a similar complaint which had been upheld, so thinks this complaint should 
reach the same outcome.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments, and having done so, I still agree with the findings set out 
in my provisional decision. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I felt that, as Mr M had submitted in evidence the 
information he felt Barclaycard should not have mentioned in their file submission, I did not 
agree they had acted unreasonably. As they were addressing an issue raised as part of the 
complaint. 
Mr M has mentioned a similar complaint that has been upheld by our service. As I mentioned 
in my provisional decision, I am considering the merits of this individual complaint and 
having done so, I do not agree that compensation or an apology is warranted. I understand 
that Mr M is unhappy that I do not agree the information about the third-party needs to be 
removed from the original complaint. It should be clear that I dont think it has to be removed, 
but Im not saying that it cannot be removed. 
As mentioned above, I see no reason to deviate from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision and I do not think Barclaycard needs to do anything to remedy this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman