DRN-1756981
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has dealt with his 
complaint about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy associated with a 
credit card.
What happened
Mr L says he contacted Barclays directly at some time, to check if he had had been mis-sold 
PPI and was told Barclays could find no PPI on his account. He says he later went through a 
third party, in November 2017, to again question with Barclays if he had been mis-sold PPI. 
Barclays once more said it could not trace any PPI on the account.
Then in July 2019 Barclays wrote to Mr L and said it had made an error and now discovered 
there was PPI on the account. It said this PPI hadnt been mis-sold but did say it was 
offering £620.16 in compensation for excess commission that had been paid as part of the 
PPI premiums.
Mr L has now brought a complaint to this service directly, about this PPI and the 
compensation due. He feels that Barclays should pay additional compensation to cover the 
costs his claims management company (CMC) wanted as its fee, which had to be taken from 
the commission compensation Barclays paid. He said if Barclays had dealt with his case 
properly when he first raised the complaint with it directly, he wouldnt have had to pay the 
fees of the CMC. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and said he didnt think that Mr L should be repaid 
the CMC costs. 
Mr L remained unhappy and he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L hasnt complained that what Barclays has said about the PPI not being mis-sold is 
wrong. So Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold, as thats not in dispute.
In this decision I will only be considering whether Barclays has offered fair compensation or 
if it needs to offer anything further for consequential losses incurred as a result of the way it 
has dealt with the complaint about the PPI. 
Mr L says he complained to Barclays directly prior to November 2017 about  having a PPI 
policy related to his credit card account. He says he was told Barclays could find no PPI 
associated with the account. No correspondence or specific dates about when this complaint 
was made by Mr L have been provided. 
Barclays says it has no record on file about a PPI complaint being made directly by Mr L 
about PPI on his credit card. The first complaint it has registered from Mr L about this  was raised in November 2017, and this was brought by the CMC. In response to this complaint, 
Barclays responded again indicating it could find no PPI related to this credit card account. 
Then in July 2019 Barclays discovered some additional records and wrote to Mr L indicating 
its previous response was inaccurate and it had now discovered there was a PPI policy 
associated with the credit card account. This letter requested some additional information 
from Mr L and chaser letters were sent for the information, but it seems Barclays did not 
receive a response from Mr L.  
In September 2019 Barclays made an assessment based on the information it had available. 
It said it didnt agree that the PPI was mis-sold but it had found that some excess 
commission and profit share had been charged as part of the PPI premiums. And in line with 
the rules now in place, Barclays was refunding this excess commission, plus interest 
this had caused on the account and also paying some compensatory interest. The total offer 
was for £620.16 (after tax).
When Barclays contacted Mr L and the CMC in July 2019 it did so purely based on the 
information it had found and this was not a direct result of the CMC raising the complaint in 
November 2017. But as the records indicated a complaint was brought through a CMC it 
notified both the CMC and Mr L of its findings.
It was entirely Mr Ls decision whether he used the services of a third-party CMC. It was 
entirely his choice if he wanted to use a third party, so he is responsible for the fees charged 
by them. His agreement with the CMC was totally independent of any financial agreement 
with Barclays. If the terms of the agreement with the CMC were still valid in 2019, when 
Barclays notified of its new  findings, then it is Mr Ls responsibility to pay the CMC fees that 
he agreed to in his contract with the CMC.
I appreciate Mr L is frustrated because he recalls complaining to Barclays previously himself 
and being told he didn't have PPI on this account. Barclays also told Mr L, when the CMC 
raised the complaint in 2017, that there was no PPI. Sometimes things can, and do, go 
wrong and also over time more data and information has been found by many businesses. 
But once Barclays became aware of the inaccurate responses, it contacted Mr L to rectify 
the situation.
Taking all the facts into account, I think what Barclays has offered and paid for the 
commission compensation is in line with what we expect. I do not think that there are any 
additional consequential losses caused by the PPI that need to be refunded by Barclays. It 
was Mr Ls choice to use a third-party CMC and so he is responsible for payment of that 
companys fees. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Barclays Bank UK Plc has paid fair compensation and Im 
not upholding the complaint that it needs to pay anything more to Mr L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28July2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman