DRN-2369422
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has refused to refund a number of payments made 
from her account.
Whats happened?
Miss K says she befriended a man she met in person in early 2014 (the man), and their 
relationship grew over time. He became a big part of her life and daily routine. The man 
regularly explained that he desperately needed money to get himself out of financial crises 
and debt. So, over an 18-month period during 2014 and 2015, she transferred in excess of 
£40,000 to him (the payments). She thought that she was helping a friend out and she 
would be repaid. But she now realises that the man manipulated her for his own financial 
gain.
Miss K first approached Santander about this matter in 2018. She feels that the bank has 
failed to protect her, and that its acted negligently and irresponsibly. Shes said that she 
carried the payments out in Santander branches, often in the presence of the man, and that 
cashiers were aware she was making a number of payments to the same person. So, there 
were ample opportunities to intervene, but branch staff never questioned her or raised any 
safeguarding concerns.
Santander didnt agree to refund any of the payments. It said they were authorised, and it 
didnt have any concerns that something untoward was taking place.
Miss K asked this Service to consider her complaint, and one of our investigators looked into 
what had happened. In summary, he said that the payments were authorised by Miss K, they 
werent particularly unusual or suspicious, and there were no other indications of financial 
abuse which Santander shouldve picked up on. He also found that, even if Santander had 
questioned Miss K about the payments, she wouldve been able to satisfy it that the man 
was a genuine person and not a scammer.
Miss K didnt agree with our investigators conclusions, so her complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Miss K authorised the payments. In broad terms, the starting 
position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations (in 
this case the 2009 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
But as a matter of good industry practice, when these events transpired, I consider that 
Santander should have been taking proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions 
 particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the 
result of a scam.
Santander has said the payments werent particularly unusual or suspicious. But Miss K 
disagrees. Shes said that the payments werent small, they were made regularly, and shed 
never made transactions like this before.
Ive looked at Miss Ks account activity before and during the period the payments were 
made. The payments are of relatively low value (albeit that the amounts arent small to 
Miss K), they were made over a protracted period, and Miss Ks account wasnt quickly 
drained of funds as is typically the case with fraud and scams  it retained a healthy credit 
balance throughout. 
The circumstances of this case are somewhat different to those typically seen in the type of 
scam Miss K says shes fallen victim to as well. More often than not, the scammer meets 
their victim online and pretends to be in a relationship with them, whilst making up stories for 
why they need money. Its rare for the scammer and victim to meet in person, and money is 
often transferred to banks outside of the UK. But Miss K met the man in person, she says he 
was a big part of her life and he often went into Santander branches with her to make the 
payments, which were to UK based accounts.
Nevertheless, the volume and frequency of the payments to the same payees is unusual. 
Santander hasnt been able to provide this Service with a copy of its safeguarding policy 
from the time. So, I cant say whether it followed its internal procedures. But in the 
circumstances, I think it shouldve done more to satisfy itself that Miss K wasnt at risk of 
financial harm anyway  for example, by taking her aside and asking her some probing 
questions about the payments. And Ive gone on to consider whether the banks intervention 
would have made a difference and stopped Miss K from going ahead with the payments. 
We asked Miss K what she wouldve said if Santander had questioned her and she wasnt 
sure  shes said she was being manipulated into thinking everything was normal. From 
Miss Ks own testimony, Im persuaded that she was so taken in by the man at the time, that 
she wouldve proceeded with the payments regardless of any intervention. I also think she 
would have been able to satisfy the bank that the man was a genuine person and not a 
fraudster if it had suspected that she may be the victim of a scam and intervened, 
particularly as she says the man often went to the bank with her.
So overall, although I think Santander ought reasonably to have done more to try and protect 
Miss K from financial harm, I dont think any intervention from it wouldve made a difference. 
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to tell Santander to reimburse the payments 
on the basis that it failed to take action which wouldve most likely prevented them from 
being made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept or reject 
my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman