DRN-2390536
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) have treated them
unfairly following a claim under a Buildmark policy.
What happened
Given the history of this claim is extensive and well known to both parties, I have
summarised events within this background. I have also previously issued a jurisdiction 
decision outlining what aspects of the complaint I can and cannot consider. For this reason, I 
wont repeat the concerns or NHBC responses to points Im unable to consider.
Mr and Mrs B bought a new build property in December 2017. Alongside the purchase of the
property a Buildmark policy was included  a warranty provided by NHBC. In April 2018 Mr
and Mrs B contacted NHBC to claim on their Buildmark policy, saying there were a range of
issues across the property. NHBC produced two reports covering concerns about the 
property in September 2018 and January 2019 respectively. This second report provided 
commentary to the list of issues raised, saying around half of them had been resolved, with 
the remaining issues to be completed in the future.
Following further concerns, NHBC wrote to Mr and Mrs B in March 2019 with a final
response letter. Within this it said the claims team would settle the claims by way of
cash settlement, and in line with the policy terms. It said a schedule of works and cost
calculation had been completed for each claim in line with the amount it would cost NHBC to
have the work done itself.
On specific issues it said the garage wouldnt be impervious to wind driven rain so could be
damp at times, and this didnt amount to non-compliance. It also said the cracks above the
lintel were as a result of thermal movement which wasnt covered by the Resolution Service.
NHBC said gutter leaks had been fixed, a door issue had been repaired, and it needed
further evidence to show decorative issues were reported promptly upon occupation to
consider it any further.
NHBC also discussed works related to turf, slabs, and a WC. It concluded that any dispute
regarding whether corrective work was required ultimately sat with the builder, and that
NHBC offers assistance to resolve the issue under the Resolution Report. And again, it
referred Mr and Mrs B to this service if they were unhappy.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service on 22 June 2019. They outlined this
experience had been incredibly stressful and had a significant impact on them. They asked
for a full refund for the property and compensation to the value of around £1,000,000. Mr 
and Mrs B also accused NHBC of fraud and collusion with the builder.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He said his scope was limited to only 
the actions carried out by NHBC following the builder not completing required works NHBC 
had told it to. And of the issues outstanding, he considered whether the cash settlement 
provided was fair in relation to mis-matched mortar works. NHBC had offered £397, and Mr 
and Mrs Bs own contractor had quoted £320 plus VAT. On this basis he felt NHBCs offer 
was enough to cover the works and this was fair. He also referred Mr and Mrs B back to 
NHBC for any complaints about events that followed after the final response was sent.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, saying NHBC had failed to investigate all of their concerns raised 
across the life of the claim, as well as failing to complete repairs as it shouldve. They 
reiterated NHBCs settlement offer was still too low and that it should provide a full survey. 
Following my jurisdiction decision, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision 
on the cases merits. Mr and Mrs B have raised additional concerns about repairs and the 
actions of the builder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
Under section two of the Buildmark policy, NHBC provides a resolution service. Under this 
service it will act as a mediator between a consumer and a builder. In doing so it will identify 
what faults there may be in a newly built property, decide what works need to be done, and 
then tell the builder when the repairs need to be completed by.
This resolution service isnt a regulated activity in itself. This means a complaint about 
NHBCs decision of what faults are identified or not identified, or what repairs are necessary, 
or the projected completion date fall outside of our jurisdiction.
But we can consider complaints where:
a resolution report has been completed; and
the report directs a builder to do something by a deadline; and
the builder has failed to complete the works by this deadline.
In this case NHBC has produced Resolution reports in September 2018 and January 2019. 
Within the second report it detailed a number of issues. It said concerns about garage 
flooding, a cracked lintel, front door lock required no further action. For the reasons given 
above, I cant consider these matters further.
The report also said action was required on the topic of debris remaining in the garden, 
chipped bricks, and cracked at the rear elevation of the property, and a damp course being 
too low in places around the property. A deadline of 12 October 2018 had been set. And its 
clear the works werent completed by this date.
Of these remaining points Mr and Mrs B have complained about the tinting of their brickwork. 
NHBC has provided a broken-down schedule of works remaining from 30 January 2019 
which includes the work it says was necessary to put right the items outlined above. It said 
its cash settlement for the remaining items was calculated fairly and it wouldnt look to 
increase this  but it did offer to visit the property to provide further clarification given Mr and 
Mrs Bs concerns.
This leads me to ask whether NHBCs cash settlement is in line with its policy terms and is 
fair and reasonable. The policy says NHBC will calculate how much it has to pay based on 
the amount it will cost it to have the work done.Mr and Mrs B said works completed had led to mismatched mortar. And they provided a 
quote from their own contractor to the value of around £384 for tinting works. Theyve also 
said a stone mason would be necessary to complete works to the brickwork and estimated 
the cost to be around £2,000 but havent provided any quotes or reports to support this.
NHBC said the schedule it had provided included a sum of £205 for a scaffold tower, and 
£192 for the tinting itself (totalling £397) which it estimated would take four hours. Mr and 
Mrs B said their quote supplied was only for two areas and therefore would be considerably 
more expensive than the cost quoted by NHBC. They also said their contractor would take 
three days to complete the works instead of one.
As part of NHBCs schedule of works, its quote included a sum towards The builder should 
carry out work to improve the appearance of the pointing to the cracks and may wish to 
consider cosmetic tinting of the affected areas. And its clear to me its factored a cost to the 
sum of £397 to complete the tint works to the affected areas.
Id also note that within the resolution report, it said The builder should carefully cut out and 
replace the damaged blocks. It should be noted that there may be some shade difference 
between the new and old work. This suggests to me the focus of this resolution report was 
about replacing the damaged bricks, not any colouration difference.
But in any case, NHBC has made an allowance for these costs. And while I take on board 
Mr and Mrs Bs concerns, Im not persuaded theyve shown NHBCs settlement is unfair. I 
say this as their comments are speculative and they havent given supporting evidence 
(such as quotes) to show that NHBCs settlement is too low. 
And on its face, NHBC has allowed for £397 against their own quote of around £384. On this 
basis, Im satisfied NHBC has made a fair and reasonable settlement for the required works 
under its resolution report. And Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs B have said they believe NHBC should complete a full survey as opposed to just 
considering the items that have already been accepted. As Ive outlined above, this isnt a 
requirement under the insurance Im able to consider, so its not something I will direct 
NHBC to do.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman