The complaint
Mr G believes his whole of life policies were mis-sold by Phoenix Life Limited t/a SunLife. He 
also says he has paid more into both his policies than he would get back and if he cancels 
them he wont be entitled to a refund. 
Mr Gs son has brought this complaint on his behalf but for ease Ill refer to his actions as 
that of Mr G. 
What happened
Mr G took out a whole of life policy with SunLife in November 2007 at a cost of £18 per 
month. This was due to pay £1,340 (sum assured) in the event of his death. Mr G says he 
wanted to increase his sum assured so he decided to take out a further whole of life policy 
with SunLife in February 2009 at the same cost per month and with a sum assured of 
£1,280. 
In January 2019 Mr G contacted SunLife to make a complaint. Mr G says the policies were 
mis-sold because it isnt fair that he has now paid more into both policies than the total sum 
assured. He was also unhappy that if he cancelled both policies he wouldnt be entitled to a 
refund. SunLife looked into the issue but didnt uphold the complaint. It said the premium is 
fixed from the start of the policy. It said it didnt provide any advice on the sale of either 
policies. Instead it provided Mr G with the relevant information before and after they started. 
These left it up to Mr G to decide if he wanted the policies or not and told him he could 
cancel them if he changed his mind. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to this service. He says 
the monthly premiums should be reviewed now that he has paid more than the sum assured. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but felt the policies hadnt been mis-sold. He said Mr 
G was provided with the information which told him he could end up paying more premiums 
than the cash sum payable on his death. And the policy said it had no surrender value.  
Mr G disagreed so the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the same reasons.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than DRN-1039648
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In order to decide whether they were mis-sold I would need to be satisfied SunLife did 
something wrong and Mr G lost out as a result. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think these 
policies have been mis-sold.  
SunLife has said the sale of both policies was on a non-advised basis. This means that it 
didnt recommend them to Mr G personally or advise him to take them out. Ive not seen 
anything such as a record of a discussion about Mr Gs needs and medical circumstances or 
a suitability check to show me clearly that it did make a personal recommendation to him. 
SunLife has said that it only has a copy of Mr Gs signed acceptance from the sale in 
November 2007. Given the passage of time since the sale this isnt uncommon or 
unreasonable. SunLife has been able to provide some copies of the sales literature from 
2009.
The terms and conditions sent to Mr G for the second policy state that depending on how 
long he lived he could end up paying more in premiums than the sum assured. They also 
state he had the right to cancel and change his mind but if he did he wouldnt be entitled to a 
refund of his premiums. 
I dont believe a whole of life policy is mis-sold if a consumer pays more in premiums than 
the sum assured. As long as this possibility is pointed out before the policy is started. Mr G 
signed and returned the declaration in 2007 stating he had read and understood the key 
features and that he was happy that the policy met his needs. So Im satisfied  on balance 
 he received the necessary documentation explaining how the policy in 2007 worked. Im
also satisfied he received confirmation of the second policy which made his right to cancel
and change his mind clear.  Having reviewed these, I think the policy terms were clear and
by returning the signed forms Mr G was affirming that he had understood this. As a result,
Im not satisfied SunLife did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman