DRN-2908914
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to execute, in a timely manner, 
his instruction to alter the investment of his pension savings. And he says that Aviva failed to 
deal with his complaint in line with its own published timescales, or the requirements of the 
regulator.
What happened
Mr L holds pension savings with Aviva. In March 2020, Mr L became concerned about the 
market volatility being seen at the start of the coronavirus pandemic. So he decided to move 
his pension savings to safer investments  he decided to move them into a cash deposit 
fund.
On 9 March 2020 Mr L says his pension savings were valued at approximately £598,000. 
Around 1pm on that day he gave an electronic instruction for Aviva to transfer his holdings. 
However that instruction wasnt completed until two days later, meaning that his pension 
savings had reduced in value to around £564,000. Mr L complained to Aviva about that 
delay.
In response Aviva explained to Mr L that it had acted in line with its terms and conditions. It 
told Mr L that his original pension investments included funds held on the Asian markets. So 
given the time difference, and to prevent some investors taking advantage of fund 
movements when the markets were closed, an additional day was added to the normal 
processing timescales. Mr L was unhappy with that response and so brought his complaint 
to us.
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ls complaint. He noted that Avivas terms and 
conditions did allow for a period of up to one month for any sales of investments to take 
place. So he didnt think that Aviva had treated Mr L unfairly when he asked to change his 
pension investments. And he didnt think any delays in Avivas complaint handling processes 
had caused Mr L to lose out. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr L didnt agree with that assessment. He pointed out that the terms and conditions also 
required Aviva to notify consumers if it was imposing a delay to any asset sales. And he 
questioned whether the terms and conditions that were issued when he first took out his 
pension were still applicable more than ten years later. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr L and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think I should first deal with the part of Mr Ls complaint regarding the time it took Aviva to 
answer his complaint. Where the subject of a complaint is solely about the length of time it 
took a business to deal with a complaint, it might not be something that we have jurisdiction 
to consider. Id need to be persuaded that any delays had a direct impact on the provision of 
an on-going financial service.
Here, the matter that forms the main substance of Mr Ls complaint  the delay to the 
switching of his pension investments  was not on-going. So even I if considered that I had 
the jurisdiction to deal with the complaint about the time Aviva took to give its answer, 
I would not be persuaded that he had lost out. The time Aviva took in dealing with the 
complaint did not impact, in any way, the substantive problems that he had complained 
about. They were largely historic by the time the complaint had been made  the assets had 
already been switched to the new investment. So I dont think there is reasonably anything 
more that I should say on this part of the complaint.
Turning now to the time it took Aviva to process Mr Ls instruction to switch his pension 
investments into the cash deposit fund. I think that my starting point for considering this part 
of the complaint should be the terms and conditions that were applicable to the pension plan. 
Aviva has confirmed to me that those are the same terms and conditions that were issued to 
Mr L in 2009 when the plan was first opened. I entirely accept Mr Ls comment that the 
method he used to submit his instruction  an online request  was not envisaged when the 
terms were written. But I dont think it unreasonable that Aviva considered his secure online 
request to be equivalent to the written instruction detailed in the terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions made it clear that an investment switch, as instructed here by 
Mr L, comprises both a cancellation of investment units, and their reinvestment. And, when 
looking at the terms governing the cancellation of units, Mr L was told the following;
The cancellation of units takes place using the unit price that we make available 
depending on the time the request (together with all our requirements) is received by us, 
but we reserve the right to use a later unit price if the use of the next available unit price 
would allow you to use already known market data to your benefit..
Aviva has said that generally the next available unit price is fixed at 11pm on the day the 
instruction is received, and actioned the following day. But, where holdings include 
investments in the Asian markets, the price isnt taken until 11pm the following day. It says 
that means that investors cannot benefit from knowledge of events that have already taken 
place (due to the time difference and hence market closing hours) when selling funds of that 
nature.
It doesnt seem to me that Aviva has acted outside of those terms and conditions when 
actioning Mr Ls switch instruction. His investments did hold assets from the Asian markets, 
and so it isnt unreasonable that Aviva placed a one-day delay to his sale. And in normal 
market conditions that might have passed entirely un-noticed.But of course the reason Mr L was asking Aviva to make this switch was because the market 
conditions were far from normal. At that time the markets were experiencing significant 
volatility at the start of the coronavirus pandemic. And so Mr L, quite reasonably, would have 
wanted his transfer to complete as quickly as possible. But I dont think that was sufficient 
reason for Aviva to over-ride its normal approach here. So I think it acted correctly when it 
set the effective date for Mr Ls request as being two days later.
I have considered that those dealing periods might not have been made sufficiently clear to 
Mr L. The terms and conditions only talk about the next available price, rather than the more 
detailed explanation Aviva later provided, regarding both the time the price was set, and the 
impacts of holdings in the Asian markets. But, for the reasons I explained earlier, it seems 
that Mr L simply wanted to switch his investments as soon as possible  it wasnt as if he 
wanted the change to happen on a specific date. So even if he had been sufficiently aware 
of how long the switch would take  Im not persuaded that he could have acted any 
differently.
So, although I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr L, I cannot reasonably 
conclude that Aviva treated him unfairly in the time it took for his investment switching 
instruction to be implemented. I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman