DRN-3367075
The complaint
Miss M complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) dealt with her request 
for help with her loan repayments.
What happened
Miss M says she asked RBS to reduce her loan repayments as her income reduced due to 
maternity leave. She says she was given conflicting information and was told she would 
need to go into arrears before any help could be given. Miss M says she didnt receive a 
promised call back and was then told maternity leave was not classed as an unexpected 
drop in income but an event that could be planned for. She says RBSs actions have caused 
her stress and would like compensation for what took place.
RBS accepts it made mistake and gave Miss M incorrect advice as well as incorrect 
information. It has apologised for part of the complaint and has paid £135 compensation. 
RBS says it will pay a further £75 compensation but says it cant help Miss M further with 
reducing her loan repayments.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the total compensation offer 
appropriate. The investigator thought RBS acted fairly by telling Miss M that she had a time 
period to prepare for the reduced salary.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and says the compensation offer isnt appropriate and 
questions why she cant receive help in these circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that RBS has made an appropriate 
compensation offer of a further £75. I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision 
and accept that her financial position may have changed due to the passage of time since 
her original complaint.
I make clear to Miss M that we are not RBSs regulator and so its not our role to tell it what 
its policy should be for these sorts of circumstances. But a bank or building society should 
treat customers positively and sympathetically when they are in financial difficulties. I can 
see that RBS has fairly provided Miss M with details of organisations that could help her.
I accept that Miss M asked RBS for help in advance of the pending drop in her income and I 
appreciate her concern to be told that RBS couldnt help her until her account was in arrears. 
I have no doubt Miss M wanted to avoid that and that was the reason she called RBS. I also 
accept that Miss M didnt receive a promised call back from RBS and was given conflicting 
information.
The key issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. I dont think Miss M suffered 
any financial loss, but I accept she was caused distress and inconvenience at what I accept 
was a time when she would have wanted to concentrate on other matters. Im satisfied that 
RBS has fairly paid compensation and the further offer of £75 is fair and reasonable when 
combined with that amount. I find that award is line with the types of awards we would make 
for this type of mistake and fairly reflects the impact it had on Miss M.
Putting things right
RBS should pay a further £75 compensation as it has agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of a further £75. Miss Ms acceptance of that offer would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman