DRN-3746396
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt fairly settled his home insurance claim. 
Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes its respective agents unless specified 
otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved, so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Mr R notified Aviva about a leak in his bathroom that was causing damage to the 
surrounding area and the kitchen below. 
Aviva told Mr R that he wasnt covered for the cost of repairing the source of the leak 
 which isnt in dispute in this case. The policy does however allow him to claim for 
the cost of removing and replacing any other part of the buildings necessary to find 
the source of the leak and make good.
Mr R appointed a local plumbing firm (Company A) to find and repair the leak. During 
the process of the leak repair, he got back in contact with Aviva to start a claim for 
the damage that was covered under his policy. 
Aviva logged the claim, telling Mr R that someone from its building team would be in 
contact within two working days to discuss next steps and to arrange sending a 
contractor to review the damage. 
But after Aviva made contact within the agreed timescale Mr R informed it that as 
well fixing the leak, Company A had almost finished repairs to all the damage 
caused. Mr R wanted to make a claim for these costs at an amount of £9,233.75.
Aviva asked Mr R to provide copies of Company As invoices so it could validate the 
costs being claimed for. But Aviva said it would only pay a cash settlement amount 
that was in line with what its contractors would have charged to do the insured works.
On receipt of the invoices, Aviva wasnt satisfied a sufficient breakdown of the costs 
being claimed for had been provided  namely a separate cost for the leak repair as 
this wasnt covered and therefore needed to be excluded from any settlement. 
What followed was a notable period of back and forth communication between the 
parties about the invoice detail, with Aviva saying it still hadnt received a sufficient 
breakdown of certain material costs and the leak repair. It therefore offered a cash 
settlement of £3,511.04 minus a £500 policy excess which it said was based on its 
network costs and the information Mr R and Company A had made available to it.
Mr R didnt accept this. He said when he registered the claim with Aviva it told him to 
go ahead with the work hes now claiming for without explaining any restrictions. And 
that he went with Company A given their availability and the urgency of the repairs 
(the leak was affecting access to his family bathroom). 
Mr R further argued that the rates Aviva was basing its cash settlement on were not 
attainable in his local area. And that he was never afforded the opportunity to use 
Avivas network contractors, so he said it was unfair for Aviva to base its cash 
settlement on these contractors rates. 
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it found no evidence that it told Mr R to 
go ahead with the works he was now claiming for. And that under the terms of the 
policy its entitled to settle the claim as it has in the circumstances. It said it would 
reconsider parts of the claim settlement costs on receipt of the further breakdown it 
had previously requested prior to its cash settlement offer.
Mr R requested a breakdown of Avivas cash settlement offer  namely the 
hourly/daily rates of the network contractors the settlement was based on and proof 
of availability of these rates. He was told this couldnt be provided due to data 
protection, but Aviva later confirmed the reason it had given for not providing this 
information was incorrect and it apologised. 
It said the rates between Aviva and its contractors is a private contract and is 
confidential between the parties and so wouldnt be provided to Mr R. Instead it 
explained the general approach on how the rates were calculated and said it would 
provide Mr R with the overall schedule of works costs. 
Mr R complained to this Service. He wanted the claim settled at the full amount he 
paid Company A plus general damages, including payment for his time in dealing 
with the complaint. He also wanted this Service to carry out a thorough investigation 
into Avivas working practices and he alleged that Aviva may have acted fraudulently 
by misrepresenting the reason it couldnt provide a breakdown of its contractor rates.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and concluded Aviva had acted fairly 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Under the policy terms, Aviva can settle a claim by replacing, reinstating, repairing 
or payment. 
Its important to note that the settlement method thats selected is ultimately Avivas 
choice. And would usually be decided once its had time to review the claim, explore 
the different methods of settling it and understand the scope of works necessary to 
carry out repairs or replacement. Ive kept that in mind when considering this case.
Aviva argues that Mr R proceeded without notifying it of Company As costs which 
meant it wasnt given the option to judge the amounts, agree to the works needed or 
utilise its own suppliers so it could track and mitigate costs. It says Mr Rs actions 
therefore left it in a position where it was unable to consider all the settlement options 
available to it under the policy  thus prejudicing its position.
It seems reasonable then, that it decided to pay a cash settlement to Mr R that it says 
is in line with the policy terms. These terms state that if Aviva agrees to make a cash 
settlement it will only pay what it wouldve cost it to replace the item as if it were new.
This is a standard approach in home insurance policies and seems to be what Aviva 
has done in this case. Its provided a schedule of works and an overall breakdown of 
how the settlement has been calculated, omitting any information that it deems 
commercially sensitive which its entitled to do. So on the face of it, its acted fairly. But there can be individual instances where it may be fairer for an insurer to pay 
more than the costs it wouldve incurred. For example, Mr R says when he registered 
the claim, Aviva told him to go ahead with the works hes now claiming for without 
caveat and without giving him the option of using its contractors instead of his own. 
If the evidence presented to me showed that this was the case, and Company A 
were the only contractors available to Mr R within a reasonable timescale, this might 
equate to one of those individual instances. So Ive listened to the call where Mr R 
formally registers the claim with Aviva to hear what was discussed. 
Mr R tells Aviva at that stage Company A were in the process of fixing the leak. Its 
my understanding that Aviva hasnt taken issue with the costs its ascertained were 
incurred in tracing and accessing the leak. And its covered them in full, except the 
cost to repair the leak which isnt insured and not in issue between the parties
But Mr R doesnt mention on this call that repair works are starting on the damaged 
areas of his home that Aviva would rightfully have a say on  or that he was going to 
appoint Company A to carry out these repairs and what they were charging for them. 
Aviva advised Mr R the claim has been logged and that hell receive a follow up call 
in a few days to discuss next steps and about sending out a contractor. Mr R seems 
to accept this timescale with no mention of the urgency of things progressing sooner. 
Mr R is told on the call that he doesnt need to do anything else at that stage other 
than to wait for the follow up call. Notably, he agrees to do this without any further 
questions. At no point is he told by Aviva on this call to go ahead with the repairs hes 
now claiming for. And I cant see this was said at any other point either.
Im aware theres another call that took place prior to the one Ive referenced, that 
Aviva hasnt been able to obtain. This is unfortunate as I accept Mr Rs argument that 
the repairs may well have been discussed on that call too and so its relevant.
But on balance of the information I do have, had Mr R previously been told he could 
go ahead with the repairs hes now claiming for, I think its likely he wouldve raised 
this on the call I have been able to listen to. Especially when the advisor mentioned 
about sending Avivas own contractors  something that likely wouldnt have been 
needed if Aviva had already agreed on a previous call that he could appoint his own.
It follows, based on the available information in this case Im not persuaded Aviva 
told Mr R to go ahead with the repairs hes now claiming for. And Im satisfied had 
Mr R waited for Avivas follow up call as agreed, he likely wouldve been offered the 
use of its network contractors at that stage, potentially negating a need for him to 
appoint his own at the cost hes incurred.
From what Ive seen in this case, the fact this didnt happen wasnt Avivas fault. So 
Im not holding it responsible for this or directing it to pay a greater cost than what it 
wouldve paid its own contractors to repair the insured areas of Mr Rs home.
The cash settlement Aviva has offered is based on its network contractor rates for 
the relevant labour and materials its been able to ascertain apply to the insured 
works and repairs from the invoice breakdown Company A has supplied it with. 
Aviva has provided a scope of works setting out the overall costings and says it may 
reconsider parts of this on receipt of the further breakdown its requested from 
Mr R and Company A. I think thats a fair approach in all the circumstances of this 
case.
It follows, based on the information available to it so far, Im satisfied for the reasons 
set out above that Aviva has fairly settled the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. I therefore wont be directing it to increase its cash settlement offer, or to compensate Mr R for general damages and time spent dealing with the claim. But if it 
hasnt done so already, Aviva should also pay the applicable VAT on its cash 
settlement offer on receipt of the relevant evidence and VAT invoices relating to the 
insured works.
Ive considered all Mr Rs comments including allegations of fraud and breaches of 
contract.  One of Mr Rs main points about Avivas conduct relates to the provision of 
its contractor rates. Aviva accepted and apologised for refusing to provide this 
information based on data protection, but informed Mr R that the rates were subject 
to a private contract between Aviva and its suppliers. And as far as Im aware, Aviva 
has maintained its position on this.
Its well known that information requests can legitimately be refused based on 
prejudice to commercial interest. And while thats not absolute, Im not persuaded 
that it would be fair in this case to expect Aviva to release specific details of the 
contractor rates it has agreed in private contracts with its suppliers to Mr R. 
From his own retrospective research, Mr R says hes been unable to find any local 
tradespeople who could carry out the repair work hes claiming for at the amount 
Aviva has offered in its cash settlement. So he thinks its a breach of contract for 
Aviva to base its offer on rates that arent achievable.
On balance of the information available to me, I dont doubt the contractor rates 
Aviva says wouldve been available to it for Mr Rs repair works. Its entitled under the 
terms of the policy to base any cash settlement on these rates and as Ive already 
explained above, I think its fair for it to do so in all the circumstances of this case.
It follows these points dont change my conclusion. But my decision doesnt prevent 
Mr R raising any allegations of fraud, or overall misconduct outside of this Service 
should he wish to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman