DRN-2234884
The complaint
Mrs H complains that (Esure) hasnt dealt fairly with a claim she made for water damage on 
her home insurance. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020.
The background to this complaint is complex, but in summary, Mrs H had bought both home 
and emergency insurance cover though Esure. Esure provides the home insurance, and 
insurer A the emergency cover.
My provisional decision was only about what Esure did  not insurer A. So I wont comment 
on anything insurer A did. Where I mention Esure in this decision that includes all of its 
representatives and contractors working on its behalf.
In mid-January 2019 Mrs H told Esure about a water leak that had damaged both her 
bathroom and kitchen. Esure agreed to consider the claim, and sent an assessor to look at 
the damage. Drying work started and Mrs H was offered £2,500 as a cash settlement so she 
could complete the repairs herself. Mrs H didnt think that was a fair offer. The drying work 
started.
At the end of January Mrs H asked Esure about alternate accommodation as she had no 
working bathroom or kitchen. Although it was apparent (or should have been) to Esure that 
Mrs Hs household included people with serious physical disabilities, and it did say it would 
look into this for Mrs H, no alternate accommodation was provided until she made a formal 
complaint at the end of May. Esure acknowledged it didnt provide a good service.
In the meantime Esure had asked Mrs H to get four quotes for the work, as she hadnt 
accepted its first offer. Eventually Esure said none were acceptable, and at the end of April 
sent its own contractor to scope the work, without telling her it had asked the contractor to 
call. Following this, in early June, Esure offered Mrs H a cash settlement of just under 
£7,000 or, if she wanted, the option of Esures contractor carrying out the work. Mrs H says 
this was the first time the latter option was offered  but by then shed lost faith in Esure and 
its contractors.
Mrs H says Esure then pressured her to settle the claim, and she reluctantly accepted the 
cash offer, even though she said she wanted to wait until her complaint to this service was 
concluded. In early July Esure sent Mrs H a cheque to cover the cash settlement it had 
offered and about £2,000 for her to pay her hotel bill. Mrs H had to cash the cheque to pay 
the bill  but she says she kept the rest  the cash settlement  for a long time to see what 
the result of her complaint to us was. Esure said it would pay any additional money if 
instructed to do so by me.
Mrs H has had the work done to put her home right, but had to get a family member to 
borrow the money on her behalf  so they were out of pocket. I assessed the value of the 
work at £14,115.67. Mrs H also said shed lost her income as a foster carer because her 
home wasnt in a fit state once the bathroom and kitchen were damaged. Esure said Mrs H 
had no insurance cover for lost income so it wasnt responsible for this.
Esure paid Mrs H a lump sum of £800 to make up for the time she spent in the home when it 
wasnt fit for occupancy. Mrs H also reported that some food was damaged  but Esure 
didnt want to pay for this, as it thought tinned and packaged food wouldnt be damaged.
Esure offered Mrs H £500 to make up for the way one of the contractors had contacted her  
and later said this was also compensation for any lost earnings. 
My provisional conclusions were:

1. This claim should have been settled by 21 April  a month after the drying certificate 
was issued. I base this on Esures statement in the email at the beginning of July that 
the work would take no more than a month.
2. I cant see that Ms H delayed this claim. She got quotes in good time when asked, 
but didnt receive settlement details until early June. Ms H said the amount wasnt 
enough and explained why she didnt want to use Esures contractor. I think what 
she said was reasonable given the way shed been treated.
3. I dont think Esures entitled to offer Ms H a reduced cash settlement in the 
circumstances Ive summarised above. So I currently think it should re-imburse Ms 
H with the difference between what its already paid and the cost of the remedial 
work.
4. Ms H sent us some paperwork for the work thats been done. Shes explained that 
there was extra work needed in the kitchen because some items were damaged more 
than originally thought. Esure doesnt want to pay the extra costs. I dont think thats 
fair. Its not unusual for worktops, skirting and light fittings to be damaged by water and 
for this not to be apparent until work starts. Esure says there were only two wall units  
but Ive seen two in place on the photos and the gap where the third had fallen off the 
wall, so Im not sure why this has been disputed. I think Esure should pay for all the 
kitchen work.
I also think Esure should pay for the cleaning, as I think that would be necessary across
the whole house after major work, which was delayed by Esures actions.
5. Ms H says some of her food had to be thrown away. Esure says theres no reason 
to throw out tinned or packaged food and no-one mentioned this earlier. Ms H says 
she didnt know she could include the food in her claim, but when she cleared a 
cupboard found it spoilt. I think Esure should pay for the spoilt food.
6. It does seem from the information Ive seen that Ms H had some extra work done over 
and above repairing the damage caused by the leak. Thats understandable, but not 
something I can ask Esure to pay for. Unless Ms H can show me why she should get 
more, Im going to ask Esure to pay for the kitchen repairs (£11,655.67) and the 
amount shes paid for bathroom work included in the original schedule of works. I 
estimate this to be about £2,050 plus VAT. If that figure is accepted it brings the total 
to £14,115.67.7. Ms H says one of her family members had to take out a loan for some of the work, as 
she couldnt do that herself. The loan was interest free and is still being repaid. 
Repayments started in January 2020. So Ms H (or her relative) is carrying the burden 
of making the repayments, and doesnt have the use of this money (about £285 a 
month). I think Esure should pay Ms H some compensation for this. I think the fairest 
way to do this is to calculate interest at the statutory rate on each of the payments 
from the date of payment to the date the reimbursement is made. Its for Ms H and her 
relative to decide what to do about the remainder of the loan  Esure wont be 
responsible for that once settlement is finalised.
8. Esures own notes about the disturbance allowance say £800 was a starting figure and 
that could have been increased. Ms H and her foster child had been without proper 
cooking facilities for 113 days. Our investigator though Esure should increase this to 
£10 per day, to £1130. I think Esure should pay a minimum of £5 a day for the foster 
child  too  an additional £565. £10 and £5 a day for an adult or child respectively is the 
general starting point for calculating disturbance allowances across the insurance 
industry.
9. Ms H was left to fend for herself in a damaged home whilst trying to look after a foster 
child. She lost some of her fostering income in late January and all of it at the 
beginning of May. This was only because of the state of her home. I dont think Esure 
is responsible for Ms Hs lost income in the early part of this claim  thats an 
unfortunate consequence of being a foster carer with a damaged home. But I do think 
Esure should compensate Ms H for any income she lost from 21 April until 19 
September (six weeks after Esure paid the cash settlement). Thats about 22 weeks. 
That allows time for the work to be done and for her home to be re-inspected by 
fostering services. I accept Ms H hadnt had the work done by this date, but it wouldnt 
be fair for me to ask Esure to pay for lost earnings once a reasonable time period has 
passed. Ms H will need to send us some evidence of lost earnings to support any 
payment and well share those with Esure before I make my final decision.
10. Esure has already offered £500 compensation for the way it dealt with this claim. I 
think it should increase this to £1,000 to cover the effect its actions have had on Ms H 
and her family. I say that because Esures actions have not only affected Ms H but 
also her foster children, who have had to be moved, and her relatives, who have had 
to step in to cover costs Esure should have paid.
11. Ms H says shes suffered financial difficulties because of the delays. Im not going to 
suggest an award for this as I cant see that Esure has had a chance to consider this. 
It might like to do so as a separate complaint, and we can forward information if Ms 
H chooses to send details to us. If Ms H is unhappy with Esures response, then Ms 
H might be able to refer that to us in due course.
I went on to outline how Esure should put things right.  This was to:
Pay Ms H £1,695 disturbance allowance. It can deduct from this any disturbance
      allowance its already paid.
Pay Ms H the amount of lost income shes suffered from 21 April to 19 September.
Pay £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms H has suffered. Esure 
can deduct from this any compensation its already paid.Pay Ms H £14,115.67 for the repairs. It can deduct the amount its already paid towards 
the claim.
Esure should also calculate statutory interest* at 8% simple per year on each of the loan 
instalments made from January 2020 to the date of payment and pay this to Ms H.
Esure should pay for the electricity and the ruined food if it hasnt already done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs H and Esure have responded to my provisional decision. Mrs H has sent some 
additional information and explanations about her circumstances.  One point she made 
was that it wasnt a disabled child who lived with her, but her adult son (as well as any 
children she fostered). He had to be cared for elsewhere once the home wasnt fit to live 
in. That must have been very difficult for both, but I think the disturbance allowance I 
recommended remains appropriate at £1,695.
Esure doesnt want to compensate Mrs H for lost income because it says she wasnt 
insured for this loss. But I wasnt asking Esure to pay this because she was insured 
against such a loss if caused by the water damage. Instead I said Mrs H only lost this 
income because of the way Esure handled her claim and the unnecessary delays it 
caused. Mrs H has sent us evidence that she was paid £346 a week for fostering a child, 
and we know she had one child removed from her home. The relevant social services 
department has confirmed it placed no children with her after the kitchen and bathroom 
became unusable. So I think my recommendation that Esure compensate Mrs H from 21 
April 2019 to 19 September 2019 remains. Thats 22 weeks and equates to £7,612.
Esure has sent a summary of what the surveyor said when he first assessed the damage 
in the kitchen, and thinks this is the limit of its liability. It says its seen no evidence there 
was additional damage so doesnt want to pay for this. Ive already explained why I think 
Esure needs to pay the additional amount. If it had handled the claim as it should then the 
additional damage would most likely have become apparent earlier and been dealt with. 
Its too late for extra damage to be assessed now, so Esure must meet the cost of the 
repairs Mrs H had done. Esure says cleaning could have been organised if necessary, so 
I see no reason why it shouldnt pay for this as well.
Esure also says Mrs H did delay the progress of the claim by not responding to its offer of 
a cash settlement for  it says  about ten weeks. But Esures own notes say it was in 
contact with Mrs H during this period and knew she wanted to wait for her complaint to us 
to be resolved. It also knew shed lost faith in its contractors, and that Mrs H suffered a 
bereavement during this time. Esure says it believes Mrs H was adamant she wanted a 
cash settlement throughout the claim, although it hasnt sent any evidence to support this. 
Mrs H said she was never offered anything else until early June. Im more persuaded by 
Mrs Hs recollections, supported as they are by the initial (rejected) cash offer made by 
Esures representative.
Esure says wiping tins of food after theyve been water damaged would have meant the 
contents were safe to eat. But Mrs H said there were packets too  and I cant see how 
Esure would know the food was safe. Nor do I think it makes a difference when Mrs H 
reported this loss  as she says, she wasnt aware initially that the food could be claimed 
for.  Esure doesnt want to compensate Mrs H (or her relative) for taking out a loan to help her 
put her house right. It argues that Mrs H had the option of repair or a cash settlement so 
had no need to take out a loan. Ive already commented on this point and I see no reason 
to change my view on this. Mrs H pointed out that a deposit (£1,407) was paid as well as 
the monthly payments, so this needs to be added to the interest calculation.
Esure has also commented on the disturbance allowance it offered. It says it cant see 
any notes that says it knew about foster children  but that it cant access all the records. 
It hasnt said it objects to making the additional payment, and Ive already commented on 
why the revised amount is fair. 
Finally Esure says it thinks the £500 compensation it offered was fair. I dont agree. Esure 
caused Mrs H a great deal of distress  her disabled son had to be cared for outside his 
home, she was left in a house she shouldnt have been in and lost her livelihood for 
longer than necessary because of Esures actions. I remain persuaded the compensation 
should be £1,000.
As I said in my provisional decision, this decision does not cover any financial difficulties 
Mrs H might have suffered during this period, because Esure hasnt had a chance to look 
at these. Mrs H could make a fresh complaint about this if she so wishes.
Putting things right
My recommendations remain largely unchanged, although I can now put some more 
certain figures on the award.
To put things right, Esure should:
Pay Ms H £1,695 disturbance allowance. It can deduct from this any disturbance
allowance its already paid.
Pay Ms H the amount of lost income shes suffered from 21 April to 19 September. That 
equates to £7,612.
Pay £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms H has suffered. Esure 
can deduct from this any compensation its already paid.
Pay Ms H £14,115.67 for the repairs. It can deduct the amount its already paid towards 
the claim.
Esure should also calculate statutory interest* at 8% simple per year on the deposit and 
each of the loan instalments for the remedial work made from January 2020 to the date 
of payment, and pay this to Ms H.
Esure should pay for the electricity  calculated at £105.65, and the ruined food if it 
hasnt already done so.
Mrs H may need to send Esure evidence of the various amounts shes spent before Esure 
makes payment.
*HMRC requires Esure to deduct tax from this amount before its paid to Ms H. Ms H may be
circumstances. Esure must give Ms H a tax the amount deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Esure Services Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman