DRN-3728109
The complaint
Mr F complains that Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) allowed his Self- 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to be invested in high risk investments. And that 
Westerby accepted pension business from a firm that only had permissions for 
insurance and reinsurance mediation.
What happened
Westerbys been represented by two law firms for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and those law firms have made submissions on behalf of Westerby at 
various times. For simplicity, Ive referred to Westerby throughout, whether the 
submissions came directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf.
As I understand it, Mr Fs accountant introduced him to Mr L. Mr F says Mr L advised him 
to bring his pensions together to have more control over them. Mr F says he told Mr L that 
he wanted to take tax-free cash from his pension monies in a couple of years and didnt 
want to put his money at risk. Mr F says Mr L advised him to put his money in three funds, 
so if one failed not all his money would be lost.
In April 2013 Westerby received Mr Fs application for a SIPP. The SIPP application 
form was signed by Mr F on 8 April 2013. Section 9 of the application says Do you 
have a financial advisor?. This was answered yes and the details of Mr L of Joseph 
Oliver were added but no address for Joseph Oliver was given. The form also recorded 
that initial commission of 5% of the monies being transferred into the SIPP should be 
paid to Mr L.
Westerby wrote to Mr F on 12 April 2013 and acknowledged receipt of his application.
Mr F was a member of several pension plans. Mr F transferred the monies from these plans 
into a SIPP with Westerby. As I understand it, around £90,000 was transferred in total.
Westerby says it understood Mr L was, at the time of the application, an appointed 
representative of Joseph Oliver  Mediacao de Seguros LDA (Joseph Oliver), a financial 
advisory firm based in Portugal. At the relevant time, Joseph Oliver passported into the 
UK under the Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD). This means that during those dates, 
Joseph Oliver was an EEA authorised firm and permitted to carry out some regulated 
activities in the UK.
An application form for an investment platform called ePortfolio Solutions, distributed in 
the UK by a business called Asset Management International (AMI), was also 
completed. This recorded the financial advisor as Mr L and the advisory firm as Joseph 
Oliver Marketing Limited (JOML). JOML was a UK registered company, which was not 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
The financial advisor signed a declaration on the application on 8 April 2013. The 
application was also signed by Mr F on the same date and was later signed by Westerby, 
as trustees of Mr Fs SIPP. Some of the money placed on the ePortfolio platform was 
invested in the Kijani Commodity Fund (the Kijani Fund), and some in the Swiss Asset 
Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF), both of which were based in Mauritius. The 
remainder of the money was either held as cash or invested in other holdings.
Abana Unipessoal Lda
On 17 May 2013, Joseph Oliver wrote to Westerby, to say Mr L had terminated his 
agreement with it and that, following this, Mr Ls clients would return to him. On the 
same day Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) - another financial advisory firm based in 
Portugal  wrote to Westerby to explain that Mr Ls clients were to be transferred to it. 
So, Abana became the financial advisory firm associated with Mr Fs SIPP after this 
date.
Updates on the investments
On 11 November 2014, Westerby wrote to Mr F about his investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. It explained that the funds would, following a Policy Statement from the 
FCA in August 2014, be considered to be non-standard assets. Its letter also said the 
Mauritian Financial Services Commission (MFSC) had issued enforcement orders 
against both the Kijani and the SAMAIF funds.
It explained that such assets are often speculative and high risk, and that it only permitted 
such assets where full investment advice had been provided by a regulated financial 
advisor. It further explained that the investments might be higher risk than Mr F originally 
considered, and it was therefore imperative that Mr F discuss this with his financial 
advisor.
Westerby strongly urged Mr F to contact his regulated financial advisor, and it provided 
the details for Mr L and Mr G of Abana, and asked Mr F to confirm whether he wanted to 
continue to hold the investments or for Westerby to attempt to sell them. Mr F signed a 
form on 12 November 2014 to confirm that hed sought financial advice from Mr L and 
wished to retain his investments in the funds.
On 23 June 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr F providing an update on the Kijani Fund. The 
letter reminded Mr F that the Kijani and SAMAIF funds were now considered non-
standard assets and explained:
The Kijani fund was being investigated by auditors. The fund managers had taken 
the decision to liquidate all assets and return client investments within 30 to 60 days.
This information had been given to Westerby by AMI, but it hadnt been able to 
ascertain who made the statement originally.
Some investors had made redemption requests over 90 days ago but not received 
any money.
The advisor dealing with Abana clients (by this point a Ms B, not Mr L) had become 
directly authorised with the FCA under a new firm  Abana (FS) Ltd.
Abana customers were in the process of being novated (moved over) to Abana (FS) 
Ltd.
Again it strongly urged Mr F to contact his regulated financial advisor, (referring, I 
assume, to Abana (FS) Ltd). It didnt however ask Mr F to confirm whether he wanted 
to continue to hold the investments on this occasion.
Abana wrote to Mr F on 26 June 2015 and explained that it wasnt authorised to give 
the advice it had given him about his investments as it didnt have the necessary 
permissions. The letter also sought to clarify that, contrary to what had been said in Westerbys earlier letter, Abana wasnt novating its clients to Abana (FS) Ltd as it didnt 
consider that firm to be suitably independent. Abana explained it was likely that Mr F 
would need to have his SIPP reviewed by an independent advisor with the necessary 
permissions.
Westerby then wrote to Mr F again on 17 July 2015 and explained that the licence of 
the administrator of the ePortfolio Solutions platform had been suspended by the 
MFSC. The letter also explained to Mr F that other funds held within his SIPP had also 
been suspended, including the SAMAIF. It was explained towards the end of the letter 
that:
we recommend that you seek financial advice from an independent financial 
adviser who is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Please be aware that 
as detailed in our accompanying letter Abana FS Limited are not deemed to be 
suitably independent.
Ive not seen a copy of the accompanying letter Westerby sent to Mr F. However, Ive 
previously seen a copy of a letter Westerby sent to consumers in July 2015 and in 
which it was explained that Abana customers werent, in fact, being novated to Abana 
(FS) Ltd. Further, that Westerby understood the reason for this was that Abana didnt 
consider Abana (FS) Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice. In these cases 
Westerby urged consumers to have their SIPPs reviewed immediately by an 
independent financial advisor with the necessary permissions.
Westerby wrote to Mr F again on 28 July 2015. In the part of this letter that weve 
seen it was noted, amongst other things, that:
We write further to our letter of 17th July, in order to provide you with an update 
regarding the suspended funds held within the SIPP E-Portfolio Solutions 
portfolio. The overall value of the SIPPs portfolio was £98,179.68 as at 1st July 
2015. Of this, the value held within the suspended funds were as detailed below:
Kijani Commodity Fund £48,925.20
Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income Fund £38,153.66 
International Money Market Fund £548.32
On 23 December 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr F again. The letter said:
we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss 
Asset Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF) and the Kijani Fund
We have been in correspondence with the new managers of the platform and 
with Asset Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale) 
request. We understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed.
The illiquid funds within your portfolio cannot be sold at present, and will 
remain within the SIPP EPS account for the time being.
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current value of 
the liquid and illiquid elements of the investment are as follows:
Liquid Funds: £49,231.76 (SAMAIF expected to trade again in 
February) Illiquid Funds: £49,028.72 (this is not a true value - please 
see below)The letter also sets out the redemption timescale for what are described as underlying 
funds, including the TCA Global Credit Fund, the Lucent Strategic Land Fund and the 
Premier Socially Responsible Investment Fund.
The letter says the following about SAMAIF:
We have been informed that the suspension on this fund has been lifted, 
however it is not yet active, pending final authority from the Mauritius Financial 
Services Commission.
EPS have included the value of this fund in the Liquid Funds referred to above. 
We have been advised that this is because the underlying assets and the value 
of the fund have been verified, and that the fund is expected to begin trading 
again in February 2016.
A Westerby phone note dated 16 February 2016 records that Mr F had called in and, 
following a discussion, hed asked Westerby to send him a redemption form. And a letter 
from Westerby of the same date to Mr F notes that Westerbys enclosing a redemption form 
for Mr F to complete and return.
A Westerby phone note dated 9 May 2016 records that Mr F had called in to ask why the 
redemption funds hadnt been received. Mr F explained that hed sent the form back via his 
accountant and Westerby explained that it had no record of receiving the form back from Mr 
F. It was agreed that Westerby would send Mr F another redemption form. And a letter from 
Westerby of the same date to Mr F records that this then happened.
A Westerby phone note dated 28 October 2016 records that Mr F had called and thered 
been a further discussion between Mr F and Westerby about his SIPP and the 
investments within it. Following which Westerby sent Mr F another redemption form.
On 10 November 2016 Westerby wrote to Asset House Limited enclosing a completed 
redemption form for Mr F. Weve been provided with the ePortfolio Solutions redemption 
form Mr F completed, hed signed this on 7 November 2016. In the form Mr F has 
selected 100% withdrawal and hes written Please redeem all liquid funds 
immediately, and all illiquid funds as and when it is possible to do so.
In response to the redemption, it was explained to Westerby on 7 December 2016 that 
the Managed Portfolio is currently suspended for all redemptions. The 
holdings in the TCA Global Credit Master fund (although not suspended) are 
insufficient to be able to offer all investors a pro-rata share of the fund. As such 
no redemptions are possible. 
All redemption requests will remain suspended at least until trading is resumed 
for the Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income fund or the liquidation of the Kijani 
Resources fund is finalised.
Westerby wrote to Mr F on 15 February 2017 and explained that further to previous 
communications it had been advised that redemptions from the EPS Managed 
Portfolio L had been suspended. And that International Wealth had advised it that 
holdings in the underlying TCA Global Credit Master Fund werent suspended but were 
insufficient to be able to offer all investors a pro-rata share of the fund. And as such, 
no redemptions were currently possible. It was also explained that it was likely to be a 
number of years before liquidation of the Kijani Fund was completed and that it hadnt 
yet been provided with a timescale for when the SAMAIF would begin trading again.Ive seen an email on a separate complaint dated 15 April 2016 (the complaint that was 
the subject of published decision), in which Westerby emailed a consumer and explained 
that holdings in the Kijani and SAMAIF fund were illiquid and that:
Due to the liquidity issues with the funds within the portfolio, the Managed 
Portfolio was split into two - Managed Portfolio S representing the Suspended 
funds (mostly Kijani) and Managed Portfolio L representing the Liquid funds 
(initially approximately 20% TCA Global and 80% SAMAIF). ePortfolio Solutions 
have advised us that SAMAIF was initially included in the Liquid portfolio as it was 
expected to begin trading again imminently, however this has not yet happened.
Ive also seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains 
that the re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and 
suggests that work to begin trading is still ongoing. And in its 6 June 2016 submissions to 
us on a separate complaint featuring SAMAIF Westerby said:
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they 
are currently in communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to 
enable redemptions from the fund, however there are no definitive 
timescales as yet.
Westerbys previously sought to clarify that the quoted wording above, which is taken 
from a letter Westerby sent to us on 6 June 2016, was given by Abana.
After this complaint was set up, we wrote to Westerby to ask for its submissions on the 
complaint. Westerby wasnt clear about the content of Mr Fs complaint, so we asked Mr F 
to clarify what he was complaining about. And we forwarded Mr Fs response on to 
Westerby. Having considered Mr Fs comments, on 5 December 2017 Westerby issued its 
final response letter to Mr Fs complaint. In summary, it said:
Advice was given by Mr Fs advisor at Joseph Oliver. It was the advisors 
responsibility to ensure that funds selected were suitable for Mr F and Westerby 
didnt select funds or instruct trades.
Mr L later left Joseph Oliver and joined Abana and at that point there was an 
agreement between Joseph Oliver and Abana to transfer all of Mr Ls clients from 
Joseph Oliver to Abana.
Based on the information available to it Westerby had good reason to believe that 
Joseph Oliver maintained the necessary permissions to advise on pensions within 
the UK.
Westerby cannot know if a fund is suitable for a member; thats the responsibility of 
the advisor.
Westerby had provided Mr F with opportunities to redeem his funds in November 
2014 and December 2015.
Mr F asked us to review his complaint and, amongst other things, Westerby initially said 
to us that:
All advice was initially provided by Joseph Oliver and later by Abana.
It carried out due diligence on Joseph Oliver before accepting business that was 
introduced by it. It verified that Joseph Oliver was authorised to operate within the UK 
under an EEA passport.
The managing director of Joseph Oliver had confirmed to it that Joseph Oliver 
subscribed to the Financial Ombudsman Service scheme.
Joseph Oliver was authorised and regulated in Portugal by the Instituto de Seguros de Portugal (ISP).
It verified on the ISPs register that Joseph Oliver held passported authorisations into 
the UK for both life (insurance) and non-life activities. It also verified that Abana was 
authorised by the FCA.
While issued after the events complained about, it considers the due diligence it 
undertook on Mr Fs investment was in accordance with the standards detailed in the 
FCAs July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
It put in place a Terms of Business with Joseph Oliver which required Joseph Oliver 
to ensure that all necessary permissions were maintained.
Its also its standard procedure to check the Financial Services Register every time a 
scheme is established and every time advisor remuneration is paid.
At the time Mr Fs SIPP was established the Register didnt show what permissions 
were held, it just stated that the firm was EEA authorised and that the firm should be 
contacted to confirm its complaints and compensation arrangements.
The current Register does show that Joseph Olivers passport only covers insurance 
and reinsurance mediation but this version of the Register only came into effect in 
September 2015.
It was reasonable for Westerby to accept Joseph Olivers representation by the 
signed Terms of Business that it held the necessary permissions to carry on pension 
activities.
Mr Ls appointed representative agreement with Joseph Oliver included a clause 
prohibiting him from giving advice on pension products beyond his level of 
competency.
It was reasonable to conclude that Mr L was being permitted by Joseph Oliver to 
advise on pension products.
It acted in good faith in accepting Mr Fs introduction.
It would be appropriate for the complaint to be directed to Joseph Oliver.
Westerby didnt provide the advice to establish the SIPP or to invest in the underlying 
investments. The responsibility for determining the suitability of an investment rests 
with the member and their financial advisor.
Due both to its regulatory permissions and the terms of the SIPP Trust Deed it 
couldnt undertake any investment purchases or redemptions without Mr Fs authority 
to do so.
It understands that Mr L (then of Abana) advised Mr F that Westerbys 11 November 
2014 letter was scaremongering and its not responsible for Mr Ls actions.
Had Mr F instructed a redemption hed have been able to recover his entire pension 
fund.
It sent redemption forms to Mr F on 16 February 2016 and 9 May 2016 but these 
forms werent returned to it.
Mr F told it in May 2016 that hed returned the initial redemption form via his 
accountant but its not clear why hed have done this and its got no record of the 
redemption form being received.
Mr F requested a third redemption form on 28 October 2016, this was then signed by 
him and received by Westerby on 10 November 2016. Westerby countersigned the 
form and forwarded it on to Asset House Limited (the new managers of the ePortfolio 
Solutions platform). But it was confirmed in December 2016 that no redemptions 
were possible as the liquid funds had been exhausted.
If Mr F had returned the first redemption form in February 2016, he would almost 
certainly have recovered about half his fund.
Our investigators view 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. They said that the complaint should be 
upheld. They thought the fact Joseph Oliver was based abroad should have made it stand out when Westerby was carrying out its due diligence checks. They said the entry 
for Joseph Oliver on the FCAs register showed that Joseph Oliver undertook insurance 
mediation and that it didnt say that Joseph Oliver was authorised to give pensions 
advice. Our investigator referenced that personal pensions advice isnt an activity 
covered by the IMD and that Westerby, as a SIPP operator, ought to have had the 
knowledge and expertise to understand what permissions were required, and what 
services Joseph Oliver was allowed to provide.
Our investigator concluded that as Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Fs SIPP 
application from Joseph Oliver, it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate 
Mr F for his financial loss.
Mr F agreed with the investigators findings. Westerby didnt agree. In summary, its 
made a number of points including:
Westerby established an Intermediary Terms of Business with Joseph Oliver in 
September 2012.
Westerby was only the administrator of the SIPP and didnt advise Mr F on investing 
in it. Westerbys role only began when it received the application following the advice 
Mr F had already received from Joseph Oliver.
SIPPs allow members to choose the underlying investments. Westerby (as Trustee) 
is responsible for carrying out due diligence on proposed investments to ensure that 
they can be held within a SIPP, but it cannot assess the suitability of an investment 
for a given member.
The FCA carried out a review of Westerbys business in October 2014. The FCA 
commended Westerby on its high levels of due diligence.
The investigators view that Westerby didnt act with due care and diligence flowed 
from his view that it should have known Joseph Oliver wasnt authorised to advise on 
pensions. Westerby disagrees and says it did carry out proper due diligence.
This included a face to face meeting. During which Mr L (then of Joseph Oliver) 
demonstrated a good technical knowledge of pensions, Mr L also explained the 
compliance procedures of Joseph Oliver.
Westerby carried out the searches that the investigator thought should have been 
made before accepting Mr Fs SIPP application. It searched the FCA Register in 
September 2012, and established that Joseph Oliver was EEA authorised. It has a 
screenshot of the Register which doesnt include a Passports section or make any 
mention of restrictions on Joseph Olivers permissions. Acting reasonably, Westerby 
couldnt have found details of the passport permissions from the FCA Register at the 
time.
The FCA Register at the time didnt show any information in relation to Passporting-in 
and there was no independent reference point for this information.
Westerby had contacted the FCA about an unrelated matter and had been told that 
the FCA couldnt disclose anything that wasnt on the public Register.
It provided details of a report by the Complaints Commissioner, which it thought 
supported its view that information in the FCA Register was limited.
Knowing that Joseph Olivers country of origin was Portugal, Westerby also searched 
the website of the Portuguese regulator. Joseph Oliver was authorised and regulated 
in Portugal by the ISP and the register showed that Joseph Oliver was authorised to 
undertake both life and non-life business in the UK. There was nothing to put 
Westerby on notice that Joseph Oliver wasnt authorised to advise UK investors.
It was entirely reasonable for Westerby to rely on the entries in the FCA Register and 
the Portuguese Register.
Checks were also carried out on the Portuguese Company Portal to verify that the 
company was trading in its home state.Westerby carried out investigations which complied with the regulators good practice 
requirements. These didnt show that Joseph Oliver wasnt authorised to give advice 
on pensions in the UK. If they had, Westerby wouldnt have accepted the business. 
Its often declined to accept business from introducers where investigations have 
revealed they werent of an appropriate standard.
Having carried out proper due diligence in September 2012, Westerby then followed 
good practice in setting up a Terms of Business agreement with Joseph Oliver. In 
this agreement, Joseph Oliver warranted it was suitably authorised in relation to the 
sale of the SIPP.
There was no failure by Westerby to act with due care and diligence. Proper due 
diligence procedures didnt and couldnt have revealed Joseph Olivers absence of 
authority to advise on pensions at the relevant time. In the absence of sufficient 
information on the publicly available register, it required that Joseph Oliver provide a 
warranty (by way of the Intermediary Terms of Business) that it held (and would 
maintain) the necessary permissions.
It considers that it acted in good faith by accepting business that was introduced by 
Joseph Oliver.
Its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a firm on the basis of the 
EEA country in which its been established. Checks on UK-based introducers are 
carried out with reference to the Financial Services Register, and checks on EEA 
passported introducers should be carried out in the same way.
Westerby also provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FCA, including 
details of who it accepted business from. The FCA never expressed any concerns 
about it accepting business from Joseph Oliver.
The investigator has referred to the regulators Principles 2, 3 and 6 in reaching his 
conclusion. But he hasnt clarified which of the Principles Westerby has breached. 
Also, the Principles must be read in conjunction with COBS 11.2.19(2). This states 
that a firm satisfies its obligations to a client if it executes an order following specific 
instructions from a client.
In published decision DRN2550044, the Ombudsman's Decision was that the 
principal is responsible for the actions of its appointed representative.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic reviews cant be relied upon as guidance, as the FCA 
didnt follow the necessary processes to make them guidance.
Theres no specific mention in the 2009 or 2012 reports of overseas firms 
Passporting-in.
Its necessary to take into account the general principle that consumers should take 
responsibility for their decisions.
As the investigator acknowledged, Westerby didnt provide Mr F with any advice. 
When Mr F signed the SIPP application, he agreed that he was solely responsible for 
all investment decisions.
Section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) states that no person 
may carry on a regulated activity in the UK or purport to do so unless hes an 
authorised person. But even if a person acts in breach of permission, the transaction 
itself is proper and legal. This is emphasised in Section 20 of FSMA, which doesnt 
say that such a transaction is unenforceable.
Joseph Oliver didnt hold the necessary permissions but it was authorised under an 
EEA passport. And this means that is actions werent in breach of the general 
prohibition in Section 19 of the FSMA.
Once the SIPP had been established, if Westerby had failed to follow Mr Fs 
instructions it would have been liable for damages under section 150 of the FSMA. 
Also, under Westerbys trust deed it was required to act in accordance with Mr Fs 
instructions.
Mr Fs loss has been caused by the advice he received from Joseph Oliver.
Mr F can obtain proper compensation by making a complaint against Joseph Oliver or potentially Abana.
R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) V FOS [2008] EWCA Civ 642 is particularly 
relevant to this case.
Westerbys complied with the relevant law, regulations and rules.
The FCA investigated Abana and third-party compliance experts reviewed the advice 
given to clients. It was found the advice was unsuitable. Westerby had advised the 
FCA that a number of investors had been advised to transfer their funds and make 
the investments by Mr L, when he was employed by Joseph Oliver, but to the best of 
its knowledge the FCA hasnt instructed any review of this advice.
It cant understand why this service hasnt pursued Joseph Oliver in respect of the 
issues complained about.
Also, Mr F contributed to his own loss. Westerby wrote to him in November 2014 
when it became aware there were problems with some of the funds hed invested in. 
He could have chosen to switch into different funds if hed wanted to, but didnt do 
this.
Westerby was obliged to follow the instructions Mr F had given.
Westerby provided Mr F with a further opportunity to redeem funds when it wrote to 
him on 23 December 2015, but Mr F didnt contact Westerby to arrange a redemption 
until November 2016. By then no redemptions were possible.
While its not reasonable to expect Westerby to compensate Mr F at all, its even 
more unreasonable to compensate him for losses he could have avoided.
Mr F can obtain proper compensation by making a complaint against Joseph Oliver 
or potentially Abana.
Previous provisional decision by a different ombudsman on this complaint
One of our ombudsmen previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint in 
May 2019. The ombudsman thought the complaint should be upheld. In brief, his 
provisional findings were:
Joseph Oliver needed top-up permissions from the FCA in order to give advice on 
personal pensions in the UK.
Westerby ought to have carried out sufficient due diligence on Joseph Oliver before 
accepting business from it. This included checking initially, and on an ongoing basis, 
that introducers that were providing advice to clients had the appropriate permissions 
to be providing that advice.
When conducting its due diligence, Westerby ought to have concluded that Joseph 
Oliver required top-up permissions to give advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
And Westerby ought to have conducted sufficient due diligence checks on Joseph 
Oliver to verify its permissions and it didnt do this.
Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Fs application; it could have put a stop to 
things if it had acted fairly and reasonably by rejecting the application.
In the circumstances, it was fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr F for the loss 
hes suffered.
In the interests of clarity on this point. While an initial provisional decision was issued on 
this complaint a couple of years ago, this complaint didnt then proceed further while we 
focussed our work on another complaint (the other complaint was the subject of the 
published decision I mention in the next section). The ombudsman who issued the initial 
provisional decision on this case didnt have capacity to deal with the case  and, as 
such, this case was passed to me to review.
Previous final decision on a complaint against WesterbyWe issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a 
SIPP application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). That final 
decision has been published on our website under DRN7770418.
That decision relates to Abana and features the same key point  namely the 
permissions held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions 
in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this. Westerbys made the same, or very 
similar, submissions on that case and some of its recent submissions on this case are 
made with reference to the published decision.
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into 
consideration, as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant 
FCA DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which 
should be taken into account when assessing other similar complaints.
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review (amongst others) outstanding complaints 
involving Joseph Oliver  including Mr Fs  and if it wasnt prepared to change its 
position after taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to 
explain why that was the case. Westerby didnt change its position.
Other submissions from Westerby
Ive considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this 
complaint. This includes further submissions its made following on from the other 
ombudsmans previous provisional decision on this case and the published decision. 
Ive considered all these submissions carefully and, amongst other things, Westerbys 
said:
A number of points raised havent been addressed by this service.
The ombudsman has said that where theres a European entity that, of itself, is 
sufficient to raise suspicion and to treat it different from the home entity.
The published decision confirms we contacted the FCA about whether top-up 
permissions appear on the FCA Register and that the FCA confirmed that top up 
permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in 2013.
Theres been no disclosure of: the details of the contact at the FCA with whom this 
service communicated; records of such communications; file notes or attendance 
notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA contact was 
dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA contacts understanding of the 
Register in 2013 is based upon. This service should provide full disclosure of this 
information. Not to do so is procedurally unfair.
An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 isnt proof of what was 
actually on the Register at the relevant time. 
In the published decision, it was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the Terms 
of Business agreement that Abana had the necessary permissions. It doesnt accept 
that it ought to have been reasonably aware of cause to have questioned the 
accuracy of the statement in the agreement.
The published decision concedes that information which wasnt available on the 
Register wouldnt have been provided to Westerby by the FCA if it wasnt already on 
the Register. But the published decision also says that if Westerby had contacted the 
FCA directly the FCA would have been able to confirm Abanas permissions. No 
informations been provided about this and the FCAs position generally.
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. And, in response, the 
FCA confirmed that in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad permissions held under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance 
mediation or reinsurance mediation and that there was no requirement under the IMD 
to display more detailed activities. Any further information not displayed on the 
Register would have been considered confidential information under Section 348 of 
the FSMA which prohibits disclosure of this information.
In the published decision the ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was offering an 
advisory service. Its unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacts on the 
scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It was no part of Westerbys 
contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of third-party advisors.
In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides: Where a complainant makes a complaint against more than one 
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine 
that the respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that 
the Ombudsman considers appropriate.
The ombudsman failed to assess apportionment and causation.
Despite a related complaint about the actions of the introducer, in the published 
decision the ombudsman decided that Westerby should compensate the consumer 
for the full extent of his financial losses.
Complaints made against the introducer to this service ought to have been decided 
first, or at least at the same time as complaints against Westerby. This service 
dealing with the complaint against Westerby first has led to the failure to address the 
issue of apportionment.
This service has found against Abana in a number of complaints involving a different 
SIPP operator, and ordered Abana to pay redress yet we havent pursued, or invited 
the complainants to pursue, the SIPP operator.
Westerbys also made a number of other submissions to us previously, some in this 
complaint and others in separate complaints featuring the same key point  namely the 
permissions held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions 
in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this. These submissions include that:
GEN 4 Annex 1 states that an incoming (EEA) firm must make details of the extent of 
its permissions clear on request. This shows that the FCA directs that the firm should 
confirm its permissions. Its Terms of Business provided for such a request and 
effectively formalised this disclosure through a signed agreement.
The FSMA acknowledges that theres a general principle that consumers should take 
responsibility for their decisions, a principle which the FCA should have regard to 
when considering consumer protection. This service is part of the consumer 
protection provisions under the FSMA, it follows that we must similarly have regard to 
this principle. Theres a clear intention in law that consumers have a level of 
responsibility. And this service has issued other decisions which take account of a 
consumers failure to take action to mitigate their losses.
Its due diligence wasnt simply a check of the Register and it was thorough in its 
testing of processes and due diligence.
It established a legal document - the Terms of Business - in which the advisory firm 
warranted that it had the required permissions to introduce the SIPP. The advisory 
firm therefore effectively "defrauded" it.
Its able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. This isnt something 
its done, but its acceptable to the FCA.
It doesnt hold a copy of the "Permission" page for Joseph Oliver.
Its been able to retrieve archived copies of the page for other passported firms from 
the relevant time period. In every case the Permission page simply shows "No 
matches found".The "Basic Details" page of Joseph Oliver's Register entry included a field labelled 
"Undertakes Insurance Mediation", but the field was left blank; for UK firms it was 
always completed.
Westerbys argument isnt that there werent other sections of the Register, its that 
Joseph Olivers permissions couldnt be determined from the Register due to the 
limited information available. In other words, Westerby doesnt accept that, at the 
relevant time (when the online Register was viewed in 2013), that there was 
information regarding permissions available or accessible by an online user.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and I concluded Mr Fs complaint should 
be upheld. In brief, I concluded that:
Westerby ought to have identified that Joseph Oliver needed top-up permissions to 
advise on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the 
steps available to it to independently verify that Joseph Oliver had the required 
permissions.
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Joseph Oliver didnt 
have the permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal 
pensions in the UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Joseph Oliver had the 
required permissions.
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good 
industry practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Joseph Oliver.
Alternatively, if the advisor was JOML, it was engaged in regulated activities. And, if 
so, it was breaching the General Prohibition, which prohibits unauthorised 
businesses from carrying out regulated activities. This is a fundament of financial 
services regulation in the UK and, as such, I think it fair and reasonable for Westerby 
to have been aware of it. And, therefore, I think its fair and reasonable to say 
Westerby should have refused to accept either the SIPP or investment application 
from JOML.
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of the 
business. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Fs 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence 
to be carried out on Joseph Oliver to independently ensure it had the correct 
permissions to be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK.
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the 
points Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Fs 
application from Joseph Oliver.
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold Westerby 
accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory obligations and 
to treat Mr F fairly. And its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to 
compensate Mr F to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings.
Westerby didnt accept my provisional decision and provided a detailed response. 
Ive carefully considered that response in full. Amongst other things, Westerbys 
said that:
Its previously requested disclosure of: the details of the contact at the FCA with 
whom this service communicated; records of such communications; file notes or 
attendance notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA 
contact was dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA contacts 
understanding of the Register in 2013 is based upon. Its only been provided with the FCAs response thats referred to in the published decision and its not received the 
further disclosure its requested. It doesnt understand why I consider that it could or 
should provide more information to show what was on the Register in 2013. 
It took all reasonable steps available to it to verify Joseph Olivers permissions.
As we havent provided any evidence that the FCA Register displayed the firms 
(here Joseph Olivers) permissions having either erroneously or negligently been 
deleted, or not been placed on the Register in the first place, unless this is proven 
otherwise, this should form no part of our investigation.
It disagrees that Joseph Oliver not holding the relevant permissions would have been 
a matter of public record. The FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not 
what was missing from it. And the FCA cannot provide any more information than 
that which is provided on the Register.
Joseph Oliver had confirmed orally and in writing that it had the necessary 
permissions and it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on this.
It disagrees that the Written Agreement was generic in nature. Its drafted in line with 
the regulators due diligence expectations and is fit for the purpose intended. The 
document was worded specifically for Joseph Oliver.
It was enclosing the Terms and Conditions agreement from one of the industrys 
leading and largest SIPP operators, which mirrors Westerbys own wording with 
uncanny accuracy. 
It appears that JOML was a branch of an authorised firm (Westerby provided a 
link/screenshot for a page on Joseph Olivers website which it says is evidence of 
this). An identity verification document was signed by Mr L and quoted a FSA 
Reference Number. The reasonable conclusion was that Mr L was acting for an 
authorised firm when carrying out the regulated activity of arranging the SIPP. 
Advising on the underlying assets in a SIPP isnt a regulated activity, so its not 
accepted the reference to JOML was an anomalous feature of the investment.
It was no part of its contractual obligations to Mr F to investigate the permissions of 
third-party advisors and the anomalous features.
The provisional decision downplays the extent and thoroughness of the due diligence 
it performed. It met with Joseph Olivers representatives and obtained information 
from them. Joseph Olivers representatives had good technical knowledge and 
confirmed it had the correct permissions.
It was reasonable to rely on the information provided by Joseph Oliver in writing, 
together with Westerbys meetings with Joseph Oliver and the due diligence 
performed. 
Before accepting applications, it checked the FCA register and the permission page, 
the latter was blank.
It checked the Portuguese register, this explained that Joseph Oliver was authorised 
to advise on life and non-life, the latter Westerby understood meant investments 
and pensions.
Much later, independent consultants appointed by the FCA also spoke to the 
Portuguese Regulator and were told that Joseph Oliver was authorised to advise on 
pension products. If Westerby had contacted the Portuguese regulator, theres no 
reason to indicate it would have been told anything different.
An attempts been made in the provisional decision to distinguish Mr Fs complaint 
from the decision in Adams but Ive made a material error of law in doing so. 
In the provisional decision Ive sought to distinguish Mr Fs complaint from the 
situation in Adams on the basis that Joseph Oliver was offering an advisory service. 
Its unclear how Joseph Olivers contractually defined role impacts upon the scope of 
duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It was no part of Westerbys contractual 
obligations to Mr F to investigate the permissions of third-party advisors. And its 
wrong in principle to conclude that the contractual responsibilities of an unrelated 
third-party could somehow be used to define those owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R.
The Options appeal decision commented that s27 of the FSMA is designed to shift 
the risks of accepting business from unauthorised parties onto providers. However, 
s20 FSMA does the exact opposite  it explicitly shields authorised parties from the 
risks of accepting business from authorised parties acting outside their permissions 
(such as Joseph Oliver). And FCA guidance Id referred to in my provisional decision 
appears to directly contradict the intention of legislation.
There should be some, if not a full, apportionment of liability made against Joseph 
Oliver and/or Abana. And Ive failed to assess apportionment.
It would like an explanation as to why Joseph Oliver and/or Abana have escaped 
justice.
In a previous decision, a different ombudsman did deal with the apportionment issue 
where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions. 
The decision made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and the advisor on 
a 50/50 basis.
Abana has ceased to trade and any indemnity from Joseph Oliver and/or Abana 
and/or an assignment of any action against them from Mr F is effectively worthless.
Appropriate liability should be attributed to Joseph Oliver and/or Abana for its 
involvement in the losses that complainants have suffered.
If it had rejected Mr Fs application, Joseph Oliver would have re-applied on behalf of 
Mr F to another SIPP provider that Joseph Oliver was using and that SIPP provider 
would have accepted the application.
The action it took was in line with the FCA Principles and it was acting in the best 
interests of investors by keeping an eye on the investments and flagging issues with 
them. Its actions were correct and resulted in some clients being able to make a 
redemption.
Following its November 2014 letter, any investor would have sought independent 
financial advice or made some reasonable lines of enquiries. 
Even if its November 2014 letter hadnt referred to Abana, investors would have 
reverted back to Mr L. Mr Fs accountant introduced him to Mr L, so Mr F would have 
gone to Mr L (or one of his associates) on receipt of Westerbys letter regardless.
In a telephone call between it and Mr F in October 2016, Mr F indicated that he didnt 
know who Abana was, but he hadnt queried the reference to Abana on receipt of its 
November 2014 letter.
Westerbys contract with Mr F was execution-only, obliging it to follow his 
instructions. 
Mr F elected to retain funds that had been highlighted as being high-risk and under 
enforcement actions.
By concluding that it wasnt reasonable for Mr F to take some action after its letters, 
Im effectively deciding that Westerby was always liable for any subsequent losses 
irrespective of the duty on Mr F to mitigate his losses.
The provisional decision says that any efforts to redeem the investments wouldnt 
have been successful, but it disagrees. In the complaint that was the subject of the 
published decision, the consumer was able to redeem their funds in May 2016. And 
its likely that Mr F could have mitigated his losses with a timely redemption request.
If the complaint is upheld, given the need to retain an independent third party to 
assist with loss calculations, it requests a period of three months from the date of any 
award to arrange payment of any redress required.
Mr F didnt have any further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take 
account of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes 
of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the relevant time.
Mr Fs complained that Westerby allowed his SIPP to be invested in high risk 
investments. And that Westerby accepted pension business from a firm that only had 
permissions for insurance and reinsurance mediation.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an 
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether Westerby took 
reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr F fairly, in accordance with his best 
interests. And what I thinks fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue in 
Mr Fs complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to have accepted Mr Fs 
SIPP application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether Westerby carried out 
appropriate due diligence checks on Joseph Oliver before deciding to accept Mr Fs SIPP 
application from it.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their 
position and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered these submissions in their 
entirety. However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my final decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. To be clear, the purpose of this 
decision isnt to comment on every individual point or question the parties have made, 
rather its to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, including the submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, Im still of the view that the relevant considerations in this case are 
those that Id previously set out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into 
account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said 
about this point in my provisional decision.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The 
Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care 
to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly.Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They 
are but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken 
due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and 
that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman 
found Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and 
hadnt treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out 
above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim 
of the Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to 
attempt to formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to 
impose general duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which 
Ive described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the 
relevant time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account 
when deciding this complaint.On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of 
the High Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account 
of both these judgments when making this decision on Mr Fs case.
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his 
initial case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the 
Principles to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the 
judgments say anything about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration 
of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant 
consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken account of both judgments when making 
this decision on Mr Fs case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded 
that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he 
argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ 
Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests 
rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr 
Adams appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight 
had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new 
case.
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at 
paragraph 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby said that Id sought to distinguish Mr Fs 
complaint from the situation in Adams on the basis that Joseph Oliver was offering an 
advisory service. That its unclear how Joseph Olivers contractually defined role impacted 
upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. And that in attempting to 
distinguish Mr Fs complaint from the decision in Adams Id made a material error of law.
Ive carefully considered what Westerby has said about this, but Im still of the view that 
there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr 
Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the issues in Mr 
Fs complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to consider the question of 
due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its SIPP.I explained in my provisional decision that the facts of the case were also different. And that I 
had to construe the duties Westerby owed to Mr F under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific 
facts of Mr Fs case. And thats still my view.
In my provisional decision, I explained that in the published decision it was noted that in 
Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted that the transaction with Options SIPP 
proceeded on an execution only basis, i.e. without any advice from the business introducing 
the SIPP application. And that the transaction between Mr F and Westerby proceeded on the 
footing that Mr F was being advised by an authorised advisor. I made that point in the 
provisional decision, and Ive repeated it here, simply to highlight that there are factual 
differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Fs case.
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Fs case, including Westerbys role in the transaction.
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which 
include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and 
the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the 
formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that Westerby was under any obligation to advise 
Mr F on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application 
because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which didnt have the required 
permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same firm, isnt the 
same thing as advising Mr F on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP.
So, Im still satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to 
be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the 
factual context of Mr Fs case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA)) issued a number 
of publications which reminded SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how 
they might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide 
advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay 
due regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that 
a member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients.It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that 
SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could 
then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the members 
to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate 
risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, 
taken from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we 
have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs 
can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm 
to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give 
firms further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not 
new or amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that 
became a requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet 
Principle 6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under 
Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with 
reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective 
members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for un-authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they 
conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking 
and monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate 
for personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In 
doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, 
Ive considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, 
the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should 
be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, 
and Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in 
the BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter 
go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. 
And the judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman.
I also remain satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, 
thought the 2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant, and thought that it set out 
examples of good industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Joseph 
Oliver. So, it clearly thought it was good practice to do so, at the very least.
And I remain of the view stated in my provisional decisional that, like the ombudsman in 
the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the publications, (other than the 2009 and 2012 
Thematic Review Reports), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Fs 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as 
did the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 
2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended 
good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators 
comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice 
standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the 
standards themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the 
Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend 
on the circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys stated that the Options appeal 
decision commented that s27 of the FSMA is designed to shift the risks of accepting 
business from unauthorised parties onto providers. But s20 of the FSMA does the exact 
opposite  it explicitly shields authorised parties from the risks of accepting business 
from authorised parties acting outside their permissions (such as Joseph Oliver). And 
Westerbys highlighted that FCA guidance Id referred to in my provisional decision, and 
which Ive repeated above, appears to directly contradict the intention of legislation.
Ive carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of s20 and s27 of the 
FSMA. But, to be clear, with regards to the contents of s20, its not my role to determine 
whether an offence has occurred or if theres something that gives rise to a right to take 
legal action and Im not making a finding here on whether Mr Fs application is void or 
unenforceable. Rather, Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the 
Principles and the publications listed above are relevant considerations to that decision.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Fs SIPP 
application from Joseph Oliver, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations: to act 
with due skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im 
looking to the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what 
Westerby could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would 
include deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of 
business. The regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice 
observed by the FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included 
confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have 
the appropriate permissions to give the advice theyre providing.
So taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for 
Westerby to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it 
should have undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Joseph Oliver had the 
required permissions to give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal 
pensions in the UK before accepting Mr Fs business from it.Westerby says it carried out due diligence on Joseph Oliver before accepting business 
from it. And from what Ive seen I accept that it undertook some checks. However, the 
question I need to consider is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its 
regulatory obligations, identified that Joseph Oliver didnt in fact have the top-up 
permissions from the FCA it required to be giving advice on, and arranging, personal 
pensions in the UK. And whether Westerby should, therefore, not have accepted Mr Fs 
application from it.
It appears to be accepted that Mr L of Joseph Oliver was the advisor who advised on this 
business. But its not completely clear which business Westerby was accepting business 
from  Joseph Oliver or JOML. Mr Fs SIPP application simply says Joseph Oliver is the 
advising business  that could refer to Joseph Oliver or JOML  and the ePortfolio 
Solutions application says JOML is the advising business. 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby said JOML was a branch of an 
authorised firm and provided a link/screenshot for a page on Joseph Olivers website 
which it says is evidence of this. Its noted on the page that: 
Registered Addresses 
Joseph Oliver Marketing Ltd 
65 London Road, 
St Albans, 
Herts, 
AL1 1LJ, 
United Kingdom
Company number: 4844574 
Joseph Oliver Mediacao de Seguros Lda, 
Av Emidlo Navarro, no.81
2750-337 Cascais 
Portugal 
Company number: 509011411 
In my view this isnt sufficient evidence to show JOML is a branch of Joseph Oliver. The 
screenshot shows JOML as a registered address on Joseph Olivers website. But it also 
shows that JOML is a separate entity from Joseph Oliver, by referring to JOMLs UK 
Companies House company number  suggesting JOML might be a subsidiary of Joseph 
Oliver, but not a branch. 
So, Ive again considered both possibilities  by which I mean that the introducing advisor 
was Joseph Oliver or JOML  starting with Joseph Oliver.
If the advisor was Joseph Oliver? 
The regulatory position
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions 
in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that 
have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional 
decision.
Joseph Oliver is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by 
Autoridade de Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (ASF).Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and
reinsurance mediation are defined as:
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or 
carrying out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, 
or of concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and 
performance of such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or 
carrying out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, 
or of concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and 
performance of such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance 
Mediation Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7):
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection 
business from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised 
by us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time 
the application was made for Mr Fs SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for 
the purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2):
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to 
provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as 
insurers, unit trust managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers 
(including free- standing voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 
of the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under 
a personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It 
didnt have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and 
carrying out insurance.
At the time of Mr Fs application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of 
permissible activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms 
of the attendant Regulated Activities Order Article number:
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 
ActivitiesPart II RAO 
ActivitiesPart III RAO 
Investments
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53
and 64Articles 75, 89
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25,
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of 
a claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article 82 investments arent covered by the Insurance Mediation Directive.
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Fs application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are 
outside the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up 
permission under Part 4A of the Act (the Act being the FSMA). In other words, it needs 
top-up permissions from the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent 
covered by its IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top up permissions could be found at SUP 13A.7. 
SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at April 2013):
If a person established in the EEA:
(1) does not have an EEA right;
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 
13A.3.4 G to SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek 
Part 4A permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the 
appropriate UK regulator's website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-
authorisation/getting- authorised for the FCA and 
www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations
/newfirm/default.aspx for the PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is 
outside the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where the activity is 
included in the scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the 
EEA firm's Home State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for 
authorisation under Schedules 3, 4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other 
activities, the Part 4A permission is referred to in the Handbook as a top-up 
permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at April 
2013) as:(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 
of the Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive or the auction regulation.
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which Ive set out above) was 
readily available in April 2013 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only 
carry out specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport 
rights.
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FCA permission for Joseph Oliver to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting 
in accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, 
to ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Joseph Oliver, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should 
therefore have known  or have checked and discovered  that a business based in 
Portugal that was EEA- authorised needed to have top-up permissions to give advice 
and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up 
permissions had to be granted by the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, its fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Joseph Oliver required the relevant top-up 
permissions from the FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was 
undertaking.
Westerbys checks on Joseph Olivers permissions
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions 
in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that 
have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional 
decision.
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Joseph Oliver and it 
couldnt, and shouldnt, reasonably have concluded that Joseph Oliver didnt have the 
required top-up permissions. Ive carefully considered all of Westerbys submissions on 
this point.
The Register
Im satisfied that, in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Joseph Olivers permissions before accepting 
business from it. I think its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the 
Register entry for Joseph Oliver in the circumstances. And I think its fair and reasonable 
to say that the checks Westerby ought to have conducted on Joseph Olivers Register 
entry should have included a review of all the relevant information available.
Westerby says it checked Joseph Olivers entry on the Register. So, I think its clear that Westerby thought it should check the Register, rather than simply asking Joseph Oliver 
what permissions it had and then merely relying on what Joseph Oliver said.
Westerby says that, at the time of Mr Fs SIPP application, there wasnt information 
available or accessible on the FCA Register that would have shown Joseph Olivers 
permissions position. It says that screenshots show that the Register at that time didnt 
include a Passports section, or make any mention of any restrictions on Joseph Oliver's 
permissions. Westerby also believes that the FCA would have been unable to confirm 
Joseph Olivers permissions if asked, as this information wasnt available on the then 
Register.
Ive carefully considered everything Westerbys said about the format of the Register in 
or around April 2013, when Mr Fs application was submitted by Joseph Oliver.
In a letter dated 6 April 2018 Westerby said:
WTS [Westerby] searched Joseph Oliver on the Financial Services register in 
September 2012 and established that they were EEA authorised. Please refer to 
the enclosed copy screenshot of the search undertaken by WTS dated 18 
September 2012. This shows that the search results did not include a Passports 
section, or any mention in the notices or other information sections of any 
restrictions on Joseph Olivers permission, which would be usual if there had been 
any restriction. Whilst WTS accept that a present day search includes a 
Passports section, they dispute that a search in September 2012 did, as 
illustrated by the enclosed screenshot. As noted previously, the only field which 
could have indicated their permissions (Undertakes Insurance Mediation) was 
blank. Acting reasonably, WTS could not have found details of the passport 
permission from a search of the Financial Services register at that time.
The following print out from the Register was provided to us:
The third-party report on the Register, provided by Westerby during the investigation of the 
complaint which was the subject of the published decision, is helpful to discussions about 
the format of the Register at the time of Mr Fs SIPP application. The report included the 
following screenshot of the archived Register for Abana (dated 24 July 2013):
Each of the red titles at the top of the entry for Abana (Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, Disciplinary History and so on) is a hyperlink to another page of Abanas entry 
on the Register. So, this screenshot shows that Abanas 2013 entry on the Register would 
have included, amongst other things, both Permission and Passports pages. While this 
screenshot post-dates Mr Fs SIPP application by a few months, a similar format is also 
depicted in an earlier dated screenshot involving a different firm that Ive set out further 
below. And, on balance, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude from the 
screenshots that the format of the Register, around the time Mr Fs SIPP application was 
submitted to Westerby in 2013, included pages which provided information in relation to both 
a firms passport details and in relation to a firms permissions.
Elsewhere in the third-party report it says theres no evidence that in 2013 the 
Register contained any Permissions data relating to Abana that could have been 
searched by Westerby. The report refers to paragraph 24 as forming the basis for 
this conclusion.
Ive carefully reviewed the third-party report. Paragraph 24 only confirms that if the 
hyperlink to the Permission page is clicked, theres no archive of that specific 
Permission page. In my view, the fact this hyperlink yielded nothing when clicked just 
speaks to the limitations of the internet archive in question. So, I dont think paragraph 24 
shows that no Permission page for Abana existed in 2013.
However, I do think that evidence provided elsewhere in the third-party report 
strongly suggests a Permission page did exist for Joseph Oliver.
The third-party report provides examples of several Permission pages for other 
firms which were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Fs SIPP application 
or earlier. The below example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm 
which, like Joseph Oliver, was an incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and 
that it showed No matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register 
for EEA firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it 
recorded was that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA).
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK 
firm which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows No matches found), and 
a page for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant 
time, which shows the firms permissions set out in detail.
Im satisfied that all of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Fs 
application was received by Westerby, the format of the FCA Register contained a 
page labelled Permission where a firms permissions would be set out on the 
Register. And, where a firm didnt have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, 
the Permission page on their Register entry would simply state No matches found 
(as there were no permissions to display).
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top-up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has 
changed since 2013. In response, the FCA confirmed that top-up permissions do appear 
on the Register under the Permission page, and that it understands the same 
information was available on the Register in 2013. In other words, the FCAs response to 
our question accords with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by 
the evidence thats available in this case.
Westerbys said, amongst other things, more information should be provided about the 
details of the contact with the FCA. But, Westerbys already been provided with the FCAs 
response to our question. So, Im satisfied that Westerbys had the opportunity to consider 
the response, and that its also had the opportunity to make further submissions to us on 
this point. And Im satisfied that I can fairly determine this complaint now and that 
Westerby doesnt need to be provided with further information on this point.
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question 
accords with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence 
thats available in this case. So, my decision on this complaint would still be the same 
without the FCAs response to our question.
Accordingly, I remain satisfied that:
In order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have independently 
checked and verified Joseph Olivers permissions before accepting business from 
it. And its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the totality of 
Joseph Olivers Register entry in the circumstances.
The format of the Register in 2013 included a Permission page. And it follows 
that the entry for Joseph Oliver on the Register, at the time of Mr Fs application, 
would have included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have 
checked.
In previous submissions to us, Westerby seemed to suggest that the Basic details page 
was the totality of the Register entry available for Joseph Oliver at the relevant time. But, 
as I understand it, Westerby now seems to accept that the Register did include other 
sections. But says that, at the relevant time, these sections didnt contain any further 
information about Joseph Olivers passports or permissions.
Westerbys been unable to produce evidence to demonstrate that it did in fact check the 
Permission page for Joseph Oliver before it accepted Mr Fs SIPP application from it. 
But even if it did check the Permission page for Joseph Oliver at the relevant time, 
Westerby appears to have failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, I 
dont have a record of the Permission page for Joseph Oliver at the relevant time. So, 
weve no evidence of what specific information was available on the Permission page 
for Joseph Oliver at the relevant time.
However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, Im satisfied that there would have 
been a Permission page available on Joseph Olivers Register entry. And, if this page 
had erroneously failed to contain any information on whether or not Joseph Oliver held 
the relevant permissions, (for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been 
left blank), Westerby ought to have taken further steps to ascertain what the correct 
position was. So, I dont agree with Westerbys submission that information about a firms 
permissions wasnt available for an online user in 2013. And, in my view, the third-party 
report submitted by Westerby demonstrates the contrary to be the correct position.
Westerbys referred to a Complaints Commissioners report that highlights some issues 
with the Register. I appreciate that thereve been criticisms of the Register and that it 
may, on occasion, have contained errors.
However, Im satisfied that a regulated market participant such as Westerby, acting in accordance with its regulatory obligations, ought to have understood that Joseph 
Oliver needed permission from the FCA to give advice on and make arrangements for 
personal pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting business from Joseph 
Oliver, Westerby needed to confirm that Joseph Oliver held the required permissions. 
And, for the reasons Ive detailed above, Im satisfied that Joseph Olivers entry on the 
Register at the relevant time would have included a Permission page. And, if this 
page hadnt set out any information (for example, if the Permission page had 
erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Fs application from Joseph Oliver before carrying out 
further enquiries to clarify the correct position on Joseph Olivers permissions.
Westerby says that the FCA wont confirm details about a firm that arent available on its 
public register, I accept that. However, and for all the reasons Ive given above, Im 
satisfied that top-up permissions are something that are recorded on the FCAs public 
register, and that this was also the case at the date Westerby accepted Mr Fs application 
from Joseph Oliver.
Westerby says that Joseph Oliver not holding the relevant permissions wouldnt have 
been a matter of public record. Further, that the FCA could only confirm what was on the 
Register, not what was missing from it and that the FCA would have been unable to 
provide any more information than that which was provided on the Register.
As Ive mentioned above, we dont have evidence of exactly what did appear on Joseph 
Olivers Permission page in 2013. However, this was information that ought to have 
been publicly available on the Register, so Im satisfied that whether Joseph Oliver had 
top-up permissions was a matter of public record. And, if the Permission page had 
erroneously been left blank, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that, if asked, the 
FCA would have been able to confirm the position that Joseph Oliver didnt have the 
required permissions.
So, Im still not persuaded by Westerbys submissions on this point; I think contacting the 
FCA was a sensible and proper route open to Westerby to verify Joseph Olivers 
permissions before accepting business from it. And if Westerby had contacted the FCA 
directly to confirm Joseph Olivers permissions because the Register didnt contain the 
relevant details, I dont think the restriction Westerbys referred to regarding what the FCA 
could confirm would have prevented Westerby getting the information it needed. Joseph 
Oliver didnt have any top-up permissions. That was a matter of public record. So, I think 
the FCA would have been able to confirm this to Westerby.
To be clear, even if there was an issue with Joseph Olivers Register entry, or if Im wrong 
in my finding that Joseph Olivers entry on the Register at the relevant time included a 
Permission page, (and the Basic details page was the totality of the Register entry for 
Joseph Oliver in 2013), I still dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that it was 
appropriate  or in accordance with its regulatory obligations  for Westerby to have 
proceeded with Mr Fs application from Joseph Oliver in those circumstances.
Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified Joseph Olivers permissions 
before accepting business from it. And if there was no information available or accessible 
on the Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of Joseph Oliver, 
then Westerby ought to have either found another way to verify Joseph Olivers 
permissions, or it ought to have declined to accept any applications from Joseph Oliver 
until it could verify the correct position on Joseph Olivers permissions.
And if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Joseph Olivers permissions  
a position that I think is very unlikely given the available evidence  I think its fair and reasonable to say that Westerby should have then concluded that it was unsafe to 
proceed with accepting business from Joseph Oliver in those circumstances. In my 
opinion, it wasnt reasonable, and it wasnt in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, 
for it to proceed with accepting business from Joseph Oliver if the position wasnt clear.
So, to summarise, I remain satisfied that:
It wasnt fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from 
Joseph Oliver if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions 
Joseph Oliver held.
In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to 
whether Joseph Oliver held any top-up permissions. And, as Im satisfied this 
would have been a matter of public record, I think the FCA would have been able 
to confirm whether Joseph Oliver held any permissions.
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Joseph Olivers permissions, 
Westerby should simply have declined to accept business from Joseph Oliver.
Could Westerby have relied on what Joseph Oliver told it?
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions 
in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that 
have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional 
decision.
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Joseph Oliver (the Agreement) and, 
in signing the Agreement, Joseph Oliver confirmed it held the permissions it required.
Westerbys also previously referred to the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1, and to 
Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely 
on factual information provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due 
diligence process (TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA 
firms are required to make.
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others:
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook 
that requires it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable 
for it to rely on information provided to it in writing by another person.
And COBS 2.4.8 G says:
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm 
to rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised 
person or a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware 
of any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that 
information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it 
in writing by Joseph Oliver, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have 
been aware of any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy 
of the information.Westerbys mentioned a meeting it had with Mr L of Joseph Oliver. But weve seen no 
written record of that meeting. And, in my opinion, if such a meeting was the way 
Westerby was intending to evidence Joseph Olivers permissions, in order to comply with 
its regulatory obligations, in particular Principle 2, (to conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence), and Principle 3, (to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively), Westerby should have had processes in place to 
ensure that it was able to evidence the due diligence it had carried out on Joseph Oliver, 
including the steps taken to confirm Joseph Olivers permissions.
Further, based on the evidence Ive seen to date, I dont think the meeting Westerby 
had with Mr L amounts to Joseph Oliver providing something in writing on which it 
may have been reasonable for Westerby to rely. The corollary of this is that I dont 
therefore think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the meeting.
Westerby says that in the Written Agreement that was entered into, Joseph Oliver 
warranted that it had the required permissions to introduce SIPPs business.
Ive noted what Westerbys said in response to my provisional decision about the Written 
Agreement. And Ive reviewed the contents of the Terms of Business Agreement of a 
different SIPP that Westerby has provided to us.
Having carefully considered everything, I remain of the view that the Agreement appears 
to be a generic document and not specific to Joseph Oliver. It doesnt refer to, nor 
require either party to confirm or warrant the accuracy of information supplied during a 
prior due diligence process.
The Agreement provides as follows:
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial 
Services Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying 
investments where appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, 
permissions, authorities, licences and skills necessary for it to carry out its 
activities under this contract and will in all aspects comply with all Applicable 
Laws.
I remain of the view this doesnt amount to a clear statement that Joseph Oliver had the 
required top- up permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK 
that Westerby would be entitled to rely on.
In addition, the activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes isnt 
mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which I still 
think is an ambiguous term. And, the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is 
generic and doesnt refer specifically to top-up permissions being required and Joseph 
Oliver warranting that it has top-up permissions to conduct personal pensions business 
in the UK.
After carefully reconsidering the terms of the Agreement, and all the submissions 
Westerbys made in relation to what it says Joseph Oliver told it about the permissions 
held, Im not satisfied on the evidence provided that Westerby did establish what top-
up permissions Joseph Oliver required to be arranging and giving advice on personal 
pensions in the UK and that it requested, and received, confirmation from Joseph Oliver 
that it held those permissions. Im also not satisfied, for the reasons given above, that 
Westerby met its regulatory obligations in seeking to rely on the terms of the Agreement 
to conclude that Joseph Oliver warranted it had the required top-up permissions.In any event, its my view that Westerby should have done more to independently verify 
that Joseph Oliver had the required top-up permissions. If Westerby had carried out 
independent checks on Joseph Olivers permissions as required by its regulatory 
obligations, it ought to have been privy to information which didnt reconcile with what 
Joseph Oliver had told it about its permissions. So, in failing to take this step, I think its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerby didnt do enough in order to establish 
whether or not Joseph Oliver did have the permissions it required.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to either the 
meeting Westerby had with Mr L of Joseph Oliver or the Agreement the parties entered 
into. However, Ive also given careful thought to whether it was reasonable for Westerby 
to rely on these things generally. Westerbys referred, in previous submissions, to the 
FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook, and Ive 
considered this question with those details in mind. However, Im not satisfied there was 
any other basis on which it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on the meeting and 
Agreement, and for much the same reasons as Ive given above in relation to COBS 
2.4.6R (2).
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and 
controls which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to 
confirm a firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately 
safeguarded their clients interests. And I dont think simply asking the firm if it had the 
permissions or requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to 
meet this standard of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared 
at the time. Its told us it checked the Register at the point that it received Mr F's SIPP 
application. Its also told us its procedure was to check the Register every time a SIPP 
application is received from an introducer, and every time advisor fees are paid from the 
SIPP. It says that, in its view, this demonstrates good practice, as per the FSAs 2009 
Thematic Review Report. And thats a view I share.
So Westerby shouldnt have  and didnt  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as 
mentioned above, for all the reasons Ive given, I think Westerbys check of the Register 
ought to have led to the conclusion that Joseph Oliver didnt have the required top-up 
permissions (i.e. if the information on Joseph Olivers Permission page had been 
correctly recorded), or in the alternative, that the Register didnt record the information on 
Joseph Olivers Permission page in order for Westerby to confirm the position one way 
or the other (for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank).
This means that either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which didnt 
reconcile with what Joseph Oliver had confirmed to it about its permissions by way of the 
Agreement or otherwise, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake 
further enquiries to independently check Joseph Olivers permissions, and by failing to do 
so, it didnt meet the requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.
If the advisor was instead JOML?
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that 
have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional 
decision.
Its not completely clear which business Westerby was accepting business from  Joseph 
Oliver or JOML. Mr Fs SIPP application simply says Joseph Oliver is the advising 
business  that could refer to Joseph Oliver or JOML  and the ePortfolio Solutions 
application says JOML is the advising business. Westerby appears to have accepted the 
business on the basis that it was dealing with Mr L acting for Joseph Oliver and the 
evidence points to this being the correct position. However, for completeness, here Ive 
also addressed the possibility of JOMLs involvement.
I remain satisfied that if the advisor was JOML, it was engaged in regulated activities. 
And, if so, it was breaching the General Prohibition, which prohibits unauthorised 
businesses from carrying out regulated activities. This is a fundament of financial 
services regulation in the UK and, as such, I think it fair and reasonable for Westerby to 
have been aware of it. And, therefore, I think its fair and reasonable to say Westerby 
should have refused to accept either the SIPP or investment application from JOML.
However, Ive only briefly covered this point as theres evidence to show Mr L was 
representing Joseph Oliver at the time and Westerbys previously told us that the provider 
of the ePortfolio Solutions platform confirmed its relationship was with Joseph Oliver, not 
JOML. And I think the most likely outcome if Westerby had assumed the application(s) 
were advised on by JOML and rejected it/them on that basis, or else if it had queried the 
application(s) on the basis it/they had to be advised on by an authorised business, would 
have been that the application(s) was/were then submitted through Joseph Oliver.
I also think the involvement of JOML should reasonably have been viewed as an 
anomalous feature. 
Anomalous features
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions 
in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that 
have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional 
decision.
In my view, Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mr F was 
taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer 
the monies from conventional pension schemes into a SIPP, and then to send the majority of 
the money transferred into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius (with one later 
moving to the Cayman Islands). The investments involved were unusual, and specialised. 
And the chances of them being suitable investments for a significant portion of a retail 
investors pension were very small. So, given the relevant factors, Westerby ought to have 
viewed the application from Mr F as carrying a significant risk of consumer detriment. And it 
should have been aware that the role of the advisor was likely to be a very important one in 
the circumstances  emphasising the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on 
Joseph Oliver to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving advice on 
personal pensions in the UK.
I dont expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for 
Mr F  and I accept it couldnt do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by the 
Principles (and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have 
taken particular care in its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr F fairly and act in his 
best interests.
Further, as noted above, I also think the involvement of JOML should reasonably have been 
viewed as an anomalous feature. The ePortfolio Solutions application refers to an 
unauthorised business, JOML, as the advising business. I note Westerby expressed the 
view in its response to my provisional decision that JOML was a branch of Joseph Oliver but, 
as mentioned, Im not satisfied that was the case.
In any event, regardless of the points Ive made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, Im of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Joseph 
Olivers permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above 
points only to highlight the importance of carrying out this check.
Further points
Westerbys said its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a firm on the 
basis of the EEA country in which its been established. However, in my view, carrying 
out adequate checks on Joseph Olivers permissions doesnt equate to treating Joseph 
Oliver differently by virtue of its location. Westerby should have carried out these checks 
on any firm introducing advised business to it.
Westerbys said it provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FCA, and that the 
FCA never expressed any concerns about it accepting business from Joseph Oliver. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that at the time Westerby accepted Mr Fs application from 
Joseph Oliver, a factor in its decision to do so was that it had been reporting the previous 
business it had been doing with Joseph Oliver to the FCA, and that the FCA hadnt raised 
any concerns with it about this business. In any event, Im of the view that this is 
irrelevant, because if Westerby had acted in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it 
wouldnt have accepted business from Joseph Oliver at all and Joseph Oliver would 
therefore not have featured in its reporting to the FCA.
Westerbys said that its able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. But 
there seems to be no basis on which Mr Fs application could, or would, have proceeded on 
the understanding Joseph Oliver was an unregulated introducer. Westerby seems to have 
understood from the outset that Joseph Oliver wasnt simply an introducer of investments to 
its customers. It was carrying on the regulated activities of advising and arranging. It seems 
that in any event, Westerby had a policy not to accept introductions from unregulated 
businesses. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to make any 
findings based on the fact that Westerby was able to accept introductions from unregulated 
businesses, as that was not the circumstances involved in this case.
I appreciate that theres an argument that if it had been identified that Joseph Oliver didnt 
have the required top-up permissions, Joseph Oliver might have applied for, and been 
granted, the relevant top-up permissions. However, I find no merit in this line of 
argument. Im required to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case. And in this case, Westerby accepted business from a firm which didnt have the 
required permissions to be carrying on the business that it did. And, Westerby failed to 
identify this fact prior to accepting Mr Fs application. So, this is what I need to consider 
here  not a possible situation that could have happened.
Westerbys submitted that where complaints have been received by this service against 
both Joseph Oliver and Westerby, that we should decide the complaint against Joseph 
Oliver before, or at the same time as, the complaint against Westerby. Later in this decision, Ive addressed the question of whether its fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr F 
compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. But, I think its worth mentioning that 
Mr F didnt pursue a complaint about Joseph Oliver with us. Mr F only has a complaint 
with us about Westerby and thats the only complaint from Mr F Im reviewing. 
In conclusion
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence in this case, including the submissions 
in response to my provisional decision, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as I reached 
in my provisional decision. For completeness, Ive repeated this conclusion below.
Westerby ought to have identified that Joseph Oliver needed top-up permissions to 
advise on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the 
steps available to it to independently verify that Joseph Oliver had the required 
permissions.
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Joseph Oliver didnt have 
the permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions 
in the UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Joseph Oliver had the required 
permissions.
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good 
industry practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Joseph Oliver.
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business 
Ive outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of 
Mr Fs application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due 
diligence to be carried out on Joseph Oliver to independently ensure it had the correct 
permissions to be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK.
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Fs application from 
Joseph Oliver.
Im therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that 
Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Fs SIPP application from Joseph Oliver.
Due diligence on the underlying investments
In light of my conclusions about Westerbys regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient 
due diligence on Joseph Oliver, and given my finding that in the circumstances of this 
complaint Westerby failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered 
Westerbys obligations under the Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due 
diligence on the underlying investments. Its my view that had Westerby complied with its 
obligations under the Principles to carry out sufficient due diligence checks on Joseph 
Oliver, then this arrangement wouldnt have come about in the first place.
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr F compensation in the circumstances?
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application?
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions 
in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that 
have been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
I think its most likely that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Fs application from 
Joseph Oliver and Mr F had received an explanation as to why his application hadnt 
been accepted (as Joseph Oliver didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it 
needed to provide such advice, or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been able to 
independently verify that Joseph Oliver had the necessary top-up permissions to 
provide such advice), Mr F wouldnt have continued to accept or act on pensions advice 
provided by Joseph Oliver. And I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that 
did have the necessary permissions would have resulted in Mr F taking the same course 
of action. I think its reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary 
permissions would have given suitable advice.
I appreciate that Westerby might say that its contract was with Joseph Oliver not Mr F 
and that if Mr Fs application was refused it wouldnt have been at liberty to, or had 
reason to, contact Mr F.
But Mr F went through a process with Joseph Oliver that culminated in him completing 
paperwork to set up a new Westerby SIPP and with the expectancy that monies from 
existing pension plans would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone 
to the time and effort of doing this, I think its most likely that if the Westerby SIPP wasnt 
then established, and if his pension monies werent then transferred to Westerby, that Mr 
F would have wanted to find out why from Joseph Oliver and Westerby.
And I wouldnt think it fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt compensate 
Mr F for his loss on the basis of any speculation that Joseph Oliver and/or Westerby 
wouldnt have confirmed to Mr F the reason why the transfer hadnt proceeded if asked 
by him.
So, I think its fair to conclude that one or more of the parties involved would have explained 
to Mr F that his application hadnt been accepted as Joseph Oliver didnt have the necessary 
top-up permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively as Westerby hadnt 
been able to independently verify that Joseph Oliver had the necessary top-up permissions 
to provide the advice. And that Mr F wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on 
pensions advice provided by Joseph Oliver. 
Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the necessary 
permissions would have resulted in Mr F taking the same course of action. I think its 
reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary permissions would have given 
suitable advice. And if Mr F had sought advice from a different advisor, who was qualified to 
give pension switching advice, I think its more likely than not that the advice would have 
been to retain his existing pension plans. Alternatively, Mr F might have simply decided not 
to seek pensions advice elsewhere from a different advisor and still then retained his existing 
pension plans.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with 
the transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment 
but nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash 
incentive.
But, in this case, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr F proceeded in the knowledge that 
the investments he was making were high risk and speculative, and that he was 
determined to move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by Joseph Oliver.
It appears Mr F understood that his pension monies were being moved into a low risk 
pension arrangement. Mr Fs said he was told it would be better to bring his pensions 
together and that the investments discussed were low risk funds.
Ive also not seen any evidence to show Mr F was paid a cash incentive. It therefore 
cannot be said he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. And, on balance, Im 
satisfied that Mr F, unlike Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transaction for reasons 
other than securing the best pension for himself. So, in my opinion, this case is very 
different from that of Mr Adams.
In response to my provisional decision, Westerbys contended that Mr F would likely have 
proceeded with the transfers and subsequent investments regardless of the actions it 
took. Its highlighted that other SIPP providers were accepting such investments at the 
time, and says the transactions would have been effected with another provider.
Westerby might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mr Fs 
application, had it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Westerby 
shouldnt compensate Mr F for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP 
operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to 
assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations 
and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr Fs application from 
Joseph Oliver.
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept
Mr Fs application from Joseph Oliver, that process would still have needed Mr F to be willing 
to continue to do business with Joseph Oliver after Westerby had rejected his application for 
another application to proceed. And, as Ive mentioned above, Im not satisfied that Mr F 
would have continued to accept or act on pensions advice from Joseph Oliver in such 
circumstances.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Fs application from Joseph Oliver, the transaction wouldnt still have 
gone ahead.
The involvement of Joseph Oliver
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions 
in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that 
have been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional 
decision.
Westerbys said that a complaint against Joseph Oliver, and/or Abana, ought to have been 
decided first or, at the very least, complaints against it and the introducer ought to have 
been decided together. Westerbys also said that weve upheld complaints against Abana 
where there was another SIPP operator involved and that weve not pursued or invited 
consumers to pursue complaints against that other SIPP operator. Ive carefully 
considered these points but, as I explain below, Im satisfied that its fair to require 
Westerby to compensate Mr F for the full measure of his loss.
In this decision Im considering Mr Fs complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Joseph Oliver gave unsuitable advice to Mr F to transfer the monies from Mr Fs 
existing schemes into a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations when considering whether to accept Mr Fs application for a 
SIPP.
Joseph Oliver had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond 
the scope of its permissions. Westerby wasnt required to ensure Joseph Oliver 
complied with that responsibility. But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory 
obligations under the Principles. And this included to check that firms introducing 
advised business to it had the regulatory permissions to be doing so. In my view, 
Westerbys failed to comply with these obligations in this case.
Im satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Joseph Oliver, and 
acted in accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently 
checking Joseph Olivers permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby wouldnt 
have done any SIPP business with Joseph Oliver in the first place.
Im also satisfied that if Mr F had been told that Joseph Oliver was acting outside its 
permissions in giving pensions advice, or alternatively that Westerby hadnt been able to 
independently verify that Joseph Oliver had the necessary top-up permissions to provide 
such advice, he wouldnt have continued to accept or act on advice from it. And, having 
taken into account all the circumstances of this case, its my view that its fair and reasonable 
to hold Westerby responsible for its failure to identify that Joseph Oliver didnt have the 
required top-up permissions to be giving advice and making arrangements on personal 
pensions in the UK.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R).
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr F fairly.
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr F 
compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. Ive considered 
whether theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr F for 
his loss, including if it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. And Im 
satisfied its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr F to 
the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings.
I accept that it may be the case that Joseph Oliver, in advising Mr F to enter into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Fs loss. However, its also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mr F wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss 
he suffered could have been avoided.
I explained in my provisional decision that Westerby could have the option to take an 
assignment of any rights of action Mr F has against Joseph Oliver before compensation is 
paid. And that the compensation could be made contingent upon Mr Fs acceptance of this 
term of settlement.
In response to this Westerbys said that any indemnity from Joseph Oliver and/or Abana 
and/or assignment of any action against them from Mr F is effectively worthless.
I accept that may be true. However, the key point here is that but for Westerbys failings, Mr F wouldnt have suffered the loss hes suffered. As a result, the trading/financial 
position of Joseph Oliver/Abana, and the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on 
an indemnity from Joseph Oliver/Abana and/or the fact that any assignment of any 
action against those firms from Mr F might be worthless, doesnt lead me to change my 
overall view on this point. And, as such, I remain of the opinion that its appropriate and 
fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr F to the full extent of the 
financial losses hes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding any failings by 
Joseph Oliver and/or Abana.
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys also highlighted that in a previous 
decision involving an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions, a different 
ombudsman made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and the advisor on a 
50/50 basis.
The circumstances and facts of the other complaint Westerbys mentioned appear to be 
very different to Mr Fs complaint. And it also looks like the SIPP provider in the other 
complaint had already compensated the consumer for half of their losses before the 
ombudsman was asked to decide the complaint against the EEA firm.
Importantly, we consider each complaint on its own merits, and the question I have to 
address in this case is whether, in all of the circumstances of this specific complaint, its 
fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr F to the full extent of the financial losses hes 
suffered due to its failings and, for the reasons Ive already given above, Im satisfied it 
is.
I want to make it clear that Ive carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. And Im of the view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
Westerby to compensate Mr F to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, 
Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby has to pay to Mr F.
Mr F taking responsibility for his own investment decisions
I note the point has been made by Westerby that consumers should take responsibility for 
their own investment decisions. Ive considered the actions of Mr F in relation to the 
mitigation of loss, in the section below. Beyond that, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to say Mr Fs actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of 
Westerbys failings.
Mr F took advice from a regulated advisor (albeit one acting outside the permissions it held  
a fact unknown to Mr F) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, 
Westerby. And Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
Westerby should compensate Mr F for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to 
say in the circumstances that Mr F should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed 
the investments to be made.
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.Westerby says it disagrees with the finding in my provisional decision that efforts to 
redeem the investments wouldnt have been successful. Westerby says that in the 
complaint that was the subject of the published decision, the consumer was able to 
redeem their funds in May 2016. And its likely that Mr F could have also mitigated his 
losses with a timely redemption request.
Ive carefully reconsidered this point but, as I explain below, I still dont think its fair for 
any reduction to be made to fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr F to 
mitigate his loss.
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys said, amongst other things, that it 
was acting in the best interests of investors by keeping an eye on the investments and 
flagging issues with them. Further, that following its November 2014 letter, any investor 
would have sought independent financial advice or made some reasonable lines of 
enquiries.
Westerby says it wrote to Mr F to highlight issues with the funds his SIPP invested in and to 
inform him of an opportunity to realise some of his investment value. It says Mr F had a 
responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard his funds and so should be responsible 
for the losses hes suffered.
Ive carefully considered this point but dont think its fair for any reduction to be made to fair 
compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr F to mitigate his loss.
I dont think it would be fair to say Mr F should have made a redemption request when 
Westerby wrote to him in November 2014. Regarding enquiries, the November 2014 letter 
required Mr F to seek advice, and urged him to contact his financial advisor, Abana. It seems 
Mr F did this, and was advised to keep the investments. Mr F wasnt alone in this, based on 
other cases weve seen, Abana generally seems to have advised its clients to retain the 
holdings in question. In these circumstances, Im of the view that its not fair to say Mr F 
ought to have acted differently.
Westerbys told us that its process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time it 
received an application to open a SIPP, and every time an advisors remuneration was to be 
paid. Westerby had received a number of introductions from Abana before November 2014. 
So, by the time Westerby wrote to Mr F in November 2014, it would have had many 
opportunities to discover that Abana didnt have the top-up permissions it needed to give 
advice or make arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. As such, its my view that for 
Westerby to have suggested that Mr F seek advice from Abana once problems with the 
funds hed invested in had come to light, is a further failing of Westerbys regulatory 
obligations and the requirement to treat Mr F fairly.
In its June 2015 letter to Mr F, Westerby had mentioned that Abana clients were being 
moved over to Abana (FS) Ltd  a UK based firm authorised by the FCA.
As I understand it, Westerby then explained to Mr F in July 2015 that clients were no longer 
being moved over to Abana (FS) Ltd. And said it understood the reason for this was that 
Abana didnt consider Abana (FS) Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice on Mr Fs 
SIPP. And it urged Mr F to have his SIPP reviewed by an IFA with the necessary 
permissions. I think that was a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances, which 
goes some way towards correcting Westerbys earlier failure to meet its regulatory 
obligations by referring Mr F back to Abana.
And Westerby wrote to Mr F on 28 July 2015, this letter explained that the vast bulk of the 
monies in Mr Fs SIPP were in suspended holdings, including Mr Fs investments in the Kijani Fund and SAMAIF.
Mr F doesnt appear to have taken much action following these letters. In the June 2015 
letter Mr F was told of an investigation into the Kijani Fund, but he was told at the same time 
that hed be getting his money back. And in the 28 July 2015 letter Mr F appears to have 
been told most of his SIPP monies were in suspended holdings. So, I dont think it fair to say 
Mr F could, or should, have done anything further at that time. Thats because I think 
following the June 2015 update it was reasonable for Mr F to think he didnt need to do 
anything and, based on what Ive seen of it, following the 28 July 2015 update I think it was 
reasonable for Mr F to conclude he couldnt do anything as the vast bulk of his monies were 
in suspended holdings.
Ive seen a letter dated 10 September 2015 on a separate complaint, in which Westerby 
wrote to a consumer and explained that trading in the ePortfolio Solutions platform had been 
suspended pending the completion of a buy-out. And Ive also noted that in the complaint 
that was the subject of the published decision Westerbys confirmed in a letter dated 21 
December 2015 that it summarised the situation with the Kijani fund to the complainant in 
that case, in October 2015, as suspended, in liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. 
Unclear as to what will come back.
So, in any eventuality, I also think theres insufficient evidence to show any redemption 
request made in relation to the Kijani fund after July 2015 would have been successful.
There was then the December 2015 letter in which it was explained that a suspension on the 
SAMAIF might lift, but I think its fair to consider that by that point there was a lot of 
uncertainty surrounding the status of the fund and it wasnt at all clear what level of loss Mr F 
might be crystallising if he were to sell his investment. So, even if the suspension was lifted 
as envisaged, I dont think its fair to say Mr F has contributed to his loss by not ordering its 
redemption.
In the December 2015 letter, Westerby referred to there being liquid funds of about £50,000 
available, but I dont think this was accurate as the majority of this was the SAMAIF holding 
which was suspended, and there was no independent verification of this value. And I see 
Westerby itself noted in its letter there was uncertainty around these funds. So, I dont think 
it fair to say there was (around) £50,000 available to Mr F at this time, or that he ought to 
have concluded that was the case.
And I also think the December 2015 letter is somewhat contradictory as it says the 
suspension of SAMAIF has been lifted but then says that the lift of the suspension is not yet 
active (i.e. its still suspended).
Ive noted that a redemption form was sent to Mr F in February 2016. Mr F suggested in a 
phone conversation with Westerby in May 2016 that the form had been returned via his 
accountant. But Westerby has no record of having received this form and further forms were 
sent to Mr F in May 2016 and October 2016. Westerby then received a form back from Mr F 
in November 2016 and sent it on to Asset House Limited. In response, Westerby was told in 
December 2016 that no redemptions were possible.
Its not clear what happened to the redemption form Mr F says was returned in February 
2016. But this is a secondary point in any event, because Ive not seen sufficient evidence to 
show a redemption request received by Westerby in February 2016 would have been 
successful.
Ive seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains that the 
re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and suggests that work to begin trading is still ongoing. And I note that in June 2016 Westerby stated in a 
letter it sent to us in another complaint that SAMAIF still wasnt trading yet.
Further, the redemption request Mr F submitted in November 2016 wasnt successful. And 
on 15 February 2017 Westerby told Mr F that it hadnt yet been provided with a timescale for 
when the SAMAIF would begin trading again.
All of which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended for quite some time after the 23 
December 2015 letter and its not clear if that suspension was ever lifted. This appears to be 
consistent with what was said in the published decision, in which it was stated that the 
amount paid to the SIPP in that case likely came from another investment rather than the 
Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period 
in that case.
So, theres insufficient evidence to show a redemption request submitted after July 2015 
would have been successful, even if Westerby had received Mr Fs redemption form in 
February 2016. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im 
not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby has to pay to Mr F.
fair compensation
Westerby says that responsibility for Mr Fs loss should lie with Joseph Oliver and/or Abana.
Its possible that Mr F may have a valid complaint against Joseph Oliver and/or Abana. As 
set out above, I accept that it may be the case that Joseph Oliver, in advising Mr F to enter 
into a SIPP, could be responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Fs loss. 
 
However, the complaint against Westerby is the complaint Im considering here. And for the 
reasons Ive set out earlier in this decision, I consider that Westerbys failed to comply with 
its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. Its therefore my view that its fair 
and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr F for the full measure of his losses  as 
Westerby could have put a stop to things if it had acted fairly and reasonably by rejecting 
Mr Fs application.
I therefore consider that in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to direct Westerby to 
compensate Mr F to the full extent of his losses. 
In addition to the financial loss that Mr F has suffered as a result of the problems with his 
pension, its clear that the loss of a significant portion of his pension provision has caused 
Mr F some distress and I think its fair that Westerby compensate Mr F for this as well.   
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr F to the position he would likely now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Joseph Oliver had the correct permissions to be providing 
advice on pensions in the UK and before accepting Mr Fs SIPP application from it.
Prior to transferring to Westerby, Mr F had a number of pension plans with a combined 
transfer value of around £90,000. As Ive already mentioned above  if Mr F had sought 
advice from a different advisor, who was qualified to give pension switching advice, I think 
its more likely than not that the advice would have been to retain his existing pension plans. 
I think its unlikely that another advisor, acting properly, would have advised Mr F to transfer 
away from his existing pension plans. Alternatively, Mr F might have simply decided not to 
seek pensions advice elsewhere from a different advisor and still then retained his existing pension plans.
In light of the above, Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr F would be in if he hadnt transferred away from his existing 
pension plans. In summary, Westerby should:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of 
Mr Fs previous pension plans, if theyd not been transferred to the 
SIPP.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Fs SIPP, as at the date of this decision, 
less any outstanding charges.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Fs share in any investments that 
cannot currently be redeemed.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP 
is increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This 
payment should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of 
charges. The payment should also take account of interest as set out 
below.
6) Pay Mr F £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems 
with his pension have caused him.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, it should have the option of payment of the redress 
being contingent upon Mr F assigning any claim he may have against Joseph Oliver to 
Westerby  but only in so far as Mr F is compensated here. The terms of the assignment 
should require Westerby to account to Mr F for any amount it subsequently recovers against 
Joseph Oliver that exceeds the loss paid to Mr F. Westerby would need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the assignment.
Ive explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation, set out in steps 1 - 6 above, in 
further detail below:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Fs 
previous pension plans, if theyd not been transferred to the SIPP.
Westerby should ask the operator(s) of Mr Fs previous pension plans to 
calculate the current notional value of Mr Fs plans, as at the date of this 
decision, had he not transferred into the SIPP. Westerby must also ask the 
same operator(s) to make a notional allowance in the calculations, so as to 
allow for any additional sums Mr F has contributed to, or withdrawn from, his 
Westerby SIPP since outset.
Any notional contributions or notional withdrawals to be allowed for in the 
calculations, should be deemed to have occurred on the date on which monies 
were actually credited to, or withdrawn from, the Westerby SIPP by Mr F.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from the operator(s) 
of Mr Fs previous pension plans, Westerby should instead calculate a notional 
valuation by ascertaining what the monies transferred away from those plans would now be worth, as at the date of this decision, had they achieved a return 
from the date of transfer equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index.
Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved over the period in question. And, again, there should 
be a notional allowance in this calculation for any additional sums Mr F 
has contributed to, or withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since outset.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Fs SIPP, as at the date of this decision, 
less any outstanding charges. 
This should be the current value as at the date of this decision.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
The total sum calculated in step 1) minus the sum arrived at in step 2), is the 
loss to Mr Fs pension provisions.
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Fs share in any investments that 
cannot currently be redeemed.
Im satisfied that Mr Fs Westerby SIPP only still exists because of the illiquid 
investments that are held within it. And that but for these investments Mr Fs 
monies would have been transferred away from Westerby. In order for the 
SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining 
investments need to be removed from the SIPP.
To do this Westerby should reach an amount its willing to accept as a 
commercial value for the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take 
ownership of the relevant investments.
If Westerbys unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, then the actual 
value of any investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the 
purposes of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being 
given a nil value for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Mr Fs 
SIPP in step 2).
If Westerby doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mr F to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may 
receive from these investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of 
any tax and charges on the amount Mr F may receive from the investments, and 
any eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP 
is increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This 
payment should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of 
charges. The payment should also take account of interest as set out 
below.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protections or allowances.If Westerbys unable to pay the compensation into Mr Fs SIPP, or if doing 
so would give rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Fs expected marginal 
rate of tax in retirement at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction should equal 20%. However, if Mr F 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
6)Pay Mr F £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems 
with his pension have caused him.
In addition to the financial loss that Mr F has suffered as a result of the 
problems with his pension, I think that the loss of a significant portion 
of his pension provision has caused Mr F distress. And I think that its 
fair for Westerby to compensate him for this as well.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr F to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, Westerby should pay an amount into 
Mr Fs SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP 
(based on the most recent years fees). Five years should allow enough time for the 
issues with the investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. 
As an alternative to this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be 
payable by Mr Fs SIPP.
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr F or into his 
SIPP within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of Mr Fs acceptance of my 
final decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the 
compensation isnt paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, its my decision that this complaint is upheld and Westerby 
Trustee Services Limited must calculate and pay compensation to Mr F as set out 
above.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£150,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest 
set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds£150,000, I recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited pay Mr F the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Westerby Trustee Services Limited accepts the 
recommendation to pay the full loss as calculated above, Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
should have the option of taking an assignment of Mr Fs rights in relation to any claim he 
may have against Joseph Oliver.
If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Westerby Trustee Services Limited does not accept the 
recommendation to pay the full amount, any assignment of Mr Fs rights should allow him to 
retain all rights to the difference between £150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
If Westerby Trustee Services Limited elects to take an assignment of rights before paying 
compensation, it must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr F for his consideration 
and agreement. Any expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment should be met by 
Westerby Trustee Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman