DRN-3847956
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money handled his 
request for money back in respect of accommodation he paid for using his Virgin money 
credit card. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr S booked accommodation at a hotel via a booking agent Ill call T for 
June 2020. The cost of the accommodation was £1,705 and Mr S paid a deposit of £250 
using his Virgin Money credit card. The balance of £1,455 was to be paid by 30 April 2020.
In early April 2020 Mr S contacted T. He said in view of the situation with the Covid-19 
pandemic it would be unfair to expect him to pay the balance at the end of April 2020 as the 
hotel he booked might not be open by the time of his stay and travel bans might still be in 
place. 
In response to Mr S, T said it could transfer (his) deposit to a booking for a new date and 
asked him to send new dates. It said all deposits were 100% non-refundable but it would 
be happy in the circumstances to move the stay to another date  subject to any increase in 
price. 
Mr S asked T if he could leave the deposit he had paid on account until 31 December 2021  
so he could make a new booking with it in the next year. T confirmed this was agreeable. 
Mr S emailed T shortly after and asked it to confirm the existing booking was cancelled and 
asked how he could use the £250 credit when he was in a position to book with it again. 
On 20 April 2020 T confirmed Mr Ss booking had been cancelled and told him he could use 
the credit by quoting his old booking reference number. 
In January 2021 T issued a credit voucher to Mr S for £250. 
In June 2021 Mr S was contacted by a new company explaining it had acquired Ts trading 
names as T had gone into administration. 
Unable now to use the credit note T issued him, Mr S asked Virgin Money to step in and help 
him get a refund of his £250.
In September 2021 Virgin Money raised a chargeback (a method of recovering funds from a 
supplier via the card scheme network). Virgin Money credited Mr Ss account with £250 
pending the outcome of its investigation. 
Virgin Money said the chargeback was defended by T on the basis Mr S cancelled his 
booking in circumstances where it was non-refundable, and any credit provided was done 
only as a gesture of goodwill. Virgin Money told Mr S it would re-debit the £250.
Mr S said he never cancelled his booking but rather was trying to come to an amicable 
solution with T when it became apparent it was not going to be able to provide its services to 
him.
Virgin Money said there were no grounds to take the chargeback any further as it still 
thought Mr S cancelled his booking and T had offered the credit voucher to Mr S as a 
gesture of goodwill rather than in lieu of a refund it was otherwise obliged to provide. Virgin 
Money also considered its liability to Mr S under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. But 
it didnt think T had breached its contract with him so it didnt consider he had a valid claim.
Dissatisfied, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr S brought 
about the cancellation of his booking in circumstances where he was not entitled to a refund 
of his deposit. So, he didnt think Virgin Money had treated Mr S unfairly be declining to meet 
his claim for a refund. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned, with lots of flights and holidays being cancelled.
In many instances in the early days of the pandemic, where the supplier hadnt refunded the 
cost of a service that didnt go ahead, the customer could look to their bank for a refund and 
commonly the banks refunded customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate. 
But the right to a refund when a trip hasnt happened as expected because of Covid-19 isnt 
automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and the legal 
position, which can be complicated. 
Here, I am looking at the actions of Virgin Money and whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it handled Mr Ss request for help in getting his money back. This will 
take into account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but 
there are also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its 
own obligations. 
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether its customer has a valid 
claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Chargeback 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment Mr S made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the 
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is good 
practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate 
for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the 
relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. 
There was a dispute code in the card scheme rules for where services were not provided and this appears to have been the one Virgin Money relied on when it raised the 
chargeback. Virgin Money said T defended the chargeback on the basis it was Mr S that 
cancelled the accommodation and not T. What T appears to have been saying therefore was 
that the services were still available at the point it considered Mr S to have cancelled them. 
Ive considered whether Virgin Money should have accepted this defence or continued to 
pursue the chargeback. 
Firstly, I note T was a booking agent and not directly responsible for the provision of the 
accommodation to Mr S. This was made clear in Ts terms of business. Mr Ss booking 
wasnt a package holiday either (which might usually make an agent liable to a consumer for 
the different travel services in the package).  Nevertheless, the card schemes guidance for 
Covid-19 related disputes sets out that a travel agent assumes responsibility for 
chargebacks if the service is not provided. So, Mr S could raise a chargeback for services 
not provided in respect of the payment he made to T. 
Looking at the evidence Ive been provided, I find Mr S did agree with T that it would cancel 
his booking for accommodation in June 2020 and hold the sum of his deposit on account for 
use on a future booking. I think the email communications between Mr S and T in April 2020 
made this clear. Mr S asked T if it could confirm the existing booking had been cancelled 
and T confirmed to him that it had done this. If that wasnt Mr Ss intention, I find it likely he 
would have questioned why T had said the booking for his accommodation was cancelled. 
But he didnt. 
Looking at the situation at Mr Ss destination, although the hotel may have been closed in 
April 2020, it wasnt yet clear this was still going to be the case in June 2020. For example, 
there doesnt appear to have been legislation in place requiring hotels to close that far 
ahead. So, at the point Mr S agreed with T that it would cancel his booking, Ive not seen 
enough to suggest the hotel was going to be closed when he was due to stay there. 
There were travel restrictions at Mr Ss destination at the time he cancelled. Again, it wasnt 
clear how far ahead these would extend. But in any event while these might have prevented 
Mr S from getting to the destination, they didnt prevent the hotel from providing its services 
to him. The card schemes guidance for Covid-19 related disputes explains that chargeback 
rights do not arise out of situations where government restrictions prevent a cardholder from 
accessing services but dont prevent the merchant from supplying them. 
On that basis, I dont find Mr S could successfully have argued that he hadnt received the 
service hed paid for. I think if Virgin Money had pursed the chargeback any further it was 
unlikely to have resulted in the return of the Mr Ss deposit.  It seems most likely T would 
successfully have argued that the services were still going to be available to Mr S at the 
point they were cancelled.
There was another dispute condition available in circumstances where a merchants 
cancellation policy had not been followed and a refund had not been provided when it should 
have been. However, looking at Ts terms, Mr S was not entitled to a refund of his deposit if 
he cancelled his booking. T did agree with Mr S that it would hold the sum of his deposit on 
account but that doesnt appear to have been in lieu of something Mr S was entitled to under 
the terms of the contract  like a refund in the event he cancelled for example. So, I dont 
think a chargeback raised under that dispute condition would ultimately have succeeded 
either. 
Looking at what happened in Mr Ss case, the terms and conditions of the booking and the 
relevant refund/cancellation policies and considering these carefully alongside the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules and guidance, I do not think a chargeback could have been successfully raised on Mr Ss behalf. So, I dont think Virgin Money was acting unfairly or 
unreasonably when it accepted Ts defence and ended its pursuit of the chargeback.
I know Mr S feels like he should have been able to recover his deposit as he thinks T kept it 
in circumstances where it said hed be able to use it on a new booking. But the 
circumstances of Mr Ss case had to fit within one of chargeback dispute conditions and it 
doesnt appear they did here. Chargebacks are not a determination of the parties legal 
position.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit agreement
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Those criteria include things like the transaction must relate to a single item to which the 
supplier has attached a cash price between £100 and £30,000 and the transaction must be 
financed by a debtor, creditor, supplier agreement. There is no suggestion any of those 
criteria werent met in this case and Ive not seen anything that makes me think this either.
Ive considered therefore whether it appears there was a breach of contract  Ive seen 
nothing that makes me think T made a misrepresentation before the contract was entered 
into and neither does that appear to have been Mr Ts claim.
Mr S entered into contracts with both T and the hotel  Ts terms explained Mr S was 
entering into a contract with the hotel for the provision of its services, but of course T was 
also providing a service in making that arrangement for him. 
However, Mr S only paid T using his Virgin Money credit card. So, under Section 75, which 
requires there to be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, Mr S could only hold Virgin Money 
liable for breaches of contract or misrepresentations by T in this case. 
Looking at Ts terms of business, they set out that for hotel only bookings, in the event of 
cancellation by the booking party, this would result in at least the loss of his/her deposit. So, 
the starting point here was that if Mr S cancelled, he was not entitled to the return of his 
deposit. For the reasons I explained above, I think Mr S did most likely cancel his booking 
with T.
T told Mr S that despite the above, it would hold the sum of Mr Ss deposit on account for 
him to use on a future booking. And then some months later, it provided a credit voucher for 
that sum. 
I dont think this could be described as a variation to the contract such that it created new 
terms to an existing booking (like it might have done if for example the parties agreed to 
simply change the date or the number of guests but the booking was still going ahead). 
Although T said it would relax the terms of the booking and allow Mr S to make changes to 
the date without the loss of his deposit, thats not what Mr S ended up agreeing with T. 
Rather, I think that the parties had agreed to bring the booking for the accommodation to an 
end and, as a gesture of goodwill, despite Mr S having no right to a refund, T would reduce 
the cost of a future booking by £250 on production of a code it gave Mr S to begin with, and 
then later a credit voucher. 
I keep in mind also that the credit did not arise out of a situation where T had breached the 
contract or out of one where it was contractually obliged to provide some other remedy in the circumstances. So, T didnt appear to be giving credit in lieu of an existing obligation it had to 
Mr S  which again leads me to conclude it did this as a gesture of goodwill. 
These things considered, when T went out of business and Mr S could no longer use the 
voucher, this doesnt appear to have been a breach of contract by T. 
I dont find therefore that Virgin Money treated Mr S unfairly when it declined to meet his 
claim under Section 75 as it doesnt appear that Mr S had a valid claim against it.
I do sympathise with Mr S as he appears to have lost his deposit in very unfortunate
circumstances that were not his fault. However, I could only reasonably require Virgin Money 
to pay him the sum of his deposit if I thought it treated him unfairly by ending its pursuit of 
the chargeback or by declining his Section 75 claim. And unfortunately for Mr S here, I dont 
find that was the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman