DRN-3495269
The complaint
Ms M complains about charges she was invoiced for after she returned her car at the end of 
a hire agreement provided by Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai Finance 
Contract Hire (Hyundai).
What happened
In June 2019 Ms M leased a new car using a hire agreement provided by Hyundai. 
In April 2021 the car was returned and inspected. Ms M was then sent an invoice for £235. 
This was for £60 due to the car being soiled and £175 for a scratch to the front left door.
Ms M was unhappy with this and complained to Hyundai. It issued its final response in June 
2021. This said, in summary, that the charges had been fairly applied and it wasnt upholding 
Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. She said a repair was 
attempted to the scratch after she returned the car but this was unsuccessful and needed to 
be redone before the car was sold. So, she said she didnt think she should pay for it. And 
she said the car had been valeted before she returned it and it was only dirty because it was 
handed to the dealer who left the car on the road before collection. 
Our investigator issued a view and didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, that the 
damage and condition of the car fell outside of fair wear and tear guidelines. So, he said 
Hyundai were entitled to charge Ms M.
Ms M remained unhappy. She reiterated that the scratch had to be repaired again after the 
first attempt so she shouldnt be charged. She again said the car had been valeted but then 
left on the road by the dealer. And she said Hyundai shouldnt lease a car to anyone with 
children if it expected it to be returned in the same condition it was supplied in. Ms M then 
later said she would reluctantly pay for the scratch.
Our investigator explained what Ms M had told him didnt change his opinion. So, the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ms M complains about charges applied at the end of a hire agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider 
Ms Ms complaint against Hyundai.
Im satisfied the terms and conditions Ms M agreed to make it clear she could be charged if 
the car wasnt in a suitable condition when it was returned.  So, what I need to consider here 
is whether or not Hyundai fairly applied the charges when Ms M handed the car back.
Ill consider what the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) says in its fair 
wear and tear guide. And Ill consider the Returns Conditions Schedule (RCS) that formed 
part of the agreement with Hyundai.
I appreciate Ms M did say she would pay for the scratch. But, I think its clear from the 
correspondence that this was reluctant and she didnt seem to agree with our investigator 
here. So, I still think its worth me commenting on this.
In relation to scratches, the BVRLA says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out
The RCS says:
Any scratch which penetrates the primer coat, dependent on its position on the body, is 
considered abnormal wear and tear. Any scratch in a prominent position should be touched-
in or resprayed to a colour match by the dealer
Looking at the photos from when the car was inspected, I can see a scratch to the door. Im 
satisfied this is well over 25mm. And Im satisfied its in a prominent position. I find this 
damage to be outside of fair wear and tear and tear. It follows that Im satisfied Hyundai 
could charge Ms M for this.
Ive thought about what Ms M said about the subsequent repairs here. But, Im satisfied 
Ms M handed the car back with the scratch. She isnt being charged for two repairs. So, 
whatever happened, I still think its reasonable to charge for the damage.
In relation to the charge for the car being dirty, the BVRLA says:
The vehicles exterior should be sufficiently clean to allow a detailed inspection
The interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns, scratches, 
tears, dents or staining
The RCS says:
Any stains that can be cleaned by valeting to the point of not being visible are considered 
normal, any that cannot be removed are abnormal
Looking at the photos from the inspection, I would describe the exterior of the car as being 
very dirty. And, I can see staining on the rear seats. So, Im satisfied this falls outside of the 
fair wear and tear guidance.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms M said here. I dont have the details of what happened 
with the collection of the car, so I dont know if it was agreed with Hyundai that the car could 
be left at the dealers before it was collected. But, even if I accept what Ms M says here and 
consider that the dealer and Hyundai are responsible for the exterior of the car being dirty, I 
would still say the charge was fairly applied. 
I say this as the interior is stained  this wouldnt have been affected by the car standing on 
the road. And, Ms M has only been charged once   she has not been charged separately 
for the interior and exterior.Ive also considered that Ms M says the car was valeted before it was returned. Im happy to 
take Ms Ms word for this. But, Im satisfied this didnt remove the staining. 
Considering all of this, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Hyundai to charge Ms M 
for the interior of the car being stained.
Ive also considered that Ms M thinks Hyundai shouldnt lease cars to people with children. 
But, I think this would be discriminatory and I dont think Hyundai did anything wrong here.
Id like to reassure Ms M that Ive carefully considered everything else shes said in relation 
to this complaint. But, this doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman