DRN-3838709
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc caused unacceptable delays in deciding whether to 
offer him a mortgage, then made him pay a large Early Repayment Charge (ERC) when he 
says he was forced to go to another lender. 
What happened
Mr C said hed been a mortgage customer of Santander for several years. In October 2020
he planned to move, and asked about porting his mortgage to a new property. But he was
then self-employed, and Santander said it could only take a mortgage application from him if
he had two years of self-employed accounts. Mr C said he didnt have that at the time, so he
applied for a mortgage elsewhere, but that purchase fell through.
Mr C sold his house in March 2021, and Santander charged an ERC when he redeemed his
mortgage. But by then he said he had the two years of accounts Santander needed, so
Santander said he could port his mortgage to the next house he bought, and it would refund
the ERC. Mr C also wanted to add his partner onto the mortgage.
Mr C and his partner had an offer accepted on a property later in March, and he went back
to Santander to get the mortgage application underway in late March. He said he received a
decision in principle quickly, but then the process became very slow, despite his efforts to
contact Santander and keep things moving.
Mr C said that some weeks down the line, on 23 April, Santander finally said to him that it
wouldnt go ahead with his application, because it now wanted three years of self-employed
accounts, not two. Mr C told us he was in short-term rented accommodation at this time, as
his previous purchase had fallen through. Hes explained the circumstances that make this
very difficult for his family.
Mr C said he spoke to his broker the next day, after Santander said he couldnt go ahead,
and his broker was able to reinstate the application from October 2020 with a different
lender. On 28 April, Santander told him it would consider his application after all, but this
would take a further three weeks.
Mr C said he complained about the service, and he says Santander offered £400
compensation for all the delays and time wasted. Mr C said because of the timescales and
not wanting to lose another purchase, as well as wanting to make sure his purchase
completed before the stamp duty holiday expired. he decided to go with the other mortgage
company who were very prompt at securing the offer. He didnt think that was a matter of
choice. So Mr C said he didnt think it was fair that he had been charged the full ERC in
these circumstances.
Santander accepted there were some avoidable delays in Mr Cs application, and it said its
agent hadnt been aware of the upcoming policy changes requiring longer self-employment
accounts. It said it had paid him £200 to say sorry.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Santander would have
to carry out a full mortgage application, because Mr C wanted to add his partner to the
mortgage. Although Santander said at first that it wouldnt be able to go ahead with Mr Cs
application because it now wanted three years worth of self-employment accounts, it then
changed its mind. Our investigator said that suggested Santander recognised it shouldnt
have initially refused to proceed with the mortgage application. Santander then booked the
first possible mortgage appointment for Mr C.
Our investigator said he understood why Mr C felt his application couldnt wait, but he said
that Santander reversed its decision after only four days. And it would still need to process
an application. But on 5 May 2021 Mr C decided to cancel the appointment with the
mortgage advisor. He had obtained a mortgage elsewhere. So our investigator thought it
was Mr Cs choice not to go ahead, in the knowledge he wouldnt get the ERC back.
Mr C and his partner replied, to say that they didnt think the compensation was fair, when
set against an ERC of around £4,000. They said Santander had changed its mind quickly
about declining their application, but they were told then (in late April) that it would still take
another two weeks, so they said they risked missing out on the stamp duty waiver, missing
this purchase, and further upheaval for their family.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said the two weeks timescale Santander
provided on 23 April 2021 was reasonable and was in line with what we would normally
expect in this type of situation. And Santander had shown it was seeking to prioritise Mr Cs
application. He said Mr C had enough time to complete before the stamp duty waiver
deadline. But he would consider any evidence Mr C could offer about the seller possibly
pulling out of the sale.
Mr C and his partner said they didnt have written evidence of that, because this was all
done on the phone. Mr C said the seller had accepted their offer on the basis that their
mortgage was in place, and they needed to complete urgently, because of the effect that the
temporary accommodation was having on them as a family. They provided evidence of this.
And they said the seller just wouldnt have waited for the extra time Santander needed to get
their mortgage in place.
Our investigator still didnt change his mind. He didnt think Santander did anything wrong or
caused any significant delays to the porting application. Because no agreement was
reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional 
decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by saying that I understand why, in the situation that Mr C has described 
(which I havent set out in detail here, but have considered in full) he and his partner 
decided to change to a different mortgage provider. Around a month had already passed 
from their offer on the property being accepted, and they didnt yet have a mortgage in 
place. So I can appreciate why they would prefer to change to a lender who had 
previously completed a mortgage offer, and was able to reinstate this.
Whilst there were delays from Santander, Im not persuaded that these delays alone 
meant that Mr C needed to move to another lender and pay the ERC. Ill explain why.
Mr C began his application with Santander in late March. He had apparently understood 
before this, that he would need to have two years evidence of self-employed income,  for his application to go ahead. Mr C went back to Santander, saying that he now had 
this. And on his mortgage discussion on 26 March, Santander asked for the relevant 
proof of income from Mr Cs accountant.
At the end of this call, the agent said that she couldnt book Mr Cs mortgage advisor 
appointment until she had the proof of income from Mr Cs accountant. She told Mr C 
that if she received the documentation promptly, she could reserve the appointment next 
week. But it looks, from the information that Santander has shared with us, as if Mr C 
didnt actually provide proof of the most recent years income until 16 April.
I havent seen anything to suggest to me that this is Santanders fault. This may just 
have been a result of the date when Mr Cs accounts are made up.
Santander has accepted that it caused some delays in Mr Cs application, and I can see 
that when it raised queries like Mr C only having one year of accounts, and the concerns 
about whether two years of accounts would now be sufficient, it did then take a couple 
of days to consider these issues internally and to revert to Mr C. I also note that Mr Cs 
application was unfortunately made around a week before Easter, and those bank 
holidays caused a further delay. But even given these delays, it does still seem as if Mr 
Cs application could have been completed in good time, if the documents that 
Santander had asked for were sent as promptly as Mr C had originally envisaged.
For that reason, although I understand why Mr C and his partner took their decision to 
pursue borrowing elsewhere, I dont think the total delay I can see here is all 
Santanders fault. Rather it looks as if the earlier part of the delay may have been 
caused by Mr C not having all of the relevant documentation at the time of his 
application, and not being able to send that to Santander until some time later. So I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to ask Santander to refund 
the ERC that Mr C had paid.
Mr C said that Santander had offered £400 in compensation. I can see it has paid him 
£200, but I cannot see a further offer to increase this to £400. However, I do think 
Santander accepted it made some mistakes, including its distressing decision to decline 
Mr Cs application because he had only two years of income history in his current role. 
Although that decision was reversed quite quickly, I think, in the context of Mr Cs 
particular family situation, the delays Santander caused and mistakes it made were 
always likely to have a greater impact. So I think that Santander should pay a total of 
£400 in compensation. That will mean Santander would pay a further £200 now, to 
make the total compensation up to that amount, if it hasnt paid that already.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Only Santander replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it would agree to the further payment Id suggested. Mr C didnt reply.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr C a total of £400 in compensation. 
Santander UK Plc can count towards that total any money it has already paid to Mr C for this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman