DRN-2767170
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly asked him to 
reimburse Calpes costs for defending a claim in court against Mr Ts motor insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.  
What happened
Mr T was in a minor traffic accident. He didn't claim from his own policy but the other driver 
(the third party) said Mr T was at fault for the accident and claimed from his policy for 
personal injury, vehicle damage and hire car costs. Mr T said the third party was at fault for 
the accident. Calpe instructed solicitors who defended the third partys claim. The court 
found in favour of Mr T and dismissed the claim. But Calpe said it had incurred costs of 
around £2,186 in defending it. And as this was below Mr Ts all sections excess, it asked 
him to pay that sum. Mr T didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extract 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts policy is whats known as an all sections excess policy. That means hes required to 
pay his excess even if he doesn't make a claim for damage to his own car. So, for any claim 
against his policy, including a claim from a third party, Mr T has to pay an excess of up to 
£3,000, regardless of whos at fault. Mr T doesnt think the policy is clear on that point but I 
think it is. Ive noted that his policy describes the excess as:
 the amount You must pay towards any claim including costs. You are responsible 
for the excess even if the incident is not your fault. The Excess applies to all Sections 
of this insurance...
The policy also says that The Excess applies to damage or injury claims by a third party. 
And theres a section in the policy which says that if the insured suffers damage to their car 
but chooses not to claim, they will still be liable for the excess in respect of any third party 
claim incurred by Calpe arising from the same event.
Further, in its final response to Mr Ts complaint Calpe also referred to a part of the policy 
which says its:
obliged to investigate and handle any claim on a Policy by a customer or a third 
party regardless of fault or liability. Such investigations may involve expenditure on 
various fees and services such as  external legal or other professional advice and 
field agents Such amounts are recorded as a claims payment and if applicable will 
form part of The Excess sought to be repaid to the Underwriters
So think the policy is clear that Mr T may have to pay his excess even if he doesn't make a 
claim himself or isn't at fault for the accident. But that doesn't automatically mean it was fair 
for Calpe to try to recover its costs from Mr T.
I've noted that in dismissing the third partys claim the court awarded costs in Mr Ts favour. 
So I can understand why he might be confused because Calpe has asked him to pay these 
costs rather than pursuing the third party for those. And while it might have a good reason 
for not doing so, I havent seen any evidence that Calpe has explained to Mr T why it hasn't 
pursued the other side for its costs, rather than trying to claim those from Mr T.
Further, there were around three years between the incident leading to the claim and the 
court deciding the matter in Mr Ts favour. And during that period Calpe was defending the 
claim. So it was aware of what costs it was incurring and what it might or might not have 
been able to recover from the third party. And, given the policy terms, it must have known 
that it was likely to ask Mr T to pay it some of these costs. But, I don't think it made this clear 
to Mr T. It did tell him that he might be liable for his excess. However, I think Mr T could have 
had a reasonable expectation that any excess would be something hed be able to recover 
from the third party. Thats because the costs of an excess, being an uninsured loss, is 
something thats usually included in any claim or counter-claim in these circumstances. But 
I've seen no evidence that Calpe told Mr T that even if he won the court case Calpe would 
still require him to pay his excess. And it's clear that Mr T wasn't otherwise aware of this.
So, at the very least, I would have expected Calpe to give Mr T clear advice that whatever 
the outcome of the court case it was likely to ask him to pay some of its costs up to his 
maximum excess. And, if it wasn't prepared to counter-claim for Mr Ts excess itself, then it 
should have made that clear and invited him to seek independent legal advice about how he 
could go about that. But Ive seen no evidence it did so. And instead, some three years after 
the incident, it asked Mr T to repay it a sum of £2,186 for an accident that wasn't his fault, 
following a court case he won, where the court ordered the other side to pay his costs, albeit, 
only with the courts permission. That seems grossly unfair.
Had Calpe given Mr T appropriate advice sooner then it's possible that he could have 
recovered any excess he had to pay from the third party. But, given that the court case has 
already concluded its unclear whether this option is still open to him. But even if it is, it 
would result in him being out of pocket in the meantime if he has to pay Calpe his excess 
and then try to recover it from the third party. And this is something he might have been able 
to avoid had Calpe given him the appropriate advice at an early stage.
And, in any event, our long-standing approach is that costs insurers incur while handling a 
claim, for things like investigation fees etc. are not something they should be passing on to 
their policyholders if they arent able to recover them from the other side. And I think the 
costs that Calpe is trying to recover from Mr T would fall into this category. It follows that I 
don't think its fair or reasonable for Calpe to try to recover those costs from Mr T.
I'm aware that Calpes unfair pursuit of these funds from Mr T has been a source of distress 
and inconvenience for him. As far as he knew he had won his case and had costs awarded 
in his favour. So I can understand his dismay when Calpe asked him to pay it such a large 
sum for an accident that wasn't his fault, without any explanation of why it hadn't sought to 
recover its costs from the third party who lost the court case. To address that, I think Calpe 
should pay him £350 compensation, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Neither Mr T nor Calpe commented on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr T nor Calpe objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change 
what I said in it.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe insurance Company 
Limited to stop pursuing Mr T for the excess payment in relation to the costs it incurred in 
defending this claim. It must also pay him £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it 
that Mr T has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also add interest to 
that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Calpe pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate