DRN-4194934
The complaint
Mr A complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday 
Loans) , lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr A took out a loan with Everyday Loans in June 2021. He borrowed £1,000 over 18 
months, repaying £120.12 a month, meaning hed repay £2162.16 over the whole loan.
Mr A says he couldnt afford the credit. He says he had lots of debt elsewhere and that if 
Everyday Loans had done proper checks it had would have known the credit was 
unaffordable for him. 
Everyday Loans says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr A and it didnt see 
anything which might make it think he couldnt afford the loan at the time. However, it did 
acknowledge that Mr A was unlikely to be able to sustainably make the repayments.
Everyday Loans offered to remove all the interest Mr A had paid on the loan and which he 
would have had to pay till the end of the loan. Everyday Loans said Mr A just had to pay 
back the actual capital he had borrowed. 
Mr A didnt think this was a fair resolution. He wanted Everyday Loans to write off the whole 
loan. So, he brought his complaint to this service. 
 
Our investigator reviewed Mr As complaint. He agreed that Everyday Loans shouldnt have 
provided the loan to Mr A but he didnt agree that Everyday Loans should do anything 
different in terms of the redress it offered.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr As complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr A could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, how much borrowing Mr A had elsewhere and Mr As 
income and expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Everyday Loans hasnt provided evidence in Mr As case, but this service is familiar with the 
way it conducts its checks. The loan was sold face to face and Everyday Loans would 
typically review an applicants bank statements. Mr A has provided copies of the bank 
statements he showed Everyday Lending, along with his credit report. 
On one of the accounts there was evidence of some gambling, although Mr A also withdrew 
more from his gambling account than he spent on it. Its not clear whether Everyday Loans 
had access to this information (that is, that Everyday Loans saw statements from both of Mr 
As bank accounts) but given Mr As income and essential expenditure I dont think Everyday 
Loans would have thought the level of gambling was concerning.
Our investigator noted that Mr A was using a significant amount of short term lending and 
that Mr As overdrafts were high. This should have concerned Everyday Lending at the time. 
I dont think if it had taken proper regard of Mr As existing borrowing that it would have 
thought he could repay any further borrowing in a sustainable way. Indeed, that is what 
Everyday Lending has since conceded in its original response to Mr As complaint. I agree 
with that position.
That leaves the matter of whether the redress offered to Mr A by Everyday Loans is fair. It is 
generally this services aim to put a consumer back in the position they would have been if 
the business hadnt erred, but this isnt always straightforward. In Mr As case he has had 
the benefit of the money that was lent.
Mr A makes the case that he was extremely vulnerable at the time of taking the loan and that 
it has caused him a lot of stress and anxiety. He has since entered a debt management plan 
(DMP) to address his financial difficulties. In August 2022 Mr A stopped work, he says 
because of health problems and the mental stress of his financial situation. This means he is 
reliant on Universal Credit which is significantly lower than his income was when he was 
employed.  
This loan is a relatively small part of Mr As outstanding debts, and he is managing to make 
the agreed payments each month which is shared between his creditors. I dont think the 
addition of this loan was the most significant cause of Mr As financial difficulties and the 
subsequent ill health that says he has experienced.  And I dont think that the lending was so 
clearly unsustainable that there was never a realistic prospect of Mr A paying back what he 
was lent. 
I understand Mr As income has reduced since he took out the loan which has restricted his 
ability to pay back his borrowing. However, his DMP means that I think he has a realistic 
prospect of repaying the outstanding amount without causing Mr A undue financial hardship. 
On balance, I dont think it would be reasonable or fair to Everyday Loans to expect Mr A not 
to pay the original loan.My final decision
Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, has already made an offer to Mr A 
which allows him only to pay back the original capital sum that he borrowed, without any 
interest and charges. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, should allow Mr A 
to settle the loan by only paying back the original capital sum (that is, without any interest or 
charges). At the time of Mr As original complaint, he had paid £517.89 which left £482.11 to 
repay. That will have reduced by now as Mr A has made subsequent payments through his 
debt management plan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman