DRN-4140749
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) have failed to refund 
over £1,900 she lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
But in summary; 
Ms R was approached by a fraudster that I will call B. They persuaded Ms R that they were 
experts in trading crypto. Ms R sent funds to two crypto exchanges that was forwarded onto 
B. These transactions totalled around £1,900. 
Ms R subsequently tried to withdraw the profits that she had made but was told that she 
was unable to do so unless she paid further fees. It was at this point that Ms R found out that 
she had been scammed.
Ms R complained to Halifax regarding this but they declined to refund the disputed 
transactions. One of our investigators looked into this matter and they did not think that that 
the payments made were out of character for Ms Rs account and therefore that Halifax did 
nothing wrong in not preventing the payments.
Ms R disagreed and therefore this complaint was referred to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Ms R authorised the disputed payments she made using her Halifax 
debit card (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from her 
crypto wallet). The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials 
provided by Halifax, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers, in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Ms R from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. However, having taken Ms Rs account activity I do not 
think the payments she is disputing should have been regarded as particularly unusual.
I appreciate that overall, Ms R has lost over £1,900 which is a significant amount of money. 
But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over several smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have appeared 
particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Ms Rs spending history with 
Halifax. I dont think that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that 
she might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
The payments were not of such a large amount (largest payment was £540) that they would 
represent a significant deviation from what would be considered as usual activity. Her 
Halifax account seemed to have been used to trade crypto and she had made larger 
payments to other exchanges in the past. 
So, having considered the payments Ms R made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered Halifaxs fraud monitoring systems, or that would have 
indicated she was in the process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to 
have been any obligation on Halifax to have intervened.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax did enough to attempt to recover the money Ms R 
lost, as there are some instances where debit card transactions can be refunded through 
making a chargeback claim. 
In this case, a chargeback would not have been successful, as the transactions Ms R used 
her debit card for was to pay crypto exchanges for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which 
she duly received. The money was subsequently lost from the crypto platform when she 
transferred the funds to the scammer. So, she could not claim that she did not receive the 
goods or services paid for from her Halifax account, which was the purchase of the 
cryptocurrency. As a result, I dont think Halifax have acted unreasonably by not pursuing a 
chargeback claim here.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms R, and Im sorry to hear she has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Halifax can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman