DRN-3542581
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold a timeshare product when he was on holiday in 
Florida.  Because he used his Halifax credit card, issued by Bank of Scotland plc, to pay part 
of the purchase price, he says that he has a claim against it in the same way as he has a 
claim against the seller. 
Mr M is represented by a claims management business, so when I refer to Mr Ds 
submissions, I include those made on his behalf.       
What happened
In July 2014 Mr D and his wife were in Florida. While they were there they entered into an 
agreement with SVO Vistana Village Inc., a Florida company, for the purchase of vacation 
ownership interests (VOIs), a form of timeshare. The purchase documents recorded that 
Mr and Mrs D were existing owners and that the purchase was an upgrade. 
The agreement also recorded that Mr and Mrs D were buying floating interests in four 
accommodation units for a total price of US$42,675. They were to pay a deposit of 
US$14,426.48, followed by 120 monthly payments of US$418.03. Mr Ds credit card 
statements indicate that he paid US$1,748 on 23 July 2014, and that he used the same card 
to make monthly payments thereafter. 
The agreement gave Mr and Mrs D ten days in which to cancel the contract. It also said that 
it was governed by Florida law. 
In March 2020 Mr D contacted Halifax to say he had a claim against it under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). He said that he had been unable to book 
accommodation and that the VOIs had been misrepresented to him. 
Mr Ds initial claim had been directed to the wrong part of the Lloyds Banking Group (of 
which Halifax is a part), but, when the correct area received it, Halifax declined the claim. It 
said that there was insufficient information or evidence to support it. It invited Mr D to provide 
further evidence to show what had happened. 
Mr D referred the matter to this service, where one of or investigators considered what had 
happened. She did not however recommend that the complaint be upheld. Like the Bank, 
she did not think there was sufficient evidence to support Mr Ds claims. Mr D did not accept 
the investigators opinion and asked that an ombudsman review the case. He said that, in 
addition to his complaint about the banks response to his section 75 claim, the 
circumstances of the sale were such that the credit card agreement created an unfair 
relationship. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 
Section 75(1) says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
Section 12(b) of the same Act says:
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement being 

(b) a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier 
And section 11 includes:
(1) A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement

(b) to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier ) other than the 
creditor 
The card payments in this case were made to the seller, SVO Vistana Village Inc. They 
were, therefore, made under pre-existing arrangements between that company and Halifax 
(albeit indirectly, through Mastercard). 
Section 75(3) includes financial limits on section 75 claims. It says that subsection (1) does 
not apply  so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached 
a cash price  [of] more than £30,000  The cash price in this case was US$42,675. At 
current exchange rates that is around £34,000, but at the rates prevailing in July 2014 it was 
rather less  around £26,000. 
I am satisfied that section 75 could apply and that I need to consider what Mr D has said 
about the sale and subsequent events.   
Misrepresentation
As a matter of English law, a misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or 
of fact, made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the 
other party into the contract. 
The sale contract included, at clause 18, a term which said it was subject to Florida law. I 
have seen no evidence to show whether local law recognises claims in misrepresentation in 
the same way that English law does, but I have considered this part of the complaint on the 
assumption that there are no material differences.
Mr D says that he been unable to book holiday accommodation, contrary to what he was told 
at the time of sale. He says that he therefore has a claim in misrepresentation against the 
seller. He has however provided no evidence in support of that allegation. He has not, for 
example, provided information or evidence about any use he has had of his VOIs or about 
any attempts (successful or unsuccessful) he has made to book accommodation. 
I note too that clause 10 of the sale contract was an entire agreement clause; if valid, the effect of that provision is that Mr D cannot rely on anything said to him about the contract 
unless it was included in the written agreement. 
Be that as it may, the evidence which Mr D has provided lacks any detail and is 
unsupported. In the circumstances, I think the banks response to this part of his claim was 
reasonable. 
Breach of contract  
Mr Ds allegations about the availability of accommodation could also form the basis of a 
claim for breach of contract. He is, in effect, saying that the seller has not provided what it 
agreed to provide. 
My view of such a claim is however very similar to my view of a claim in misrepresentation. 
There is in my view simply not enough evidence to support such a claim. 
Section 140A claims
In reply to the investigators initial view, Mr D added that he thought the credit card 
agreement created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Section 140A says:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after 
the making of the agreement or any related agreement)

The reference to any related agreement is explained at section 19:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any other person 
( the other party ), except one for the provision of security, is a linked transaction in relation 
to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal agreement ) of which it does 
not form part if

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the transaction is 
financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement

The effect of this is that, in considering whether the credit card agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, a court can take into account the timeshare contract. If a court decides that a 
credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, it can make a wide range of orders under 
section 140B  including orders requiring the creditor payments, change the terms of the 
agreement and write off debt.    
Only a court can make orders under section 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act. I 
have no power to do so, although I can make a wide range of awards, and could, if I thought it fair and reasonable to do so, require a lender to, for example, refund loan payments or 
write off a loan. I do not believe however that I should do so here.
As I have indicated, I am not persuaded that Mr D was treated unfairly by the seller in this 
case. There is simply not enough evidence to allow me properly to reach that conclusion. 
I would note as well that, whilst the credit card agreement and the sale agreement are linked 
transactions within the meaning of section 19, they were taken out entirely separately at 
different times. Mr D had the credit card before he bought the VOIs, and he could have 
bought the VOIs without using the card. So, even if I thought Mr D had been treated unfairly 
by the seller, it does not follow that I would make an award in his favour. 
Conclusion
It is not for me to say whether Mr D has a valid claim under section 75 or under section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act. Those are however relevant pieces of legislation which I must 
take into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
complaint. Having done that, I am satisfied that Halifaxs response to his claims was fair.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint and do not 
require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman