DRN-4335075
The complaint
Mr W complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) mis-sold his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here. 
Mr W took out a home insurance policy though AA in November 2021 and renewed 
the policy in November 2022.
Following a burglary Mr W made a claim for a number of items that were stolen. 
The underwriters of the policy partially settled the claim but it advised Mr W that 
valuables worth more than £1,500 individually had to be specified in the policy. And if 
they werent specified no cover was available for those items.
Mr W was unhappy with this and complained that the policy had been mis-sold. 
In its final response AA said it didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold, and all the 
cover levels and excesses were selected on-line. It added the terms and conditions 
were available during the on-line journey and the policy documents had been 
emailed to Mr W. And said renewal documents had been provided in November 2022
Mr W tells us he had a telephone conversation with AA at the time he took out the 
policy and had been advised that valuables worth more than £1,500 would be 
covered up to a maximum of £1,500.
AA say the policy was taken out on-line via a comparison website and have no 
record of a telephone conversation with Mr W.
Our investigator didnt uphold the case. He said AA had followed a reasonable 
process in selling the policy and it had provided options to allow Mr W to select the 
cover he felt was appropriate and provided the opportunity for Mr W to check the 
policy met his needs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
For the avoidance of doubt in this decision I am only considering the complaint about the 
mis-sale of the policy by Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited. I am not 
considering the way the claim was settled by the policy underwriters, that is the subject of 
another complaint being considered by this service.
Its not in dispute that the policy was taken out on-line and Ive looked at the questions AA 
asked in relation to home contents and valuables. Mr W was asked:
How much would it cost to replace all the contents in your home?
Exclude valuable items worth £1,500 or more each
Exclude bicycles worth £350 or more each
How much would it cost to replace your valuable contents items worth less than 
£1,500 each?
Include valuables that are easier to steal from your home like jewellery, gadgets, TVs , 
laptops and antiques
Would you like to insure any valuable items individually worth £1,500 or more?
Include items like jewellery, antiques, TVs, laptops and other tech gadgets
Exclude any bicycles
Mr W specified one item, a ring which had a value of £12,000. So Im satisfied Mr W was 
aware that valuables worth more than £1,500 had to be specified and he was given a 
reasonable opportunity to specify any such items.
Mr W says he telephoned AA to check that individual unspecified valuables worth more than 
£1,500 would be covered up to £1,500. AA have provided screenshots of systems searches 
for a phone call from Mr W, and it has no record of this call taking place. And Mr W hasnt 
provided any evidence that he made a call. Given there is no evidence of the call I cannot 
reasonably conclude the call took place. So Im more persuaded a call didnt happen.
Its not in dispute that AA provided information after the on-line purchase, this included a 
cover letter, the policy schedule, the policy booklet and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID). The cover letter asks Mr W to carefully make sure he has the cover he 
requires, and his details are correct. It went on to say:
Check your details and your cover
Please read the enclosed Statement of insurance very carefully and let us know as soon 
as possible if you need to make a change to your insurance cover or if your personal 
details are incorrect or missing. In particular, make sure you have cover for the entire 
value of the contents.
Im satisfied Mr W was provided with the appropriate information about the policy hed 
purchased and was given an opportunity to review the cover provided. And he was provided 
with a 14 day cooling off period. 
In the circumstances of this case I find the sales process AA followed was reasonable and 
Im satisfied the policy wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman