DRN-3309121
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was unable to make payments from his Barclays Bank UK PLC 
account. 
What happened
Mr R held a bank account with Barclays. He approached our service in April 2020 after hed 
complained to Barclays about access to his account being restricted and not being informed 
about why this was the case.
Barclays had rejected his complaint. It said it had restricted the use of his account in 
November 2019 because it had decided to close his account, and informed him of this in 
September 2019. It also said it had written to him between September 2019 and February 
2020 advising of this and that payments needed to be made into the account.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr R didnt agree and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware from the complaint submitted by Mr R to our service that hes unhappy about 
being unable to use his account in August 2019. Thats been the subject of a separate 
complaint to Barclays and will be looked at separately by our service.
Im looking here at Mr Rs complaint about access to his account being restricted in 
November 2019.
Theres no dispute that Mr R was unable to make payments from the account from 
November 2019. Barclays says this was because it had informed him in September 2019 of 
their intention to close the account.
The terms and conditions of the account state We can close an account (and stop providing 
any services and end this agreement) by giving you at least two months notice. Any benefit 
or services linked to your account will stop at the same time. The terms and conditions also 
say that If you have a borrowing facility, we can end your facility at any time and for any 
reason by giving you at least 30 days notice in writing.
Ive been provided a copy of letters sent by Barclays to Mr Rs address. These include a 
letter sent in September 2019 outlining that it would be closing the account in 60 days. Im 
satisfied the contents of the letter satisfactorily set out that the account would be closed and 
the timescales given were in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Barclays was unable to close the account in November 2019 as the account balance was 
overdrawn at that point. It sent a letter in December 2019 explaining that the chequebook 
and debit card linked to the account had been cancelled and were no longer able to be used, 
and requesting that payments be made into the account. The withdrawal of those facilities 
was consistent with its intention to close the account which had been communicated in 
September 2019. The only reason the account remained open was because the balance 
was overdrawn and so required repayment by Mr R. As Barclays intended to close the 
account once Mr R had repaid the overdraft amount, I think its fair for it to withdraw Mr Rs 
ability to make payments from the account.
Barclays sent further letters between December 2019 and February 2020 requesting 
payments be made into the account, and in February 2020 sent a letter explaining that 
access to the account was being restricted. Mr R made a complaint around a week after that 
letter was sent.
Im satisfied that Barclays informed Mr R that the account facilities (including the ability to 
make payments) were going to be removed in September 2019, and confirmed that this was 
the case in November 2019. It gave notice of this in accordance with the terms and 
conditions. It sent letters to Mr R, and he hasnt indicated that these werent received. In any 
case, wed generally take the position that if Barclays can show it sent the letters, it had 
done what it needed to in order to inform Mr R of its intentions with the account and what it 
expected of him. 
Im satisfied that Barclays gave sufficient notice of its intention to withdraw Mr Rs ability to 
make payments from the account. And the timing of withdrawing those services was in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman