DRN-2856087
The complaint
Mr C complains Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim hes made on a 
building warranty covering his property.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 14 May 2021, an extract of which is detailed 
below:
Mr C has a building warranty which covers major damage to his property in certain 
circumstances. The warranty is administered by an agent but as Amtrust is the 
underwriter - and therefore ultimately responsible for this complaint - Ill refer to it 
throughout.
Mr C was represented by a third party in making the claim.
References I make to the parties actions include those of their respective agents.
The details of this claim are well known to the parties, so I have only provided a 
summary of what happened here.
After Mr C noticed damage to his swimming pool, he contacted Amtrust to 
make a claim on his warranty but it declined the claim
Mr C obtained a report and a quote for the repairs from a screed specialist who 
said the problems were indicative of the screed around the pool failing, 
resulting in cracking in-between the tiles
Amtrust said for the claim to be covered there would need to be major 
damage as defined in the policy, caused by a defect in the structure of the 
housing unit
It said the nature of the damage identified in its expert report  relating to the 
underfloor heating, floor tiles, their associated adhesive and sealant in the 
basement swimming pool room were not part of the structure
That meant any defect in these items did not meet the definition of major 
damage as there was no defect in the structure and so it declined the claim
It considered it more likely the pool environment had contributed to 
excessive moisture levels which had been drawn into the screed surface and 
caused the tile adhesive to de-bond
Mr C complained saying that Amtrust had misquoted the relevant clause and this
meant the definition of major damage was not limited to issues relating to structure
He said because Amtrust accepted there was damage to the housing unit which 
would continue if not remedied and it was caused by defects in design, 
workmanship or materials, the claim should be covered under the warranty
Amtrust disagreed, reiterating the terms of the policy were clear and it 
maintained its stance and the claim remained declined
Our investigator thought the wording of the policy was open to interpretation 
and concluded that the epoxy resin beneath the tiles in the pool room was part 
of the waterproof envelope of the property, and had failed so the damage 
constituted major damage as defined by the policy
The investigator said Amtrust hadnt acted fairly when it declined the claim and 
should now reimburse costs Mr C had incurred in rectifying the damage together 
with interest at 8%
Amtrust disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with most insurance policies, building warranties dont cover every risk that might 
impact a property. The terms and conditions of the warranty explain what is and isnt 
covered and insurance companies wouldnt generally be expected to cover risks not 
covered by, or specifically excluded, in the terms. When making a claim on the policy, 
the onus is on the policyholder to show theres a valid claim - in short, that what they 
are claiming for is covered by the policy.
When reaching my decision, Ill be cognisant of this while keeping in mind what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
The terms of the policy
These explain the warranty covers claims where theres major damage to the housing 
unit. So Ive looked at the policy terms to determine if the damage to Mr Cs pool 
meets this requirement. Both these terms have defined meanings within the policy.
I. MAJOR DAMAGE
a)Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for 
which a Certificate of Insurance
has been issued by the Underwriter;
b)a condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction 
of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a 
Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter;
in either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components
the Structure;
the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof 
Envelope; which is first discovered during the Period 
of Insurance
In Mr Cs opinion, the absence of the word of after components within (b) changes 
the meaning of the term. Hes suggested the correct interpretation would be to ignore 
the bullet points as the preceding sentence isnt connected to them.
I accept the term might be clearer if this word had been included but Im not persuaded 
theres sufficient ambiguity so as to render the intention unclear given the context of the 
wording when viewed as a whole. Especially as Mr Cs interpretation would render the 
bullet points to be meaningless. The usual approach in situations like this is that words 
must be given their ordinary meaning and reflect the intention of the parties and the commercial sense of the agreement.
So, I think the common-sense interpretation is that for a claim to be covered, there 
would need to be a defect in the design, workmanship materials or components of the 
structure or waterproofing elements of the waterproof envelope. On balance, Im 
satisfied this is real intention of the wording and the interpretation Ive given when 
assessing Amtrusts handling of the claim.
Is there a defect in the structure?
Structure is defined in the policy and the part relevant to this complaint is detailed below
The following elements shall comprise the Structure of a Housing Unit:
floor decking and screeds, where these fail to support normal loads
From this I think its clear the screed will form part of the structure only if it fails to 
support normal loads. I know Mr C doesnt agree with this definition and doesnt think 
its logical but its not my role to say how an insurance policy should be worded, thats 
a matter for the insurer.
The surveyor instructed by Amtrust inspected the damage and concluded that there 
was no evidence the screed had failed to support normal loads or that the grout 
cracking and tiles debonding was as a result of defective design, workmanship, 
material or components.
Mr C has put forward the phraseology of the report was written specifically so Amtrust 
could decline the claim. But hes not presented any evidence to support this supposition 
and Im not persuaded it has merit. The author of the report is a chartered building 
engineer and was asked to inspect the damage and report back to Amtrust about 
whether there was likely to be cover for it under the terms of the policy. So it seems to 
me logical the report would make reference to the terms of the policy and describe the 
damage as it relates to them in order to do this. Ive not seen enough evidence for me 
to doubt his professional opinion on this matter.
On balance and based on the evidence available, Im satisfied the screed hasnt 
failed to support normal loads and Im not persuaded its been demonstrated theres a 
defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of the structure which 
constitutes major damage.
Is there a defect in the waterproof envelope?
Waterproof envelope is defined in the policy as detailed below:
Waterproof envelope shall mean the ground floors, external walls, roofs, 
skylights, windows and doors of the Housing Unit but excluding those parts 
below ground floor slab level
Our investigator concluded that the epoxy resin was a waterproofing element and 
formed part of the waterproof envelope of the housing unit. For this reason, he upheld 
the complaint.
I dont agree with our investigator on this point  Ive not seen any evidence to 
persuade me the epoxy resin  whether it failed or not  forms part of the waterproof 
envelope as defined in the policy terms.
Based on the evidence available, Im not persuaded theres a defect in the design, 
workmanship, materials or components in the waterproofing elements of the 
waterproof envelope.
Since the complaint has been with this Service, Amtrust has also highlighted that the 
definition of housing unit specifically excludes swimming pools and the waterproof envelope excludes anything below ground floor slab level. And in this case, the 
swimming pool is in the basement of the property, below ground floor level. So even if I 
were to agree the pool fell within the definition of the waterproof envelope  which I 
dont  I would still agree this claim would not be covered.
Amtrust didnt provide anything further. Mr C disagreed, providing the following comments:
Insurance was there to protect him against this type of situation
He believed the wrong screed had been used and this had resulted in the damage 
seen
Amtrusts surveyor should have identified this during his inspections of the 
construction of the pool
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Mr Cs further comments havent changed my mind on the outcome of 
his complaint. I realise this will be disappointing.
I acknowledge Mr Cs views on insurance but as I explained previously, most insurance 
policies dont cover every risk that might impact a property. And specifically, his doesnt.
Here, the screed would only be considered to be part of the structure of the property  and 
therefore possibly covered by the policy, subject to other requirements - where it failed to 
support normal loads. 
The professional opinion of the surveyor who inspected the damage on Amtrusts behalf 
concluded the screed hadnt failed to support normal loads. And as Ive outlined previously, I 
havent been given enough to make me doubt this professional opinion.
Amtrusts role in inspecting the construction of the pool is not something I can consider as 
part of this complaint - it falls outside the remit of this Service as its not a regulated activity. 
So, I make no findings on Mr Cs comments about this.
Overall, I remain satisfied Amtrust hasnt acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion to decline 
the claim and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman