DRN-3267740
The complaint
Miss B complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans contacted her
Inappropriately concerning a loan she has with it.
What happened
Miss B has a loan with Everyday. In November 2019 she became homeless and was unable 
to work. She made contact with a debt charity for help. In early December 2019, she told 
Everyday about her situation and gave it the reference number the charity had provided. 
Miss B complains that from January 2020, she received constant phone calls and voicemails 
and a staff member of Everyday visited her accommodation in February 2020.
Everyday looked into her complaint. It said it had allowed thirty days breathing space to
await further contact from Miss B or the debt charity. From 10 January to 7 February 2020
(when it conducted the field visit), Everyday says it called Miss B sixteen times and left
eight messages. It said in that time it had called the debt charity, but theyd said Miss B had
contacted them for advice only. Everyday didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B referred her complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. She said she
felt it wasnt unfair for Everyday to attempt to contact Miss B or to conduct the field visit when
it didnt get a response, but that the number of attempts in one month was excessive. She
recommended Everyday should pay Miss B £100 to recognise the trouble and upset the
repeated contact wouldve caused her.
Weve not heard from Miss B regarding the investigators proposal, but Everyday has
rejected it. It said its contact had been in line with guidance issued to lenders. As there was
no agreement, Miss Bs complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with our investigator and dont think Miss Bs complaint should be 
upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying:
Theres no dispute here that Miss B owed Everyday money under the loan agreement she
had with it. Shed received the money it had lent, and has had the benefit of it, so its only fair
that she repay it. But this complaint is about what happened when she became homeless 
and unemployed; Miss B feels Everyday treated her unreasonably by contacting her so often 
and visiting her in person when shed been in touch with a debt charity.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time Miss B first told Everyday
of her situation, under the heading Forbearance and due consideration, CONC 7.3.11 said
A firm must suspend the active pursuit of recovery of a debt from a customer for a 
reasonable period where the customer informs the firm that a debt counsellor or another 
person acting on the customer's behalf or the customer is developing a repayment plan.
CONC 7.3.12 said A reasonable periodshould generally be for thirty days where there is
evidence of a genuine intention to develop a plan and the firm should consider extending the
period for a further thirty days where there is reasonable evidence demonstrating progress to
agreeing a plan.
Everyday granted breathing space of thirty days  in other words, it didnt contact Miss B
about her loan in that time. After that time had elapsed, I can see from the notes provided 
that it contacted the debt charity on 9 January 2020. The notes say that the debt charity said
theyd provided advice only at that stage.
On 10 January 2020, Everyday called Miss B, obtained her new address and agreed to call
back at the end of the following week to discuss progress. It tried unsuccessfully to call
Miss B again on 24 January 2020 and no more than once or twice a day (and not every day)
until the field call was conducted on 7 February 2020.
Everyday had provided a reasonable period as required and tried to make contact with
Miss B to obtain an update. This is in line with its obligations under CONC, and I dont think
thats unreasonable given Ive already said that its fair that she repays money shes
borrowed.
Ive thought carefully about the number of times Everyday attempted to contact Miss B in the
period leading up to the field visit. I dont think once or twice a day is unreasonable where
there has been no successful contact.
If Miss B had been able to answer a call, I would have expected Everyday to listen to what
she had to say and, in all likelihood, await further contact from the debt charity. But as
Miss B didnt take the calls and the debt charity told Everyday they were only providing
advice, I dont think its unreasonable that it kept trying to speak with her. Furthermore,
having tried to speak with her but been unsuccessful, I dont think its unreasonable that
Everyday visited her in person.
While I empathise with the situation in which Miss B now finds herself, I dont think it was
unfair or unreasonable for Everyday to attempt to contact her on a regular basis. It follows
that I dont think Everyday has done anything which would lead me to ask it to make a
payment to Miss B.
Everyday has accepted my provisional decision, but weve not heard from Miss B. In the 
absence of any further evidence or arguments, I have no reason to reach a conclusion 
different from that set out above.
Id encourage Miss B to work with Everyday to try to find a suitable repayment plan, and I 
remind Everyday of its obligation to treat customers fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman