DRN-1348859
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs B says she didnt know she had taken out PPI.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of Mrs Bs application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mrs B wanted to take it out. And the box has been 
ticked.
Mrs B says she didnt tick the box and has suggested it was ticked by Lloyds after she filled 
in the form. But where the available evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I must make a 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. There isnt any further 
evidence to support that the box was ticked by someone else after Mrs B filled in the form. 
And, based on the evidence I have, I think its most likely that it was Mrs B who ticked the 
box.
So I think Lloyds did make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about the PPI. And I think 
Mrs B chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Lloyds gave Mrs B any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont think it recommended it to her. This means Lloyds didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for Mrs B. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
Mrs B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the policy 
couldve paid out for significantly longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay. So it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs B off 
taking it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:    Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs B,
     that was unfair.
    To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
     that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman