DRN-3660257
The complaint
Mr C complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) for not carrying out 
annual services as required and for leaving problems with a flue undetected and unrepaired. 
He wants British Gas to make changes to its processes and to compensate him for the risk 
he thinks he faced and the costs he incurred.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr C took out a British Gas boiler cover policy. This included an annual 
service and cover for call outs.
In January 2020, Mr C called out British Gas as he was experiencing a problem with his 
boiler. Work was done at that time.
Mr Cs policy renewed in 2020.
In January 2021, Mr C called out British Gas as his hot water and radiators were not getting 
hot. No fault was identified, and he was advised to reduce the flow of water to allow it to get 
hotter.
During that visit, the engineer completed a work sheet which also contained the details of an 
annual service. No service had actually been carried out. At that time, as the coronavirus 
pandemic was ongoing, British Gas was operating a policy not to carry out annual services, 
and to only conduct essential repairs.
Mr C was frustrated by the visit from British Gas and cancelled his policy.
He contacted an alternative company who attended his home in March 2021. The alternative 
company looked at the flue for his boiler in Mr Cs loft space and identified that it was not 
sufficiently secure. The flue was marked at a point for a clamp to be fitted but no clamp had 
been fitted. The engineer advised Mr C that this meant that the flue could become loose or 
detached. He marked the boiler system as at risk and arranged to return to secure the flue 
soon afterwards. The boiler was left on in the interim at the request of Mr C, as his family 
suffered from cold related conditions and needed the heating available.
Mr C paid £180 for the repairs to be completed by the alternative engineers.
He complained to British Gas. He felt that he and his family had been exposed to risk of 
gases escaping from the flue and he felt that he had been deceived about the checks done 
into the safety of his system.
British Gas acknowledged that the annual service had not been carried out and offered Mr C 
£30 to reflect this.
Mr C was not satisfied and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that the 
complaint should be upheld, and British Gas should pay to Mr C a total of £150 
compensation.
Mr C did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I set out my preliminary view in respect of this complaint in July 2022. In that provisional 
decision I explained that I agreed that the complaint should be upheld but I thought that the 
particular effects on Mr C had been severe and the level of compensation should be 
increased. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment.
 
British Gas has not responded to the provisional decision. Mr C has provided submissions 
and further evidence of where he feels he was deceived by British Gas. He has also 
provided evidence of his health and how this could be affected by cold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided details of the effects upon him and he has explained his concerns about 
the systems and practices operated by British Gas. He has explained that around 5 
engineers attended his home over the period of cover and 3 of them would have seen the 
flue but did not identify the issue with the clamp. He also advised that he was not aware of 
British Gass policy to not carry out services during the pandemic and how this added to his 
feelings of having been deceived.
I appreciate his worry about the practices operated, but as previously explained we are not 
able to consider broader practices and policies of a business. We look at how the actions of 
a business affect the individual consumer, and we seek to put that right. 
Mr C has set out his residual concerns that he may have been exposed to carbon monoxide 
or other gases in the flue. I appreciate his worry, but I remain of the view expressed in my 
provisional decision. There is no evidence that the flue actually leaked, or any gases 
escaped into the loft space. The flue was described as at risk, rather than that it presented a 
danger. 
I have taken into account the effects suffered by Mr C, including a severe loss of trust in 
businesses of this type, and the extensive feelings that he has been deceived. I am satisfied 
that the effects on Mr C have been substantial, and I consider that the level of compensation 
I proposed is in line with the awards we would usually make in similar circumstances, where 
a consumer had been caused substantial distress and inconvenience. 
For these reasons, I remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision and adopt that 
decision, as supplemented by the above, as my final decision and I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
As set out in my provisional decision, in order to put things right I consider that British Gas 
should provide to Mr C a carbon monoxide alarm, reimburse him for the costs of repair to the 
flue, and pay him £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Provide Mr C with a carbon monoxide alarm, as detailed under his previous 
agreement;
Reimburse Mr C for the costs he incurred when engaging an alternative engineer in 
March 2021; and
Pay to Mr C £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman