DRN-3166036
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how Amtrust Europe Limited handled a claim he made under his sofa 
fabric protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T purchased a sofa from a well-known retailer, and this was delivered to him in May 
2019. At the same time as purchasing the sofa, Mr T took out an insurance policy on the 
furniture, to run from the time delivery of the item was taken, until May 2024.
Around a year after the sofa was delivered to Mr T, he made a claim under the insurance 
policy. On the claim form submitted to Amtrust, Mr T explained that he had fallen on the 
sofa, and the seat, and foot rest of the recliner was damaged. 
On receiving the claim form, Amtrust asked Mr T for photos of the sofa. And then it said it 
would send a technician out to Mr Ts address, to look at the damaged item. Which it did.
In July 2020 Mr T was then sent a letter. This noted there were two options to deal with the 
damage to the sofa. The first being for parts to be ordered from the manufacturer, although 
this might take some time. Or the second being for Mr T to accept a cash settlement offer of 
£40, which it said was based on Amtrusts cost to repair the sofa. Amtrust said some 
customers liked to choose this option and live with the damage on the sofa as it was.
In later letters Mr T was informed that the right-hand seat cover had been ordered, for this 
damage to be replaced. And its my understanding that an upholster contacted Mr T once 
the seat cover was in, to come and fit the item. However, Mr T was unhappy with this. 
Mr T explained that replacing the sear cover wasnt sufficient to repair the damage to the 
sofa. And the £40 compensation offered in lieu of repairing the item wasnt reasonable 
either. He said this monetary offer was instead an attempt to try and encourage him not to 
pursue the claim any longer. So, Mr T raised his concerns.
Amtrust responded. It said there has been a mistake in July 2020, after the review of Mr Ts 
claim. Amtrust said it hadnt told Mr T that not all of his claim was actually covered under the 
policy. It said damage to broken mechanisms on the sofa werent covered under Mr Ts 
policy, but it hadnt let him know that. This meaning there was confusion when it offered to 
replace a seat cover or pay £40 instead of completing the replacement. Amtrust apologised 
for this error and offered Mr T £50 compensation to recognise the mistake here. And, said it 
would contact Mr T to deal with the seat cover only. 
However, Mr T remained dissatisfied with this position. So, he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
When providing its file to this service, Amtrust said that given Mr Ts particular 
circumstances, it would also now be willing to repair the damaged sofa mechanism.
Our investigator considered the case, and thought this offer was fair. She said that Mr T 
purchased a policy called Fabric Protection Plus, which only provided cover for the settee 
covers, rather than its internal structure. She noted that as Amtrust were offering to do more 
than the insurance policy provided for, the offer Amtrust had made in respect of the matter 
was reasonable.
Mr T didnt agree. He noted that the technician that visited his property was not at his home 
for long. And he didnt agree that the mechanism in the sofa was damaged  rather that it 
was the foam and seat cover. Mr T said that the offer made to him, had been in an attempt 
to stop him pursuing his claim, and he didnt consider the offer to be fair.
Mr T also said that because the sofa was unusable, he no longer had this, and it had been 
replaced with a second-hand donation. And the resolution that would be acceptable to him 
would be for Amtrust to pay the full cost of his sofa. 
Our investigator didnt agree this would be fair and reasonable, and still considered the offer 
provided by Amtrust already to be fair. So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this case to both parties. In this I said;
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. This is because at this stage, Im 
satisfied the offer Amtrust has already provided is fair. I do appreciate this will be a 
disappointment to Mr T, and that he feels strongly about the matter. But Ive explained my 
reasoning for this below.
Amtrust, as an insurer, has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly  and to not 
unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about whether it acted in line with this duty.
Cover under the policy
Ive seen a screenshot from Amtrusts system, as well as the terms and conditions of Mr Ts 
insurance policy. Having done so, Im aware that Mr Ts policy is called Fabric Protection 
Plus. As with all insurance policies, this doesnt cover everything that could happen to the 
sofa.
Instead, the Fabric Protection Plus policy provides cover for the sofa, when there has been 
damage caused by accidental staining, or by accidental damage resulting in rips, punctures, 
scuffs, burns, chips or scratches to the external surface of the item. 
Given this, Im aware the policy Mr T purchased would only cover damage to the external 
surface of Mr Ts sofa  if caused in the above ways. It wouldnt cover anything else.
Ive therefore looked to understand the damage to Mr Ts sofa, and Ive considered whether 
this fell within the cover Mr Ts policy provided. To do this, Ive considered Mr Ts 
explanations, his claim form, and the technical report an expert completed when it reviewed 
the sofa.
On doing so, Im aware there was some damage to the external surface to the sofa. It was 
ripped. As mentioned above, Mr Ts policy does provide cover for this. This has been 
accepted by Amtrust, and settlement offered, which I do think is fair.But Im also satisfied that there was additional damage to the sofa. The technical report 
provided by the expert who visited Mr Ts address said that Mr T had;
fallen in the house onto the right hand facing seat when the recliner was opened, this has 
ripped the cover and buckled the mechanism and the [sic] snapped the stretcher rail. The 
seat interior has also torn.
Ive no reason to disbelief what this expert has said. I appreciate Mr T has said the 
technician wasnt at his house long, and that he doesnt think the information on this damage 
is true. But the expert has provided sufficient detail to persuade me they observed more 
damage to the sofa than just the cover. The above provides written detail of additional 
damage. And the technicians report also provided photos of the sofa to support the written 
information. 
Because Mr T didnt have cover for the any additional damage  just the external surface of 
the sofa - Im currently satisfied it was reasonable for Amtrust not to accept this damage.
Settlement of the claim 
Amtrust has offered the following in settlement of the claim;
To replace the seat cover;
Pay £40 to Mr T if he didnt want the seat cover replaced by Amtrust.
And later, after the case came to this service, to fix the mechanisms, given Mr Ts 
personal circumstances.
I think the above offers are fair. As our investigator has noted, and Ive detailed above, Mr 
Ts policy didnt cover anything other than the external sofa cover. So, in offering to now 
repair the mechanisms, Amtrusts offer is over and above the cover Mr T paid for and is 
entitled to.
Amtrusts original offer of replacing the seat cover was also fair. This was accidentally 
damaged as per the policy cover, and the policy allows for the cover to be replaced. So, Im 
satisfied this is a fair way to deal with the claim. 
I do understand why Mr T felt that the option of accepting £40 instead was for him not to 
pursue the claim. Amtrust said some people prefer this option, in a letter it sent to him. But I 
think this was simply an alternative option for Mr T should he have wished to accept it. The 
policy does allow Amtrust to settlement the claim by giving a payment up to the cost of a 
repair or replacement of the covered item  in this case the sofa cover. And, I can see this is 
what it based the offer of £40 on. So, I dont think it did anything wrong here.
Mr T has explained he no longer has the sofa, so the seat cover or offer to fix the 
mechanisms are no longer useful. But, the offer of £40 is still open to Mr T. And its now up 
to Mr T whether he wants to accept this.
Handling of the claim Mr T has also raised concerns about the overall handling of this claim. So, Ive looked into 
this too. And, whilst I think the outcome of the claim was fair, Im satisfied there were some 
problems with communicating this to Mr T.
I say this because once the technician had visited Mr Ts property, and provided its report to 
Amtrust, it was clear that some of the damage to the sofa wasnt covered under the policy. 
But Mr T wasnt told that. Instead, he was provided with the offer of a replacement sofa 
cover or £40 cash, without any further explanation around why any additional damage to the 
sofa would not be settled.
It wasnt until some months later, in October 2020, once the seat cover that had been 
ordered arrived, that Mr T was told why this was the only part of his claim being settled. I can 
appreciate how this would have caused confusion and upset to Mr T. 
Amtrust has said offered to pay Mr T £50 in compensation to apologise for this. And I do 
think this is reasonable in the circumstances. I think this reasonably recognises the 
confusion this caused to Mr T. And so, Amtrust should provide this to Mr T, if it hasnt 
already.
AmTrust responded to my provisional decision and noted it didnt have anything further to 
add. Mr T didnt respond with any further points or evidence in respect of the provisional 
decision reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Neither party has provided me with any 
additional evidence or comments to alter the provisional decision noted above. So, my final 
decision remains the same as that detailed in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that Amtrust Europe Limiteds offer in settlement of 
the claim, and in respect of compensation is fair. So, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay 
Mr T a total of £90 if it hasnt already done so. This being;
£40 in settlement of his claim for the seat cover (as he no longer has the sofa to 
replace the cover, or to fix anything else it has offered to outside of the policy terms);
£50 as compensation for the above delay in explaining to Mr T what was, and what 
wasnt covered by the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman