The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Experian Limited is showing financial information relating to 
him on his credit file.
What happened
Experian is a credit reference agency (CRA). This means it collects financial information 
from lenders and other sources which relates to consumers, and shows it in a credit file for 
that consumer where it can be seen by the consumer and businesses.
Mr P says his ex-wife
withdrew and misused money and credit in accounts he had opened in his sole
name; and
opened and used accounts in his sole name without his consent.
When payments became due on the accounts, she didnt pay them, and the missed 
payments, and resulting defaults, were registered against Mr P on his credit file.
When Mr P became aware of what had happened, he asked Experian to delete references 
about these defaults from his credit file. Experian said that as a CRA it had to show the 
information businesses gave it, and couldnt amend or delete it without the businesss 
agreement.
Some of the businesses agreed to remove all reference to the debt and defaults. However 
some did not. Experian told Mr P that in respect of the entries still on his credit file it could 
add a notice of correction (NOC). This allows a consumer who disputes an entry on their 
credit file to explain why they do so.
In relation to one particular business, which Ill call Company A, Experian offered Mr P 
wording which it was willing to add to his entry. However he didnt accept this wording. He 
wanted the entry to say Company A had written off its debt because of fraud committed by 
Mr Ps ex-wife.
Company A said this wasnt correct. It had written off the debt because of medical problems 
Mr P had suffered, not because it accepted there had been fraud.
Mr P also asked Experian to register a notice of disassociation (NOD) on his credit file to 
make it clear there was no financial association between him and his ex-wife. However 
Experian said that as Mr Ps ex-wife wasnt mentioned or associated with him anywhere on 
his credit file, this wasnt appropriate and not something it could do.
DRN-1433531Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said we 
couldnt tell Experian what it should or shouldnt include in an NOC  this was something he 
would have to raise with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). She also agreed it 
wasnt appropriate for Experian to add an NOD where Mr Ps ex-wife wasnt mentioned in his 
credit file as being associated with him.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators recommendation. So this complaint has been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a CRA, Experian isnt in a position to delete or amend information sent to it without the 
businesss consent. However it can add an NOC in respect of an entry. This is a short 
explanatory note for a consumer to say why they disagree with the entry.
A business doesnt have to include an NOC for a number of permitted reasons, including if it 
thinks its incorrect. In this case, Company A said the reason Mr P wanted to include in the 
NOC for the debt being written off wasnt correct.
If an NOC is refused for one of the permitted reasons, the consumer can apply to ICO for a 
ruling on what should be added as an NOC. This course is open to Mr P. But in view of what 
Company A has said, I think ICO is unlikely to overrule Experian.
I think Experian was justified in not including the NOC Mr P suggested, and I cant 
reasonably tell Experian to add Mr Ps wording. I would urge Mr P to try to agree a mutually 
acceptable form of wording with Experian.
In relation to the NOD Mr P wants added to his credit file, I agree with Experian and the 
investigator that because Mr Ps ex-wife isnt shown on his credit file as associated with him, 
it isnt appropriate for an NOD to be added in respect of her. So I cant reasonably require 
Experian to do this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against 
Experian Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman