DRN-2924528
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited handled his claim made under his 
furniture insurance policy.
Mr P is represented in this complaint by his partner but, for ease, Ill refer to Mr P throughout. 
All references to Amtrust include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr P bought a sofa from a retailer. At the same time, he bought a furniture 
protection plan, which provided five years of cover for the cost of repairing defects or failures 
to the manual or electric recliner actions. This insurance policy was underwritten by Amtrust.
In August 2020 Mr P noticed that a rod connected to the recliner on his sofa had broken. He 
called Amtrust and a technician attended. The technician said the recliner had stopped 
working because the motor had snapped, which was a structural fault. They fitted a new 
motor, lead and handset. Two days later, Mr P contacted Amtrust to say the chair had been 
wobbling since the visit. A technician visited. In his notes, he says Mr P told him hed 
forgotten to mention previously that this had been happening for a year or a year and a half. 
The technician said the damage was due to wear and tear. Amtrust refused the claim as it 
said the damage wasnt consistent with a single incident and the sofa had worn over time. 
Mr P complained. He said the damage was a direct result of the repair Amtrust had made 
when its technician had first attended, and not to do with the information it said hed 
forgotten to mention. He said hed never mentioned it had been happening for over a year, 
because it hadnt. Amtrust noted Mr Ps concerns that he hadnt told the technician it had 
happened over a year ago. But it said the policy covered him for sudden and single incidents 
of accidental damage and staining and it wouldnt pay for damage caused by wear and tear, 
or anything which happens gradually or over a sustained period of time. 
Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted fairly in declining the claim. He understood Mr P 
thought the damage had been caused by the technician from Amtrust but he had to rely on 
the evidence. And he believed Amtrust had acted fairly in following the technicians 
assessment.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy says it covers the cost of repairing defects or the 
failure of manual or electric recliner actions. Section 3 of the policy explains what isnt 
covered and includes any damage caused by wear and tear, or anything which happens 
gradually or over a sustained period of time. 
So, for Mr Ps claim to be successful, the damage to his recliner must have arisen from the 
failure of the mechanism. But any damage caused by wear and tear is specifically excluded.
When Mr P first contacted Amtrust in August 2020, it accepted the claim and repaired the 
motor. Mr P contacted Amtrust a few days later to say the chair had started wobbling after 
the technicians visit. He believes the new problem with the chair was a direct result of the 
action taken by the technician. If that was the case, Id agree it would be reasonable to 
expect Amtrust to repair it. But the technician says Mr P advised him that the problem had 
been happening for over a year, or a year and a half, and while he could have repaired it if it 
had been reported sooner, it was now too late. Mr P denied saying the problem had been 
happening for over a year and said it hadnt, reiterating his belief that the damage had been 
caused by the Amtrust technician. 
So, there are two different version of events and no independent evidence of the 
conversation which would lead me to favour one version of what was said over the other. So, 
Ive relied on the other information thats available. 
The technician who inspected Mr Ps furniture provided a written report with supporting 
pictures. The technician said the pictures show the seat and back have had heavy use. Ive 
looked at those pictures and can see there is discolouration and creases in the cushions, 
which would indicate the seat has been used heavily. That, in itself, doesnt mean the 
problem with the recliner happened over a period of time. But its more likely that damage 
will be caused by wear and tear if a recliner has been used a lot. 
The technician also said the torsion bars could have been adjusted had the problem been 
reported earlier. And he said it was now beyond repair because of the amount of wear. This 
would indicate that the damage wasnt something that had happened recently but gradually, 
over a period of time. So, on balance, and in light of the available evidence, I think it would 
be unfair to discount the technicians view that the problem was caused by wear and tear. 
This type of damage isnt covered under Mr Ps policy and so I dont think Amtrust has acted 
unfairly in declining his claim on this occasion. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr Ps experienced but, for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think Amtrust needs to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman