DRN-2607526
The complaint
Mr S complains about the repairs to his cars rear window made by esure Insurance Limited 
agent after a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ss rear window was damaged and esures agent replaced it. But Mr S said glass 
fragments were left in the tailgate. He called the agent and was firstly told that this would be 
covered under its workmanship guarantee. Mr S was told to get a quote from a dealer to 
remove the tailgate and remove the glass. 
Mr S did this, but esure then said that the fragments fell into the tailgate due to the initial 
damage and this wasnt covered by its guarantee. Mr S made calls and drove an hour to 
have his car looked at by the dealer. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esures 
agent had told Mr S several times that the repairs would be covered and so hed obtained 
the quote as it required. He thought esure should now pay for the cost of this repair, with 
interest, and pay Mr S £50 compensation for the calls hed made and his petrol costs.  
esures agent said it wasnt responsible for the glass in the tailgate, but it agreed to pay for 
the repairs and the £50 compensation. However, esure disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the replacement of the window, Mr S reported the noise from the glass in the 
tailgate to esures agent. I think Mr S was then led to believe that the agents workmanship 
guarantee would cover the repairs needed to remove the glass fragments. I think he was told 
on four different occasions that either the agent would rectify this or that it would pay for the 
repairs. And Mr S was told to obtain a dealers estimate to have this done. 
esures agent later said that this was a mistake. It said the glass in the tailgate wasnt its 
responsibility as this could be due to the initial damage rather than the repair. It also said 
that its Terms of Business, which were sent to Mr S, required him to obtain two written 
quotes for repairs under its guarantee. 
But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for esure to withdraw its offer to pay for the 
repairs after raising Mr Ss expectations. And I dont think it would be fair for it to require him 
to obtain two quotes after he has already followed its instruction and obtained a dealers 
estimate. 
I think esure should honour the offer repeatedly made by its agent and confirmed in its 
response to the investigators view. 
Putting things right
1. I think esure should reimburse Mr S for the cost of the repairs made to his tailgate, on 
production of an invoice.
2. Mr S has been without his money for some time. So I think esure should add interest to 
the reimbursement at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
3. Mr S had to drive for an hour to the dealers and he had to make repeated calls to the 
agent. I think esure should reasonably pay him £50 compensation for these costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons give above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman