DRN-3218059
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bradford & Bingley plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mrs N in 1989 in connection with a 
mortgage that she took out with her late mother. Mr N was added to the mortgage several 
years later.
The policy provided Mrs N with cover if she couldnt work because of accident or sickness. 
Mrs N paid a monthly amount for the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs N disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Bradford & Bingley recommended the policy 
to Mrs N, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did Bradford & Bingley give Mrs N information that was clear, fair and not misleading 
in order to put her in a position where she could make an informed choice about the 
insurance she was considering buying? 
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mrs N is worse off as a 
result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there had been no problems with the sale? 
I have decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
 
Mrs N says Bradford & Bingley told her she had to take the PPI to get the mortgage she 
wanted. So she doesnt consider she was given a proper choice about buying the policy. Ive 
noted everything Mrs N has said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs N and Bradford 
& Bingley when the policy sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over thirty 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Bradford & Bingley hasnt been able to provide much paperwork from the time the policy was 
sold. Thats not surprising given the amount of time thats passed since the sale, and its 
similar to some other cases Ive seen. But its provided a copy of the mortgage application 
form that Mrs N and her late mother completed. From what Ive seen, there was nothing on 
the form to suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
 
And it seems Mrs N had to decide whether she wanted accident and sickness cover only, or 
redundancy cover as well. Mrs N chose accident and sickness cover only.
Taking all of these points into account, and without anything else to support what Mrs N has 
told me, I havent been able to safely conclude that Bradford & Bingley didnt make her 
aware that the policy was optional. 
Mrs N satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out.
Mrs N suggests that the maximum pay out from any claim wouldve been £1,000. But this 
limit refers to the maximum monthly benefit amount. Mrs Ns monthly benefit amount was 
£182, so Im not persuaded she wouldve been affected by the limit shes referred to.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mrs N before she agreed 
to buy it. But she chose to take out the policy, knowing she would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think Mrs N 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided. 
Mrs N wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. So I dont think she 
needed better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
 
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the policy to Mrs N, so it didnt have to check her 
circumstances to make sure it was suitable for her. She had to decide that for herself.
 
But even if Bradford & Bingley had recommended the policy, from what Ive seen of Mrs Ns 
circumstances I dont think it was unsuitable for her. The policy wouldve paid out in addition 
to the employer sick pay Mrs N says she was entitled to, and wouldve meant she couldve 
used those benefits to pay for other expenses. And Mrs N was borrowing a large amount for 
a long time, secured on her home, so failing to make the repayments promptly couldve been 
serious for her. So I think Mrs N wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing 
arrangements.
In summary, I think Mrs N agreed to take out the cover, knowing she didnt have to. And 
given it provided broadly what I think she expected when she agreed to it, I dont think she 
would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if she had been 
better informed about its cost and terms.
Which means Bradford & Bingley does not have to repay all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs N.
But Bradford & Bingley has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N because: - Bradford & Bingley got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mrs N about that. Because Bradford & 
Bingley didnt tell Mrs N, that was unfair. 
- To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this 
case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Bradford & Bingley plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N. 
But Bradford & Bingley plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs N any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman