DRN-2556967
The complaint
Mr B has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money for transfers he didnt 
make. This has resulted in his account being closed.
What happened
In November 2019 Barclays blocked Mr Bs access to his account. They then took action to 
close his account with immediate effect. He was overdrawn to the tune of over £5,000 and 
had no agreement in place that would allow this level of overdraft.
Mr B complained to Barclays. They told him the terms and conditions of his account allowed 
them to close his account. Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Barclays told us theyd closed Mr Bs account after a high number of claims about disputed 
transactions. They no longer wished to accept the risk of having Mr B as a customer. 
However theyd not carried out a detailed investigation of the fraudulent claims which Mr B 
said hed not made.
After a delay allowing Barclays to review the claims Mr B had made, Barclays confirmed they 
believed Mr B had made these claims himself.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included Mr B saying nobody else had access 
to his account or mobile app. Overall our investigator felt the evidence showed Mr B must 
have made the fraud claims  and the transfers following these claims  as there was no 
obvious point of compromise.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome. His complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill explain below how Ive reached my decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
thats had an impact on the decision Im making here.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Barclays. Ive also 
noted the detail in our investigators view of 18 January 2021 but feel no need to rerun some 
of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the 
decision Im making.
Specifically Mr B has told us he didnt make the call to Barclays raising a number of claims 
about fraudulent activity in November 2019. This matches what he told us when he first 
brought his complaint to us. He told us then that hed been using his debit card and then got 
a lot of refunds made to his account which he didnt know about.
However at the same time as the refunds were being received into Mr Bs account, the 
records from his online and mobile account usage show Mr B was using his account and 
making transfers of the fraud credits hed received. Mr B has never lost sight of his debit 
card and hasnt told us of any potential compromise.  
The correct passcode to log into Mr Bs account online was used. And Mr Bs app was 
accessed through fingerprint or facial recognition to make the transfers out of his account 
after the debit card refunds had been received. The transfers around this time match data 
from other transactions which Mr B hasnt disputed hed carried out.
There is a possibility an unknown party was able to access Mr Bs account. Ive considered 
this.
I think its unlikely an unknown third party would have known enough about Mr Bs debit card 
usage to raise the fraudulent claims. Nor would this information be of any use to a third party 
unless they knew they were able to access Mr Bs account. As Mr B has denied his card or 
account was used by a third party, I can only think its most likely he made the call about the 
transactions and then the transfers when refunded money was made available to his 
account.
Mr B had a history of making claims about fraudulent activity on his account having viewed 
records going back throughout 2018 when a number of claims were lodged.
I appreciate Mr B now owes Barclays a considerable amount of money and is anxious about 
how that will work out. Barclays has now passed this debt to a third party. That third party is 
obliged to treat Mr B sympathetically when considering what repayment options to offer 
Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman