DRN-2948959
The complaint
Mrs A complains her gadget insurer, Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust), has unreasonably 
declined a claim she made after her laptop computer stopped working. 
What happened
Amtrust initially rejected Mrs As claim on the basis her laptop had been damaged before her 
insurance policy began. They said that meant it didnt meet a condition of the policy  that 
the laptop needed to be in good condition and full working order before cover began. 
Mrs A complained, noting that the laptop was working fine up until it stopped working. She 
accepts that the laptops casing was cracked before the policy began, but feels that cant be 
whats caused the laptop to stop working, as it had worked fine for about a year after getting 
the crack. 
Unresolved, the matter came to us. Our investigator agreed with Mrs A  Amtrust hadnt 
proved that the old damage had caused the more recent problem. So they couldnt fairly 
apply the policy exclusion. He said Amtrust needed to inspect the laptop further and then 
decide whether to accept or reject the claim.
Mrs A accepted that view, but Amtrust disagreed. They highlighted the good condition part 
of the policy wording, saying they felt the crack in the case meant the laptop didnt meet that 
standard. Our investigator pointed out there wasnt any definition in the policy for what good 
condition meant, and said his view wasnt changed. 
As theres been no agreement to resolve the matter, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint  for much the same reasons as our investigator 
explained. Ill go over the key points.
Our general approach is that its an insurers responsibility to show, on balance, that an 
exclusion clause applies if they want to say a claim wont be successful. When Amtrust 
initially rejected the claim, their argument was about the old damage being linked to the new 
problem that the laptop has.
I find Amtrust didnt have enough evidence to reach that conclusion. They notably dont 
know what the current problem is with the laptop, so I cant see how thats linked to the 
incident that caused the crack in its casing. Its possible theres a link  but equally, its 
possible there isnt. And the fact Mrs A was using the laptop for some time after the event 
that cracked its case suggests the earlier incident hadnt affected the inner workings of the 
laptop too much. 
So I find it was unreasonable for Amtrust to have rejected the claim on the basis thered 
been a previous incident that damaged the laptop. They should have done more to see if the 
earlier damage  or whatever caused it  was linked to the current problem. 
Amtrusts position looks now to have changed slightly  to say the laptop wasnt in good 
condition when the policy began. But that term isnt formally defined in the policy, and is 
open to different interpretations. 
Here, the crack is to the side, not in the direct line of sight when looking at the screen. And  
according to Mrs A  its not affected the function of the laptop. The laptop didnt need to be 
immediately replaced just because of the crack. And to Mrs A, it was still valuable enough 
that she thought it worth paying to insure it.
As such, while the laptop wasnt perfect when it stopped working, I can see an argument to 
say it was still good enough to meet the good condition part of the policys terms. I find its 
unreasonable for Amtrust to use a subjective term like that to reject the claim. Particularly so, 
when they dont actually know whats wrong with the laptop, and how difficult it will be to fix. 
Amtrust have also mentioned that to repair the damage to the laptop they may need to repair 
the cosmetic damage to its case  and so cover the uninsured incident that caused the 
crack. And theyve speculated on whether the laptop will be economic to repair. But equally, 
it may be that the laptop can be easily fixed, and the existing case put back on it. We wont 
know until Amtrust carry out a reasonable inspection, and then fairly consider if an exclusion 
should apply. 
So I find Amtrust should do more to inspect and assess the damage to Mrs As laptop. They 
can then decide how to proceed, in line with a fair and reasonable application of the policys 
terms.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs As complaint about Amtrust Europe Limited. To put things right, Amtrust should 
carry out an inspection of her laptop computer  at their expense  to see if theres any 
evidence to support the use of a policy exclusion. If there isnt, then Amtrust should continue 
to settle the claim in a fair and reasonable way, under the terms of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman