DRN-3858382
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement Advantage Insurance Company Limited have offered to 
him following a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr Bs car was unfortunately involved in a collision. Mr B was driving the car, 
and at the time the collision happened, was sitting stationary at a set of traffic lights. The car 
being driven behind Mr Bs failed to stop, and therefore crashed into Mr Bs car. This in turn 
sent Mr Bs car into the stationary vehicle in front of his.
As a result of the above, Mr Bs car was damaged. So, he contacted Advantage, as his 
motor insurer, to make a claim under his policy.
Advantage considered Mr Bs claim and accepted it. Advantages engineer assessed the 
damage to the car and noted the cost of repairing the car was more than its value. So, 
Advantage deemed the vehicle a total loss.
Because the car was deemed a total loss, Advantage provided a cash offer to Mr B. This 
was initially £5,150.33. But on Mr B disputing this offer, Advantage increased the settlement 
figure offered to £5,750.
Mr B remained of the opinion this offer was a fair and reasonable settlement of his claim. 
Mr B explained he had looked at adverts for a car of the same make and model, which was 
of an equivalent specification to him, and within a radius of 25 miles from his home. And said 
he wasnt able to find a replacement for his vehicle for the sum offered to him. Mr B said that 
from his own research a fair offer would be between £6,800 and £7,200.
Advantage considered Mr Bs concerns but maintained its position on the matter. Advantage 
said it had arrived at its valuation by assessing standard industry guides which provide a 
value based on age, make, model and specification of the vehicle, as well as information 
such as the vehicle mileage. It said that looking at the trade guides, the average market 
value for Mr Bs car was £5,746. And as it had offered slightly more than this, at £5,750, it 
was satisfied its settlement offer was fair.
Mr B remained in disagreement with Advantages position on the matter. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator considered the Advantage had taken a fair and reasonable approach to the 
settlement of Mr Bs claim  by offering £5,750. So, he didnt recommend that Advantage do 
anything differently.
Mr B didnt agree. In summary, Mr B noted that the valuation provided didnt take into 
account regional variations in vehicle value, the rarity of a specific model or the mileage of 
his car. Mr B also said that he should be able to replace his written-off car, with the same 
one, from a respectable dealer.
Because Mr B disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the offer of £5,750 in settlement of the claim is fair. I do 
appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr B  its clear he feels strongly about the matter. 
But Ive explained my reasoning below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether 
Advantage acted in line with these requirements, when it agreed to settle Mr Bs claim, at 
£5,750.  
Ive reviewed Mr Bs policy documentation, to see what cover it provides  including what it 
says about settling claims. On doing so, Im aware that Mr Bs policy provides cover for 
damage to his car, caused because of an accident. 
The policy also explains that Advantage will either repair the car (or pay for it to be repaired), 
replace the car, or pay the Market Value of your car immediately before the loss.
Advantage has offered to pay the market value of the car. This being because Mr Bs car 
was declared a total loss. Given the policy allows Advantage to offer the market value, and 
this isnt unusual in instances of a total loss, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable 
approach for Advantage to take. 
The words Market Value are defined by the policy as follows:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This will not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
So, Im satisfied Advantage needed to base its settlement on the above. And reviewing the 
evidence provided to me, Im satisfied this is what Advantage has done.
Advantage reviewed trade guides when coming to its value. I appreciate Mr B feels these 
guides dont take into account particular details about his car  such as the low mileage. But 
Im satisfied the trade guides, and the value Advantage has arrived at, do take that into 
account. 
The trade guides base values on specific information, including make, model, age, 
specification, mileage and pre-less condition. This service tends to rely on the relevant trade 
guides for valuation too. Thats because as a service we dont value cars. I usually find these 
guides persuasive, as theyre based on nationwide research of prices. 
Advantage has offered £5,750 as the market value of Mr Bs car, minus the applicable policy 
excess. Having looked at four trade guides myself  Glass, Cazoo, CAP and Autotrader, I 
can see these valued Mr Bs car as between £5,135 and £6,355. And this was based on Mr Bs vehicles specification and mileage. As Advantages offer is within the range of these 
guides  at £5,750, and takes into account the necessary information, Im satisfied its a fair 
and reasonable valuation. So, I dont require Advantage to increase its valuation. 
Mr B has raised that he has looked within a 25 miles radius for a replacement of his car, for 
£5,750, and been unable to find this. And Mr B has provided evidence of this, from his 
searches on a car sales website. Looking at vehicles shown on this, these dont match the 
same specification as Mr Bs car  for example they are newer. And the policy terms are 
based on replacing the car in the United Kingdom  not within the radius Mr B has searched 
in. Given this, and I consider the offer provided by Advantage is fair, and in line with the 
terms of the policy, these points dont change the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the settlement offer of £5,750 made to Mr B is fair. 
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited hasnt already paid this to Mr B, it should now do 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman