DRN-1445071
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way in which The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
(RBS) handled their mortgage application.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr C had a financial review with RBS in relation to his personal banking. He 
and Mrs C had a mortgage with another lender which was coming to the end of its deal. Mr 
C said hed had a bad experience with RBS 22 years earlier on a mortgage application, so 
was reluctant to move his borrowing to the bank. But Mr and Mrs C wanted to remortgage in 
order to raise additional capital to consolidate other debts.
Mr C was on a zero hours contract, which would generally prevent the application from going 
forward, but the advisor raised an exception to allow the application to proceed. This meant 
that it would be considered in detail by an underwriter, bypassing the usual computerised 
assessment of affordability. Mr C was told that this wasnt a guarantee of lending.
The application didnt meet RBSs affordability criteria and so the underwriter needed the 
branch adviser to discuss this with Mr and Mrs C. Unfortunately, due to unforeseen 
circumstances, she was away from the office and as a result of an oversight, her work wasnt 
reassigned to another member of staff. 
The valuation on the property was carried out and Mr and Mrs C signed documents with the 
solicitors. They expected their new mortgage to start on 1 June 2019. On 7 June 2019 Mr C 
telephoned the solicitors, who said there was a problem with the mortgage. Mr C spoke to 
the advisor in the branch (who was now back at work). The following day Mr C was told that 
on 8 April 2019 the underwriter had emailed the advisor to say that affordability criteria 
hadnt been met. 
Mr and Mrs C complained. The bank acknowledged that its service had fallen short of the 
standard Mr and Mrs C should have received. RBS paid Mr and Mrs C £150 compensation 
for the trouble and upset theyd been caused. 
Dissatisfied with RBSs response, Mr and Mrs C complained to us. Mr C, who has dealt with 
the complaint throughout, didnt think this was sufficient. He explained that hes had to leave 
his mortgage with his existing lender and has instead taken out a personal loan for his debt 
consolidation. Mr C says that the £150 hes been paid is less than RBS offers new clients as 
an incentive to open an account.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He agreed that 
RBSs service hadnt been satisfactory, but though the £150 compensation the bank had 
paid was fair and reasonable.Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr C says they still feel very aggrieved at the way theyve been treated 
by RBS and so dont intend to let the matter rest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
The issue here is not that RBS turned down Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application. If Mr and 
Mrs C didnt meet RBSs lending criteria (and they did not), then RBS was entitled to decline 
to offer them a mortgage. The problem here is that it took RBS two months for RBS to let Mr  
and Mrs C know about this. 
This was due simply to human error, which I accept can happen in a busy work environment. 
But for two months Mr and Mrs C believed they would be getting a mortgage from RBS. Im 
satisfied that this caused them disappointment and upset. So what I need to decide is 
whether the £150 paid by RBS is fair and reasonable.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that £150 is fair compensation and is proportionate to 
the error made and the timescale involved. Given this, I dont intend to order RBS to pay any 
additional compensation.
I understand that, rather than look for a mortgage elsewhere, Mr and Mrs C decided to stay 
with their existing lender. They applied for a personal loan with RBS for debt consolidation. I 
accept what Mr C has said  that this loan is more expensive than if the debt had been 
consolidated into a new mortgage. But as they didnt qualify for a mortgage with RBS, I dont 
think it would be fair to expect the bank to cover the difference between what Mr and Mrs C 
would have paid if theyd qualified for the mortgage and the cost of the personal loan.. 
It was always open to Mr and Mrs C to try to arrange a mortgage with a different lender once 
they knew RBS wasnt going to be offering them a mortgage. I appreciate that, given Mr Cs 
employment situation, he might not meet the criteria for many lenders. But a mortgage 
broker would be able to advise Mr and Mrs C about the mortgage options available to them.
My final decision
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold 
this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the £150 compensation paid by The Royal Bank 
of Scotland plc is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I make no other order or 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman