DRN-4300321
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Cambrian Associates Limited (CAL) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
Mr P has also said that he was also unsuitably advised to withdraw tax free cash from the 
transferred sum.
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
Mr P met with an adviser from CAL to discuss his retirement planning needs. CAL then 
completed a fact find analysis to establish Mr Ps circumstances and financial objectives on 
25 August 2017. An assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk determined that Mr Ps risk 
appetite was defensive. The fact find also recorded the following about Mr P:
He was 56 years old, in good health, and married to Mrs P, aged 55, who was also in 
good health.
They had two financially non-dependent children.
Mr P was employed, earning £36,000 pa, plus potential bonuses of £2,000.
Mrs P was employed, earning £7,000 pa.
Joint net disposable income was £1,000 pm.
Their home was valued at around £200,000 and there was no mortgage outstanding.
They held cash deposits of £250,000.
Mr and Mrs P wanted to retire at age 58.
Mr P was contributing 6% and his employer was contributing 10% to the replacement 
group personal pension.
Mrs P was also contributing to her own pension plan.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) was completed on 19 October 2017 which set out a 
pension of £26,861 pa, with a critical yield (the required rate of return to match the scheme 
benefits) of 10.69% pa, at age 65. At age 58 a critical yield of over 50% was applicable. In 
comparison to the PPF, a critical yield of 4.52% applied to age 65, with 18.75% applicable at 
age 58.
CAL issued a suitability report on 21 October 2017. It recommended that Mr P transfer his 
defined benefits to a Prudential PPP and invest in the PruFund Cautious Fund. CAL 
recorded that Mr P had the following objectives, which formed the basis of its reasons for 
recommending the transfer:
Flexibility in retirement to be able to reduce pension income once Mr and Mrs Ps 
state pensions commence, along with other another deferred pension held by Mr P 
Mrs Ps own pension provision.
A Retirement Modeller was produced on 25 October 2017 and Mr P signed a Prudential 
application on 27 October 2017, accepting CALs recommendation.
Mr P complained to CAL on 4 October 2022, raising concerns that the advice was
unsuitable for the following reasons:
He had lost valuable guarantees which may lead to him being financially worse off in
retirement.
He wasnt advised to use his defined contributions for early retirement and that
leaving his BSPS pension to age 65 would have not incurred penalties.
He wasnt informed of the option to stay in the BSPS.
The advice to take 25% tax free cash was unsuitable.
CAL declined to uphold Mr Ps complaint, saying the transfer recommendation was suitable. 
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests. 
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rates for one year to retirement and eight years to retirement were 2.5% 
and 3.5% respectively and, taking into account Mr Ps attitude to risk, along with the 
regulators low, mid and high rate growth projections (2%/5%/8%), and the 5.5% pa growth rate used in the income modeller, it was unlikely that the scheme benefits 
could be bettered through transferring.
Mr Ps prior history had been risk averse  repaying his mortgage and accumulating 
cash deposits of £250,000. Mr P had also indicated in the risk profiling exercise that 
he strongly disagreed with the prospect of feeling comfortable with stock market 
investment, and also strongly disagreed with the statement that he was a financial 
risk taker. A transfer to a risk based environment wasnt therefore aligned to Mr Ps 
risk attitude, nor in his best interests
Any desire to leave a lump sum legacy for his family could have been met, risk free, 
by accessing benefits in the PPF and taking the tax free sum lump sum of £112,053, 
alongside the considerable amount held in savings. There were also important 
benefits, such as the guaranteed, escalating spouses pension, which would have 
been payable to Mrs P in the event of Mr Ps death.
Mr P could also have relied upon their savings for the required income before 
accessing his BSPS benefits.
Any concerns Mr P had about the future of the scheme should have been 
appropriately managed by CAL  and even if the scheme needed to move into the 
PPF, it should have been explained that this still represented important guaranteed 
benefits. Based upon the critical yields, a PPP was unlikely to match the benefits Mr 
P would receive from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
CAL hadnt clearly demonstrated that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests and 
there was no compelling need for Mr P to transfer.
The investigator recommended that CAL undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with regulators policy statement PS22/13, and as set out in the regulators handbook in 
DISP App 4  and on the basis that Mr P would have opted to join the PPF. Mr P had 
already begun accessing his pension benefits at 58, and so this should be used as his actual 
retirement age.
If the redress was paid directly to Mr P, CAL could make a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He also said that CAL should pay Mr P £200 in respect of the trouble and upset that the 
matter would have caused him.
Neither party submitted any further comments in response to the investigators assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of B's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a DB pension 
transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CAL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which CAL was required to carry out by the regulator said that the 
critical yield - how much Mr Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 10.69% to 
match the benefits hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. To match 
them at 58, the critical yield was over 50%. And to match the PPF benefits, these 
were 4.52% and 18.75% respectively.
Given Mr Ps recorded defensive attitude to risk, the discount rate of between 2.5% 
and 3.5% between ages 58 and 65, and the regulators low projection rate for growth 
(2% pa) which I think would be relevant for his attitude to risk, I think Mr P was more 
likely than not to receive pension benefits, from either age 58 or 65, of a lower value 
that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS 2 or the PPF by transferring 
and investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his family, the 
priority here was to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement. While the 
CETV figure may have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, Mr and Mrs P 
had significant cash savings and, as set out by the investigator, this could have been 
enhanced by Mr P accessing the tax free cash from his BSPS benefits if required. A 
transferred lump sum would also be dependent on investment performance, and so 
may not have provided the legacy that Mr P may have thought it would. Mrs P would 
also be denied the guaranteed, escalating 50% spouses pension which would 
otherwise have been provided by the scheme for the rest of her life, not to mention 
the five year guaranteed period of full payment after the pension had begun to be 
paid.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. There was no identified need for a lump sum in the event of Mr Ps death, given Mr and Mrs Ps likely situation in 
retirement (substantial cash savings and no mortgage) and the financial 
independence of their children. 
My view is that CAL shouldnt have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for 
alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his own security in 
retirement.
Mr P may have had concerns about the pension scheme and the prospect of it 
entering the PPF. But it was CALs role to objectively address those concerns. At the 
time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS 2 being established. But even if 
not, the PPF would still provide Mr P with guaranteed income and the option of 
accessing tax-free cash. And on the basis that Mr P was intending on retiring early, 
there were in any case advantages to transferring into the PPF. As set out by the 
investigator, given the critical yields and Mr Ps attitude to risk, Mr P was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about 
this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Ps best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. 
And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr P would have insisted on 
transferring, against advice to remain in the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr P received 
from CAL was unsuitable.
Ive also considered the additional aspect of Mr Ps complaint relating to what he considers 
to have been the recommendation to take tax free cash at age 58. But I can see from the 
suitability report that it wasnt envisaged that Mr P would either need, or take, a large tax free 
cash lump sum, and instead would manage his income requirements tax efficiently by taking 
smaller amounts as a combination of tax free cash and income.
I also cant see that there was any subsequent recommendation that Mr P access his 
benefits for the sole purpose of taking tax free cash, as then happened in 2018.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would more 
likely than not have remained in the occupational pension scheme and, given the expected 
advantages of the PPF on the basis of planned early retirement, opted to join the PPF if 
suitable advice had been given.
Cambrian Associates Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Cambrian Associates Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.Mr P retired and began accessing his pension benefits when he was 58. And so the 
calculation should be undertaken on the basis of retirement at that age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Cambrian Associates Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts Cambrian Associates Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Cambrian Associates Limited to pay Mr P the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Cambrian Associates Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Cambrian Associates Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr P could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
I also agree with the investigator that Cambrian Associates Limited should pay Mr P £200. I 
think its likely that hell have experienced not inconsiderable levels of concern over this 
matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Cambrian Associates Limited to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman