DRN-2431974
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mrs R applied for the PPI in November 1998 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Mrs Rs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that 
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mrs R returned to work.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. Having done so, I think Mrs Rs 
complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs R, so it didnt have to check it was suitable for her. 
But it did need to give her enough about the policy, so she could decide whether it was right 
for her or not. 
AXA has provided a copy of the application form Mrs R completed for her store card. Mrs R 
opted to take PPI on this form. But, based on what Ive seen, I dont think AXA gave her 
clear enough information about the cost and benefits payable under the policy. 
The description of the PPI on the application form doesnt explain that the premium would be 
added to Mrs Rs store card balance and that it could attract interest. I also cant see that it 
would have been clear to Mrs R that she had to continue paying the premiums if she was 
making a successful claim. That means the benefit of 15% was actually less in real terms.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs R because she says she was entitled to six months 
full pay, followed by six months half pay if she was off sick from work. She says she had a 
redundancy package if she lost her job. And that she had at least three months worth of 
savings she could have used to make her repayments if necessary.
AXA says, based on Mrs Rs length of employment, it cant be certain she would have 
received the level of sick pay she says she would. It also asked how much she had in 
savings and whether they were accessible. 
Ive thought about whether I think its likely Mrs R had the level of sick pay she says she did, 
considering the industry she worked in, the job title she held and her length of employment. 
Its not unusual for an employer in the industry Mrs R worked in to offer generous sick pay to 
its employees even though she had only worked there for one year at the time of sale. Mrs R 
has been consistent in what shes said. So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs R would 
have received as much sick pay as shes said. 
Mrs R has confirmed she held at least £3,000 in accessible savings. Based on her salary at 
the time, which shes told us was around £15,000, I think her savings would have lasted her 
for at least three months. So, considering Mrs Rs employee benefits and the savings she 
says she had, I think its more likely than not that she would have been able to meet her 
credit card repayments for a while without the policy.
So, I dont think Mrs R would have bought the policy if AXA had made it clear how much it 
would cost her, and I think Mrs R has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs R would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs R owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs R would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs R would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs R 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs R would 
have owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs R what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman