DRN-2863644
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money said she didnt meet the 
criteria for a further advance she wanted in order to consolidate her debts.
Shes also unhappy that she was told Virgin Money wouldnt apply an early repayment 
charge (ERC) if she extended her mortgage term, but would do so if she did a full internal 
remortgage, ending her existing fixed rate mortgage early.
What happened
Mrs I already had her mortgage with Virgin Money on a fixed rate product; it was fixed at 
2.24% until 31 October 2023. Under the terms of that product if she ended the mortgage 
early then shed incur an ERC.
Mrs I wanted to borrow more money to consolidate her debts. Originally Virgin Money looked 
at a further advance, but even if the term of the existing mortgage was extended to decrease 
the monthly payments it still came up as unaffordable, so that wasnt an option.
Rather than just tell Mrs I Virgin Money couldnt help, the adviser looked at an alternative 
option. Virgin Moneys affordability criteria varies for different products and types of 
application, so he discussed with Mrs I the option to do a full internal remortgage onto a new 
five-year fixed rate product. He said that might be successful, but in order for it to be done 
Mrs I would need to pay the ERC on her current mortgage upfront; she couldnt add it to the 
new mortgage debt.
Mrs I complained to Virgin Money. She said it wasnt fair that Virgin Money would charge her 
the ERC if she did a full internal remortgage, but wouldnt do so if she just extended the 
term. Virgin Money didnt uphold her complaint.
Our investigator said Virgin Money hadnt done anything wrong He said Mrs I had entered 
into a contract with an ERC so Virgin Money could fairly charge that if she chose to end it 
early. Mrs I disagreed and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I appreciate Mrs I feels Virgin Money is being unfair. But it isnt my role to tell lenders 
whether  and on what basis - to lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to 
ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement 
for the banks. 
Virgin Money first looked at whether it could give Mrs I a further advance on her existing 
mortgage. Mrs Is existing mortgage would have had the term extended to reduce her 
monthly payments to help the affordability calculation. The product for the existing mortgage 
would have been left as it was; that is, on a rate that was fixed at 2.24% until 31 October 
2023, and the further advance would have been lent at a different interest rate.
Unfortunately, even with the original mortgage term extended, Mrs I didnt meet Virgin 
Moneys affordability criteria and so that option couldnt be taken forward.
To try to assist Mrs I, the adviser suggested an alternative option; a full internal remortgage. 
By this we mean that Mrs Is existing mortgage would be fully repaid, and replaced with one 
larger mortgage that encompassed her original debt and the extra amount she wanted to 
borrow. But, because the existing mortgage would be closed down, Mrs I would have to pay 
an ERC for coming out of her existing fixed rate product early. The adviser still couldnt say 
whether or not it was likely to be agreed by the underwriting team, but he put it forward as an 
option if Mrs I wanted to pursue it.
The mortgage adviser went beyond what he needed to do to try to help Mrs I. He could just 
have said her request for a further advance was unsuccessful as it failed the affordability 
checks, and left it at that. Instead he looked into this other option and presented it to Mrs I for 
her consideration; that isnt something he needed to do.
Mrs I has questioned why the ERC wouldnt be paid if the term was extended, but would be 
if she undertook a full internal remortgage. The ERC is linked to the mortgage product. If 
Mrs I just extended the term of her mortgage  for example, from 20 years to 25 years  she 
wouldnt be changing the underlying interest rate; that is, she would still be on her fixed rate 
of 2.24% until 31 October 2023. The mortgage term doesnt change that, and so no ERC 
would be due as the fixed rate product hasnt been stopped before 31 October 2023. 
However, if Mrs I undertook a full internal remortgage, as part of that her existing fixed rate 
would be stopped before 31 October 2023 as it would be replaced with a new fixed rate 
product. It doesnt matter that the new product would have been charged at a higher rate.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for its mortgage customers (both 
new and existing) on the wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs in the 
form of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money its borrowed. If a mortgage 
product is ended early, it doesnt get that interest, and so doesnt make back the costs in 
raising the funds to offer that preferential rate.
One final point I feel I should correct. Mrs I has said that if Virgin Money had agreed to this it 
would have had more security, as she intended to repay a secured loan she held with a 
different provider. But thats not the case. As things stood Virgin Money had a first charge on 
Mrs Is property with a mortgage debt of around £113,000. If Virgin Money had agreed to 
lend Mrs I more money then she would instead have had a mortgage debt of around 
£161,000 with it. That increases Virgin Moneys risk, it doesnt give it more security. Virgin 
Money had the first charge which meant it would get its money back (if the house was 
repossessed) before the second charge lender, so there was no issue with Virgin Moneys 
security such that it would want to take over the second charge debt.
Virgin Money didnt do anything wrong in not agreeing to take Mrs Is proposal for a 
standalone further advance forward. It also did nothing wrong in putting forward the potential 
option of a full internal remortgage, on the understanding Mrs I would have to pay the ERC 
for her existing mortgage product. Having considered everything, there are no grounds for 
me to order Virgin Money to waive the ERC or to pay any compensation to Mrs I.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs I to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman