DRN-2309352
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way C.C. Flint and Company Limited dealt with the sale and 
renewal of his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D is a sole trader providing architectural and structural services. He had an insurance 
policy providing cover for professional liability. He originally bought this policy in 2015, when 
it was sold to him by Flint, and then renewed it through them each year.
In late 2018 Flint contacted the insurer on Mr Ds behalf about a dispute he had with one of 
his clients. After considering this, the insurer asked some questions about the nature of 
Mr Ds work  in particular asking whether he was an architect or a structural engineer. The 
insurer asked Flint to get more information about some of Mr Ds contracts.
When it received the information, the insurer said the nature of Mr Ds work meant that he 
was a structural engineer and it wouldnt be able to offer cover for him. Mr D was asked to 
find a policy with another insurer. The insurer said it would continue to cover him while he 
did this.
Flint obtained a quote from another insurer, but Mr D found a policy through a different 
provider. The insurer then cancelled the policy with effect from 14 February 2019 and 
refunded some of his premiums.
Mr D contacted the insurer to make a claim on the policy as hed received a letter of claim 
from his client. His claim was rejected as it was made after the policy had ended. Mr D 
complained about that decision, which Im considering separately. Hes also brought this 
complaint about Flint. He says he provided accurate information to Flint but their actions led 
to his policy being cancelled and his claim declined. Hes been supported in his complaint by 
his solicitors.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the fact his claim was rejected doesnt 
mean there was anything wrong with the way the policy was sold to him. She thought Mr D 
had failed to accurate information and if there was a discrepancy in the information provided, 
Mr D should have pointed this out; and even if Flint had asked him about it he would have 
given the same answer again.
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision 
saying I did not intend to uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Mr D bought his policy through Flint and then renewed it through them each year. The way 
the process usually works is that Flint should gather all the information the insurer needs and 
pass it to the insurer, who uses it to decide whether to offer cover and if so, what terms to 
apply. The insurer relies on the information being accurate.
Mr Ds solicitors say Flint has been fully aware of the service Mr D provides from the start 
and, as his broker, it was their responsibility to communicate the position accurately. They 
say if accurate information wasnt provided, the fault lies with Flint and not Mr D. Flint 
disagrees. So the key issue for me to decide is whether Flint simply passed on to the insurer 
the information it received from Mr D or alternatively, if Mr D provided accurate information to 
Flint and it made a mistake, passing on incorrect information to the insurer.
To decide this Ive looked carefully at what Mr D was asked to do, and the information he 
provided.
When he took out his policy, and at each renewal, Mr D was asked to provide information 
about his work, and was provided with a copy of a Risk Profile with a summary of this. That 
document set out the duties on him to provide accurate information and asked him to check 
that the information hed provided was correct. Mr D confirmed the information provided, and 
Flint passed this on to the insurer.
Mr D says the information he gave was accurate. In particular, he refers to the fact he was 
asked to confirm that hes not a civil/structural engineer. He said he wasnt, and says this 
was correct as hes not a qualified engineer. Even if that is, strictly, correct, he was also 
asked to confirm that he acts purely as a professional consultant and does not undertake 
any construction work, including as a design and build contractor. And the information 
provided later showed that he undertook structural services.
Mr Ds solicitors argue Flint was aware of the nature of his work, and the insurer couldnt 
claim not to know that someone who provides architectural services would also provide 
structural services. The insurer cancelled Mr Ds policy because, although it provides cover 
for professionals, including architects and someone providing building services, its standard 
approach is to not to cover civil & structural engineers. It may provide cover for an engineer 
who only provides professional consultancy services, but not if their work involves 
standalone works or design and build contracts with a civil or structural component. And it 
said the information provided by Flint showed Mr D was carrying out this type of work.
Mr D disputes this. But that doesnt seem consistent with details of contracts he provided. 
And Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr D had with the broker where hes asked about 
his work and he confirms that he does structural engineering. The call related specifically to 
the question in the proposal where he was asked to confirm he is not an engineer, which he 
had answered Yes. When Mr D confirmed he does engineering, the call handler said he 
would change that answer to No. Mr D didnt dispute that.
I note that the confirmation of insurance letter Flint sent to Mr D in 2015 referred to 
Business Description: Architect & Structural Engineer. This isnt entirely in line with the 
information recorded on the risk profile, where Mr D said he wasnt an engineer. I agree Flint 
could have checked this with Mr D. But there was a duty on Mr D to provide accurate 
information. Hes been clear that he isnt a qualified architect or engineer and, if he felt it 
wasnt accurate to describe his work in this way, he could have clarified that. In any event, 
Mr D has since confirmed that he does carry out engineering work.
Flint says it never suggested Mr D was a qualified architect or structural engineer. And it 
says the statement of fact was Mr Ds own submission of his activities, which he checked 
before each renewal and again once he accepted the renewal.
Looking through all the information I have, it seems to me that when it first sold the policy 
and again at each renewal, Flint asked Mr D to provide information about the type of work he 
did. It then provided a copy of the risk profile, which set out a summary of the information, 
asked him to check it was accurate, and then simply passed on to the insurer what Mr D 
provided. When questions arose about the nature of Mr Ds work, the insurer asked Flint to clarify this. Again, Flint asked Mr D for details and then passed that on to the insurer. I cant 
see that Flint omitted or altered any of the information Mr D had provided.
Replies to the provisional decision
Flint has not provided further comments in reply to the provisional decision but Mr Ds 
solicitors have commented. In summary, they say:
The provisional decision suggests Mr D first bought insurance through Flint in 2015, 
but it was in fact 2010, when it sold him a policy with another insurer.
Flint then introduced Mr D to a second insurer in 2014. The information from that sale 
set out that he needed architectural and structural cover and the policy documents 
said he carried out architectural and engineering services.
So Flint was always aware of the nature of the services Mr D provided.
The insurer who provided the policy in question here did not ask Mr D to provide 
details of the type of work he carried out when setting up this policy; it just took and 
used the information Flint provided. Mr D had no choice but to assume the relevant 
information had been passed on to the insurer.
Mr D was asked whether he was an engineer and answered that question correctly. If 
hed been asked Do you provide engineering services? he would of course have 
said Yes.
Over the years Mr D had always spelt out exactly what work and services he 
provides and its very upsetting that despite doing this, he was denied cover when he 
needed it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds solicitors say the provisional decision incorrectly says Mr D only had insurance 
through Flint from 2010 when hed bought insurance through them since 2010. I appreciate 
he had had cover before 2010, but that was with different insurers. He first bought this policy 
with this insurer in 2015 and then renewed it in the following years. Ive considered the 
information about his earlier policies, though in this complaint my focus is on the information 
provided for the sale and renewal of this policy.
I accept Mr D had said that he needed architectural and structural cover, and had said he 
carried out architectural and engineering services. As I explained in the provisional decision, 
the policy did provide cover for services like this  but only for consultancy services, not if 
the work involves standalone works, or design and build contracts with a civil or structural 
component. When Mr D said he wasnt an engineer that was, strictly, true. But that wasnt 
the only question asked. He was also asked to confirm that he acts purely as a professional 
consultant and does not undertake any construction work, including as a design and build 
contractor. 
So the insurer did ask for information about the type of work he did. I agree the insurer took 
and used the information Flint provided. That was the information Flint had received from 
Mr D and, based on what Ive seen, Flint simply passed on the information; it didnt alter or 
add to it. So if the information wasnt accurate that wasnt due to Flints actions. I dont think 
this was a situation where Mr D provided accurate information to Flint and it then made a 
mistake, passing on incorrect information to the insurer.Ive considered the additional comments carefully but I dont think they provide any new 
information that leads me to change my provisional decision. So it remains my view that the 
complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman