DRN-2352888
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement from Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality, contrary to the 
requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to acquire a 
used car. The car was first registered in July 2017, and had a recorded mileage of some 
15,000 miles when Mr R acquired it.
According to the hire purchase agreement, the cash price of the car was £25,004. It says   
Mr R paid an advance payment of £2,681, and agreed to pay 48 monthly payments of 
£384.07 each. If he then wanted to buy the car he would have to pay a final payment of 
£11,495.
In May 2020, Mr R booked his car into a main dealer for this make of car, whom Ill call MD. 
MD replaced a sensor, and when the car was returned to Mr R he could hear a clicking noise 
from the brakes which wasnt there before.
MD arranged a test drive, but said it couldnt hear the noise. Mr R sent MD a recording he 
had made of the noise. MD contacted the manufacturer. In June MD told Mr R that the 
manufacturer was saying the noise wasnt a fault, but was a characteristic of the car. So 
there wasnt anything that could be done to stop it.
Mr R was concerned. He didnt accept that the noise was a normal characteristic when it 
wasnt present before MD replaced the sensor, and MD initially said it couldnt hear the 
noise. He felt unsafe in the car, and used it less than he had previously. He was worried that 
if he handed the car back after four years, a fault might be diagnosed for which VWFS would 
hold him responsible. He went so far as to take out an extended warranty to try to protect 
himself.
VWFS said MD maintained there wasnt a fault with the car. But as a gesture of goodwill, 
VWFS would allow Mr R to voluntarily terminate the hire purchase agreement by handing it 
back and would waive a figure in excess of £7,000 which would normally have been payable 
for this under the agreement.
VWFS processed the voluntary termination on this basis at the end of August 2020. Mr R 
wanted it also to refund the advance payment he had made, but it wouldnt agree to this. So 
he complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), a vehicle must be of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. This, among other things, takes into consideration safety, appearance and 
durability. The goods must also be fit for purpose.
To show that Mr Rs car was of unsatisfactory quality when delivered, evidence was needed 
to show that the noise Mr R experienced was present or developing when he acquired it, as 
opposed to the fault arising from general wear and tear or being a vehicle characteristic.
When, as here, the fault occurred outside the first six months of Mr Rs ownership, the
responsibility fell on the consumer (Mr R) to provide evidence that clearly indicated that
the problem was present or developing before he acquired the car in February 2019. Mr R
had confirmed that the car had no issues in the first year, and that he believed the issue 
occurred over a year after delivery. Mr R had covered almost 10,000 miles in this time.
There was nothing in the cars vehicle history provided by the manufacturer to show any 
previous indication of the issue. So under CRA, the onus was on Mr R to provide 
independent evidence linking the noise back to the time he acquired the car. No such 
evidence was available, and Mr R had now handed back the car. In addition, the 
manufacturer was saying the noise wasnt a fault but a characteristic of the car.
On balance, the investigator couldnt say the car had a fault which was present or 
developing at the time of delivery. So he couldnt say VWFS had done anything wrong, or 
should now do anything more.
Mr R responded to say, in summary, that:
MD had provided conflicting information about the noise  first it couldnt hear it, then 
it could but it was a normal characteristic;
the noise only appeared after MD replaced the faulty sensor; and
he would have provided an independent report, if he had known this was needed, 
before he returned the car, but he wasnt told this when he first brought this 
complaint to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Mr R to be able to establish a claim against VWFS which I can consider, on the facts I 
have described, he needs to show that on the date it was delivered to him it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and/or fit for purpose. The investigator has correctly explained that at this 
point in time the onus of doing this is on Mr R.
VWFS maintains that there is no fault  the noise is a normal characteristic; and Mr R hasnt 
provided any independent evidence to contradict this and to show a fault was present at 
delivery. So I cant say that VWFS is at fault under CRA, or should do anything more than it 
has already done.
Mr R suggests the noise may be the result of a faulty repair of the sensor by MD. Again, I 
havent seen any independent evidence to support this. But even if this were the case this 
would be a matter between Mr R and MD, which is outside our jurisdiction. VWFS wouldnt 
have any responsibility for this.
Mr R says he should have been told earlier in the process of bringing his complaint to us, 
and before he parted with the car, that an independent report would be required. However, 
as the investigator has said, it was only when the investigator came to look into the 
circumstances of the complaint, and what evidence Mr R might need to support his 
complaint, that the issue of a report arose, and by then Mr R had returned the car to VWFS.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman