DRN-3631406
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled his 
home insurance claim for items stolen in a burglary.
What happened
Mr B had a Lloyds home insurance policy. In January 2022, Mr Bs home was broken into 
and items were stolen, including several pieces of jewellery. Mr B reported the burglary to 
Lloyds and made a claim for the stolen items on his contents insurance.
Lloyds settled Mr Bs claim in March 2022. Mr B wasnt totally happy and complained about 
its offers for two of these items:
A diamond engagement ring with a gold band. Lloyds offered £399.
A watch. Lloyds offered £2,282.
Mr B was unhappy with these offers and complained to Lloyds. He said both the stone and 
the band on the engagement ring were of higher carat than Lloyds suggested, and his watch 
was insured for £3,500.
Lloyds said its supplier priced the engagement ring against the nearest equivalent to the ring 
in a photo Mr B had provided. Without further proof of the band and diamond carat size, it 
wouldnt increase its offer. It also said it couldnt replace the watch due to its age. Instead, it 
offered him a cash voucher for the nearest equivalent watch, reduced by its supplier 
discount. Lloyds accepted that its delays settling his claim amounted to poor service and 
offered Mr B £150 to apologise for this.
Mr B was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Lloyds to 
increase its offers for the ring and the watch.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Lloyds offers for the ring and watch were in line with the policy terms and were 
fair. She was also satisfied that Lloyds £150 offer for delays in settling Mr Bs claim was fair.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Page 43 of Mr Bs policy sets out How we settle claims under your Contents covers:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts available.
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage. 
Lloyds offered Mr B the cost of replacement for the ring and watch, less any applicable 
supplier discount. It based its offer for the ring on the expert opinion of its supplier, and the 
offer for the watch on the closest equivalent watch it could find. Im satisfied that the way 
Lloyds came up with these settlement offers was in line with the policy terms.
Ive looked at Lloyds offers for each item in more detail below.
The engagement ring
Mr B sent Lloyds a photo of the engagement ring. He couldnt provide any other evidence 
about its value. I understand the ring is over 25 years old so I can understand why Mr B 
might not still have a receipt or other documents for it. 
Lloyds told us its expert validated the ring as a 9ct gold band with a 15pt diamond. Mr B 
believes the ring was an 18ct gold band with a larger diamond, however in the absence of 
any other evidence, Im satisfied that Lloyds offer was based on its experts opinion and is 
fair.
The watch
Mr Bs policy schedule shows the cover limit for individual high risk items was £3,000. His 
watch is listed under Specified items with a cover limit of £3,500. Lloyds explained that Mr 
Bs watch was insured up to the value specified on the policy. This is common in contents 
insurance and I think is made clear by the word limit in the policy documents.
The receipt Mr B provided for the watch shows he bought it second-hand for £1,450 in July 
2018. Lloydss internal notes confirm this.
Lloyds told us it based its offer on a watch of the same make and similar specification to Mr 
Bs stolen watch, with a retail value of £3,220. It reduced this by the supplier discount 
available. As Ive said above, this was in line with the policy terms. 
Mr B sent us a link to a similar watch for sale at £3,400. This appears to be the most recent 
version of his old watch. He only saw this after Lloyds made its offer so I understand why 
Lloyds might not have used the same watch for comparison. However, I dont think this 
means Lloyds offer was unfair. The value of Mr Bs proposed replacement is close to the 
value of the watch Lloyds used, and of similar specifications.
Ive also looked at the current second-hand market for Mr Bs make and model watch. This 
shows several watches advertised for sale at between £1,200 and £2,300. So I think if Mr B 
wanted to buy a direct replacement for his stolen watch, hed be able to do this for the sum 
Lloyds offered him. 
Given the above, I think Lloyds offer of £2,282 for Mr Bs watch is fair.
Excess
Mr Bs policy schedule shows that his policy excess was £100. However, theres a special 
condition set out on page 3 of the schedule. This says: Where any of the following cover is 
shown in your policy schedule, your excess will increase by £250 for each claim.. This 
means Mr Bs excess for a claim on his contents insurance was £350. 
I understand why Mr B would be unhappy at having to pay a £350 excess, however Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with the policy terms when it applied this to Mr Bs claim.
Settlement delays
Finally, Mr B was unhappy with the time it took Lloyds to settle his claim. He first reported 
the theft on 26 January 2022. Lloyds made its final settlement offer, via its supplier, on 22 
March 2022.
I see from Lloyds internal notes that there were discussions between Lloyds and its agents, 
including its jewellery supplier, about Mr Bs claim. I think most of these discussions and the 
time it took to resolve them were normal for this type of claim. However, I can also see that 
there were some delays with Lloyds agents failing to follow up with Mr B as agreed. Lloyds 
accepted this and offered Mr B £150 to apologise. I think this offer was fair and in line with 
what this service might award in similar circumstances.
For the reasons above, I think Lloyds settlement offers for the engagement ring and watch 
were fair. I also think the compensation Lloyds offered Mr B for delays in settling his claim 
was fair. I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman