DRN-2879509
The complaint
H, a limited company complains that Santander UK Plc failed to let it know it would incur a 
charge when depositing cash in branch. 
H wants Santander to either refund the charge or allow it to withdraw the money free of 
charge to deposit elsewhere.
What happened
In October 2020, H deposited £17,500 cash in branch. H was unhappy when Santander 
charged it a fee of £145. It didnt think a bank would charge someone to make a deposit 
when this gave the bank the chance to earn more money through investment.
Santander said that H had exceeded its monthly free cash deposit limit of £3,000 so a 
charge was applied in line with the terms of its account.
The investigator didnt recommend that Hs complaint be upheld. 
H is unhappy as it is a small company that has never previously deposited more than £3,000 
at any one time. H thinks that Santander shouldve made it aware of the charge at the time, 
so it couldve decided not to make the deposit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint H, but I dont find that Santander made a mistake. The key terms of 
Hs bank account say that the account is free from a monthly account fee, and certain 
transaction fees, provided you stay within the following monthly cash deposit and transaction 
limits: Free monthly cash deposit limit  up to £3,000. Additional cash deposit fee per £100 
above limit £1.00.
Im satisfied that H deposited £17,500 in October 2020. As this was £14,500 over the £3,000 
free monthly cash deposit limit, Santander correctly charged H £1 for every £100 over the 
free limit. As Santander needs to make sure if correctly calculates the charge, its reasonable 
to issue the notice about the fees at the end of the statement period.
I appreciate that H thinks the cashier shouldve checked whether it wanted to go ahead with 
the deposit considering the charge, but I wouldnt reasonably expect the cashier to know that 
a fee might apply. I dont consider I can fairly hold Santander responsible for the fact that H 
wasnt aware of the key terms of its account which it wouldve been given upon opening its 
account.
I should also say that many banks charge their business customers a fee to deposit cash. 
This means I dont find that Santander shouldve done more to bring this to Hs attention 
before it decided to make the deposit.
The investigator has already told H that if it wants to withdraw the money from its account, it 
can make a free faster payment transfer with a limit of £100,000 per payment. I leave it with 
H to decide whether to take this step.
Overall, I dont find that Santander made a mistake, so I dont require it to refund the charge.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman