DRN-4162991
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Euroins AD hasnt settled a claim they made under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G booked a trip abroad for their family in September 2021. The trip was due to 
take place between 20 and 30 March 2022. Mr and Mrs G took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy to cover that trip on 29 January 2022.
Unfortunately, on 5 February 2022 Mr and Mrs Gs close relative was taken to the hospital, 
and he passed away on 20 February 2022. Mr and Mrs G cancelled their trip and made a 
claim for the costs to Euroins.
Euroins asked Mr and Mrs G for evidence in support of their claim. In its final response, 
Euroins said that it still needed a fully completed medical certificate from a GP, so that it can 
confirm the condition(s)/cause of death wasnt known about when purchasing the policy. As 
there was information missing from the form the GP completed, Euroins said it couldnt 
validate the claim. Mr and Mrs G dont think Euroins is acting fairly or reasonably, and 
theyve suffered another loss in the family.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, she thought 
Euroins had acted fairly and reasonably in asking for evidence in support of the claim. But 
she didnt think it was reasonable for it to ask for evidence relating to the condition that was 
listed in part II of the death certificate  instead, it should only ask for evidence relating to the 
condition(s) that were listed in part I.
Mrs and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators findings, and Euroins didnt respond. As 
no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I then issued a 
provisional decision in May 2023. Heres what I said:
Im sorry to hear about the difficult times Mr and Mrs G have experienced due to losses in 
the family. Naturally, having to deal with an insurance claim wouldve been stressful in the 
circumstances.
Firstly, its for policyholders to show they have a valid claim. And insurers are entitled to ask 
for reasonable evidence in support of that claim. This is also set out in Mr and Mrs Gs policy 
terms and conditions on page 11:
1.You must cooperate with us and provide us with any documentation or information we 
ask for, to evaluate your claim or to seek reimbursement from a third party.
[]
3.If we require any medical certificates, information, evidence and receipts, these must be 
obtained by you at your expense.
But Ive also looked to see if the evidence Euroins is asking for is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy say on page 3, under the heading 
Important information the following:
NON-TRAVELLING RELATIVES
This policy will NOT cover any claims under Cancellation or Curtailment arising directly or 
indirectly from any medical condition known to you prior to the start of your period of 
insurance, and before booking your trip affecting any close relative, travel companion, or 
person you are going to stay with on your trip if:
a terminal prognosis had been received; or
if they were on a waiting-list for, or had knowledge of the need for, surgery, inpatient 
treatment or investigation at any hospital; or if during the 90 days immediately prior to 
the start of the period of insurance they had:
required surgery, inpatient treatment or hospital consultations; or
required any form of treatment or prescribed medication.
This is also stated on page 6 under the Cancellation and Curtailment section:
What you are NOT covered for
7. any claims arising directly or indirectly from any medical condition affecting a non-
travelling relative if;
a terminal prognosis had been received; or
if they were on a waiting-list for, or had knowledge of the need for, surgery, inpatient 
treatment or investigation at any hospital; or
if during the 90 days immediately prior to the start of the period of insurance they had:
required surgery, inpatient treatment or hospital consultations; or
required any form of treatment or prescribed medication.
The relevant death certificate sets out the immediate, direct cause of death in part I(a), and 
condition that led to death in part I(b). Part II of the death certificate sets out the conditions 
that contributed to the death but didnt directly cause it.
Euroins has specifically asked for a medical certificate completed by a GP in relation to one 
of the conditions set out in part II of the death certificate. Unlike our investigator, Im minded 
to say that this is fair and reasonable. 
I say this because the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy say that a claim isnt 
covered when it arises directly or indirectly from a medical condition affecting a non-
travelling relative. Because of this, I think the conditions listed on part II are also relevant as 
this sets out the conditions that contributed to the death.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think 
Euroins has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it said it needs further medical evidence 
before accepting the claim.
Neither party has given me anything new to consider following my provisional decision, but 
Im satisfied both parties have had the opportunity to do so. And as the deadline to provide 
further information has now passed, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any new information to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same decision, 
for the same reasons.
Overall, I dont think Euroins has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman