DRN-2428314
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were misled by the mortgage advisers at Yorkshire Building 
Society about how its overpayments system worked. Mr and Mrs C want Yorkshire either to 
allow them to make overpayments and maintain their usual payments or to let them change 
the mortgage with no fees together with compensation for the stress they suffered.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage with Yorkshire and enquired about a ten-year fixed rate 
product that Yorkshire offered. Mr C had a phone appointment with a Yorkshire adviser on 7 
August 2018 after which Yorkshire issued a product transfer offer which Mr and Mrs C 
accepted. The fixed rate product allowed Mr and Mrs C to make overpayments of up to 10% 
per annum.
About a year later  the end of August 2019, Mr C contacted a Yorkshire adviser about 
making overpayments and the effect this would have on the mortgage interest and was told 
that they could make overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance each year 
refreshed on the 1 November, and at the same time, maintain the existing monthly 
payments. Mr and Mrs C made an overpayment at the end of October 2019 and there was 
an issue about the exact amount of the overpayment they could make although no complaint 
was pursued at that stage. Then in February 2020 Mr and Mrs C got a letter from RBS 
saying that because of the overpayment their monthly payments would be reduced. Mr and 
Mrs C said they had been told this wouldnt happen and that they wouldnt have taken out 
the mortgage if they had known this was the case. 
Yorkshire agreed that its information about how Mr and Mrs C could have maintained the 
monthly payments at the same level - in effect by making overpayments as part of the 
monthly payments - could have been clearer and offered £75 compensation. Our 
investigator felt that Yorkshire should increase the level of compensation to £150 because it 
had unfairly raised Mr and Mrs Cs expectation of how they could make overpayments but 
didnt accept that the mortgage product was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs C disagree saying that if 
the could make the annual overpayments and maintain the same monthly payments they 
would save thousands in interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a number of phone calls related to this complaint. Mr C had a long phone 
appointment with a Yorkshire adviser on the 7 August 2018 which led to Mr and Mrs C 
agreeing to the 10 Year Fixed rate mortgage product. I formed the view from the call that Mr 
and Mrs C had done a good deal of research and had picked the 10-year product because it 
gave them security and stability and peace of mind. Mr C felt that in two to four years 
interest rates would go up. With this product they could make an affordable and certain 
payment each month and had a savings buffer so that if Mr C was made redundant, they 
had the certainty to survive that. For that reason, Mr and Mrs C didnt want a shorter period 
or higher payments which would have allowed them to pay off the loan quicker. Indeed, a lot 
of time was spent on questioning Mr C about why he preferred the longer to the shorter time 
period.
Although the matter of overpayments is central to this complaint, it wasnt central to that 
discussion. An overpayment is a facility provided by a lender allowing a borrower to pay off 
some of the capital balance on a mortgage without incurring an early repayment charge 
(ERC). There was a discussion about the overpayments and that there was a facility of 
making overpayments up to 10% of the capital balance. At that stage Mr C was talking about 
making an overpayment every couple of years. I noted that the adviser mentioned that 
Yorkshire would always recalculate a borrowers mortgage payments when an overpayment 
was made but also indicated that the contractual monthly payments could be maintained. I 
understand its the case that the monthly payments can be maintained, and static payments 
made but these will be within an overall annual allowance of 10% of the capital balance for 
overpayments. I didnt understand the adviser to say that the 10 % annual allowance could 
be exceeded. 
Ive attached some significance to this phone call as shortly afterwards Yorkshire issued a 
product transfer offer recommending the product to Mr and Mrs C which they accepted. I 
formed the view after listening to the call that what was significant for Mr and Mrs C in 
considering the new mortgage product was the length of the term, the interest rate and the 
certainty that the payments wouldnt be increased over the term. Certainly, they also 
discussed overpayments, but it wasnt central to the discussion and Mr C didnt indicate that 
their decision on the new mortgage product depended on their ability both to be able to 
make overpayments and continue to make the existing monthly payments. Indeed, the 
adviser had referred to recalculating those payments after the overpayments were made 
which indicated that wouldnt be the case. But as I dont consider the process for managing 
the overpayments was central to this discussion when the product was sold, I cant fairly 
agree that the product was mis-sold.  
In any case, before they accepted the product transfer offer, Mr and Mrs C got the formal 
offer which set out at section 11 how Yorkshire would treat overpayments and Ive no 
evidence that Yorkshire hasnt followed the process set out there. The problem is that in a 
conversation subsequent to that of 7 August Mr and Mrs C have been told that they could 
continue to make the overpayments without that leading to a recalculation downwards of the 
contractual monthly payment. But that doesnt agree with what is contained in the product 
transfer offer and the other mortgage documents referred to in the offer which set out  the 
terms of the agreement between Yorkshire and Mr and Mrs C. Ive no doubt that if Mr and 
Mrs C could pay the 10% overpayment each year and maintain the starting monthly payment 
each year that they would save a lot in interest over the term but that is not how this 
mortgage product works.
I appreciate that receiving contradictory information about how the overpayments worked 
must have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs C for which they are entitled to be compensated. I 
agree with our investigator that the original offer from Yorkshire underestimates their trouble 
and upset and that a higher figure of £150 is more appropriate. To that extent I uphold this 
complaint. But for the reasons set out above I dont accept that this mortgage was mis-sold 
to Mr and Mrs C and so dont uphold that part of the complaint.
Putting things right
Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs C £150.  
My final decision My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman