DRN-2800623
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC restricted access to his Swiss Franc account
which left him unable to transfer his money out of this account for a prolonged period of time.  
What happened
Mr W opened a foreign currency account with Barclays so he could receive Swiss Francs
(CHF) into this account. As part of the terms and conditions to use the Swiss Franc account
he opened a sterling current account.
As Mr W was concerned about the pandemic and exchange rates fluctuating he decided to
log into his online banking portal to check the exchange rate from CHF to British pound
sterling (GBP) but the website was unable to recognise his online credentials.
Mr W contacted Barclays about this. Barclays said they previously wrote to him and said that
as hed not been using his sterling account this would make the account dormant. They said
the letter contained a date on which they would close the account if he did not use it. Mr W
says he didnt receive the letter they sent.
Mr W says he was provided with alternative access to the online banking service, but this
only allowed him access to view his balance and it didnt allow him to transfer money out of
the Swiss Franc account.
Mr W spoke with the branch manager of a local Barclays branch. Mr W says the branch
manager told him there were two ways he could access his CHF. Option one was to open a
new sterling current account which could be manually linked to his Swiss Franc account but
it would incur a new credit search. When the new sterling account would be opened he
would be able to have online access and transfer the funds out of his Swiss Franc account.
Option two would involve Mr W requesting a cash money order to have CHF delivered to his
house or the branch without currency conversion, however, the smallest denomination of
cash available would be CHF 10, meaning that Mr W would not receive the full balance in his
account.
Mr W rejected both options. He rejected option one as he said incurring a credit check could
be materially detrimental to his ability to access credit in the future. The reason why he
rejected the second option is that he said it was inexcusable that he wouldnt receive his full
balance. He also said that he would have greater costs and time spent in exchanging the
CHF to GBP, particularly as the growth of the coronavirus was accelerating.
Mr W made a complaint to Barclays. He requested an immediate international transfer to a
separate account of which he would provide the details for. Barclays wrote to Mr W on 18
March 2020 and offered him £50 for inconvenience but said they issued dormancy
notification of the sterling account on 19 November 2019. They said the account was closed
due to dormancy on 18 February 2020. Barclays said they made no error and reiterated the
only way he could access his Swiss Franc account was to open a new sterling account or
receive the money via the branch or his home address.
Mr W contacted Barclays again. They said they were within their rights to close the sterling
account due to dormancy and the only way he could access the CHF would require him to
have a sterling current account open. Mr W says while he doesnt dispute Barclays right to
close the sterling account, by doing so Barclays have deprived him of accessing a separate
service  his Swiss Franc account. He added that upon reviewing the terms and conditions
for the Swiss Franc account, it does not mention there is a requirement to hold an active
sterling account to be able to access his Swiss Franc account.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Before our investigator could give his view of Mr
Ws complaint, Barclays said that they would overturn their original decision on his
complaint. Barclays said that they had reopened his closed account without impacting his
credit file and offered Mr W £200 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience and
distress caused and for the delay in reopening his account as this should have been done
initially.
Mr W rejected Barclays offer as he said there were outstanding issues. He said he was still
unable to use the online banking portal to make an international payment. Mr W also said
that the exchange rate was lower now then when he intended to transfer the funds in March
2020 and the compensation offered makes no consideration to the loss of value hes
incurred due to forgone interest on the balance.
On 11 November 2020 Mr W emailed our investigator and informed him that Barclays had
allowed him to transfer the money out of his Swiss Franc account. Mr W said he moved the
entire balance out of the account.
Barclays said they were unwilling to compensate Mr W for the foreign exchange loss and
disagreed he was without access to the funds from when his online banking didnt allow him
to transfer out, as they said they had noted on their system that Mr W was told on 11 March
2020 that he couldve written a letter which would allow him to transfer the CHF elsewhere.
This wouldve been processed by branch staff. Mr W refutes this as he says he was told on
the telephone that this offer wasnt available to him.
Our investigator said that the £200 offer from Barclays was fair. Mr W disagreed and asked
for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W has now been able to transfer his CHF externally all thats left for me to decide is if
Barclays are responsible for any errors in the delay of Mr W being able to transfer his funds
from Barclays to an external provider and Im satisfied they are. Ill explain why below.
Firstly, Ive thought about what shouldve happened when Mr W couldnt get access to his
online banking to transfer out the CHF as he intended to do so in March. Im persuaded that
Barclays shouldve reopened his sterling account without impacting his credit file, as they
eventually did, which wouldve allowed him to transfer his CHF externally when he first
wanted to.
I say this as Barclays have said in an email to our investigator on 28 October 2020 that Mr
Ws account should have been reopened initially. Had this happened, then Im satisfied Mr
W couldve exchanged the CHF to GBP in March and not months later.Ive also thought about how Barclays transferred the money to a third party foreign currency
account. This did not involve the sterling account. This option shouldve been offered to Mr
W initially if the sterling account couldnt have been reactivated. I know Barclays have said
that Mr W couldve written a letter which wouldve enabled him to transfer the funds out of
this account but Mr W says that he was told on a call this wasnt an option to him. Barclays
have said they cant locate a call where he was told that he couldnt write a letter to transfer
the CHF out of his account. So Ive thought about whether its likely he was told this.
Mr W has been clear and consistent in his version of events when he says that Barclays told
him that writing a letter wasnt an option. And this is supported by Barclays final response
letter from 18 March 2020. In this it clearly states that the only two options available to him
are to apply for a new sterling account or request a money order and Barclays international
team will make arrangements to send the money to the branch or his home address without
currency conversion. At no point in the letter does it give him the option of writing a letter to
transfer his funds externally. So while Barclays notes on their system suggest that Mr W
was told he could write a letter to transfer the funds on 11 March 2020  that is contradicted
by what they actually told Mr W in writing.
Ive considered that Barclays have said that Mr W needed to have a sterling account open to
use his Swiss Franc account, but Im not persuaded by this either. I say this as while its true
the terms and conditions of the account state that he must open a sterling account to be able
to open a foreign exchange account, Ive not seen any evidence in the terms and conditions
that state that the sterling account must remain open in order to use the facilities of the
foreign exchange account.
As seen by the transfer of CHF away from Barclays, it doesnt appear that the sterling
account which had been reactivated was not used in this transaction. It also wouldnt have
been used if the money order had been delivered to the branch or his home address. In
addition, the currency account terms and conditions show in the sending money overseas
section that payments can be made from a sterling or currency account. So while it may be
Barclays intent that a sterling account remains open while a foreign exchange account is
open, the terms and conditions Ive been provided with do not explicitly state that. And, in the
individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont think its fair that Barclays have said they
couldnt have made the transfer without the sterling account being open  where whats
happened since shows that they are able to do this  even if it might not be their usual
procedure to do so.
Ive thought about what Mr W said about not receiving the letter explaining that his sterling
account would be closed if he didnt use it. Im satisfied that the letter regarding Mr Ws
sterling account was sent out to his registered address as confirmed by the copy of the letter
Ive been provided with. So while Mr W says he didnt receive this, I cant hold Barclays
responsible for possible errors with the postage system. In any event, I dont think this
affects the outcome here, as ultimately, I think Barclays should have done what Mr W asked
them to for the reasons Ive already given  regardless of the status of the sterling account.
Ive considered how Barclays should put things right for Mr W and how they could put him in
the same position he wouldve been had they reactivated the sterling account/transferred the
money externally initially. Ill split this into three parts to consider the separate issues:
1) Exchange rate loss
2) Being without access to the CHF
3) Distress and inconvenience
1) Exchange rate lossOur investigator has said its likely that Mr W wouldve transferred the funds out of the Swiss
Franc account between when he tried to log onto his internet banking on 9 March 2020, to
when he looked at foreign exchange rates on 25 March 2020 as the pandemic was starting
to get worse.
Im persuaded that its most likely that Mr W wouldve transferred money or exchanged CHF
to GBP on 25 March 2020. I say this as this is the date he cancelled a third party transfer in
anticipation of being able to transfer his money to the third party. From the 25 March 2020 to
when he was actually able to transfer the funds to the third party provider the exchange rate
had fallen.
While I understand Mr W has provided us exchange rates of the third party, I dont think its
fair to Barclays to say they should look at exchange rates of other companies as it would
always have been Mr Ws choice to transfer to a third party. Ive also thought about when Mr
W has actually converted the CHF to GBP on 7 December but again, I dont think its fair to
ask Barclays to pay the exchange rate loss on this date. I say this as if they had transferred
the money in March then they wouldnt be responsible for when Mr W chose to convert from
CHF to GBP.
I asked Barclays what the exchange rate for CHF to GBP was on 25 March 2020 and they
said it was 0.8604. On 11 November 2020 it was 0.8224.
So I think its only reasonable that Barclays put Mr W in a position that he shouldve been in
on 25 March 2020 and ensure he receives the same exchange rate as he wouldve done
and not the exchange rate he did get on 11 November 2020. By Barclays putting him in the
same position as he shouldve been in March, then Barclays wouldve been able to apply
their margins to converting the CHF to GPB. So as Im asking them to compensate Mr W for
the loss in the foreign exchange, its only fair they are able to apply any applicable
margins for this transaction too.
2) Being without access to the CHF
Ive thought about what both parties have said about Mr Ws access to the CHF from when
he was locked out of his internet banking. Mr W believes he didnt have access to his funds
by a reasonable method. Barclays have said he had access to the funds all along as he
couldve requested a money order.
Im persuaded that while Mr W couldve requested a money order, this would have been an
unnecessary inconvenience for Mr W at a difficult time as his intent was to transfer the full
balance in one go. Here though, he couldnt do that with a money order as he would need to
exchange this with another provider which wouldve incurred extra costs and time for
something which Barclays couldve resolved when the issue was brought to their attention.
So Im satisfied that the effect of how Barclays handled this situation meant that, for a period
of time, Mr W was essentially without reasonable access to his money in the way he needed.
It follows that I think its fair that Barclays pays interest on that amount where hes been
without the ability to use it in the way he wanted.
Although Mr W was without access to his online banking in February, I dont think its fair to
ask Barclays to pay 8% simple interest from February as they were entitled to close his
sterling account when they did. But when Mr W spoke with the branch on 11 March 2020 this
is when Im persuaded Barclays wouldve known there was a problem. So Im satisfied that
its fair for Barclays to pay 8% simple interest on the balance from 11 March 2020, which is
the date Mr W spoke to the branch manager to 11 November 2020, which is the date whenhe was able to transfer his money to a third party.
3) Distress and inconvenience
Barclays have already offered Mr W £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by not
reopening his sterling account without impacting his credit rating. Im satisfied this is a fair
offer for impact the distress and inconvenience would have on Mr W as its taken several
months for him to move funds externally when he shouldve been able to do so in March.
So it follows that I will be asking Barclays to put things right. To summarise they should firstly
compensate Mr W for the loss in exchange rate from 25 March 2020 to 11 November 2020.
Secondly they should compensate him for being without reasonable access to the funds for
a prolonged period. So they should pay him 8% simple interest on the full balance from 11
March 2020 to 11 November 2020 and finally for the distress and inconvenience they should
pay him the £200 they already offered.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr W broadly agreed with the provisional decision, however, he asked me to 
expand upon the reasoning for allowing Barclays to apply their own exchange margins to the 
exchange rate loss.  
Barclays said that Mr W transferred funds from his currency account, by accessing his online 
banking, when the current account was re-opened and not before. The current account 
provided the link for him to do so. So he did require a sterling account to be open for him to 
access his funds online. They also said that they offered Mr W the opportunity to put his 
request in writing in order for a third party transfer to be authorised in March 2020, which he 
declined. But, Barclays did say they agreed to pay the difference in exchange rates as I set 
out in the provisional decision. They also agreed to compensate Mr W with 8% interest plus 
£200.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has asked me to expand on my reasoning for allowing Barclays to apply its own 
exchange margins to the exchange rate loss. As I explained in my provisional decision, I 
dont think its fair to Barclays to say they should look at exchange rates of other companies 
as it would always have been Mr Ws choice to transfer to a third party. As different third 
parties may use different exchange rates and have different margins they apply for 
transactions then it would be unfair for me to ask Barclays to compensate Mr W in line with 
another companies exchange rates. 
Ive thought about what Barclays have said in their response to my provisional decision. But, 
as I explained in my provisional decision Barclays have said in an email to our investigator 
on 28 October 2020 that Mr Ws account should have been reopened initially (without a 
credit search). Had this happened, then Im satisfied Mr W couldve exchanged the CHF to 
GBP in March and not months later. So Im not persuaded that Barclays made no error here. 
Barclays have agreed to pay Mr W what I intended to award in my provisional decision (but 
they didnt say they would apply their own margins to the exchange rate loss). My final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision and Ill be asking 
Barclays to put things right for Mr W.
Putting things rightIn my provisional decision I suggested Barclays should pay Mr W the difference in the 
exchange rate from 25 March 2020 to 11 November 2020 (they can apply any applicable 
margins to this should they wish). They should also pay 8% simple interest on the full 
balance while he was without reasonable access from his funds from 11 March 2020 to 11 
November 2020. Finally Barclays should pay Mr W £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr W the difference in the 
exchange rate from 25 March 2020 to 11 November 2020 (they can apply any applicable 
margins to this should they wish). They should also pay 8% simple interest on the full 
balance while he was without reasonable access from his funds from 11 March 2020 to 11 
November 2020. Finally Barclays should pay Mr W £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman