DRN-1429758
The complaint
Mr H complained that Santander UK Plc didnt properly record his medical information and 
as a result didnt deal with him as a vulnerable customer.
What happened
Mr H has a credit card with Santander. Mr H, unfortunately, lost his job in 2018 and was 
unable to make the agreed repayments on the credit card account. He entered into a debt 
management plan, using an external agency, in around August 2018 and lower monthly 
payments were made. 
Mr H contacted Santander after he said he received four letters from it in the space of a 
week in around June 2019, including a statement and letters warning him the account was 
likely to default. Mr H said he had made all payments as agreed and was concerned there 
was something wrong with the debt management plan. 
When Mr H spoke to Santander, he learned that Santanders Collections Assist Team, which 
deals with vulnerable customers, were not dealing with his account. Mr H felt this team 
should have been dealing with his account because of his mental health conditions. Mr H 
complained to Santander about the letters he received. He also complained that his mental 
health conditions, which he said hed previously disclosed, were not properly noted on 
Santanders systems. He said, as a result, he wasnt being dealt with as a vulnerable 
consumer. 
Santander responded in July 2019. It apologised and said Mr H had been misinformed that 
Santander had not recorded his health conditions. It said Mr Hs details have now been 
passed to the Collections Assist Team who will be in touch in due course. It offered £200 
compensation for not having Mr Hs health condition more prominently documented on his 
account. Mr H didnt accept the compensation. 
Santander also said the credit card would continue to be defaulted and further written 
communication would be sent out to Mr H to confirm this. It said legally it had to provide 
these letters to customers so it was unable to prevent them being sent to Mr H. 
Mr H was unhappy with the response from Santander and complained to this service. He 
said the crux of his complaint was that Santander had failed in its duty of care towards him 
as a vulnerable customer and in the handling of his account. Mr H said he informed 
Santander of his medical conditions in 2017 and again in 2018, when he lost his job, and 
gave explicit consent for it to record this information. Mr H said he also complained to this 
service in 2017 and recalls us instructing Santander to make sure his medical needs were 
noted on its system. 
Mr H also told this service that the member of staff at Santander that he spoke to about his 
medical conditions not being noted on the system did nothing at all to help him at the time. 
He said they told him Santander had done nothing wrong and they were going to leave it at 
that. Mr H was also concerned that this same member of staff issued the written response to 
his complaint. 
Our investigator initially upheld Mr Hs complaint. She said Mr H had been treated poorly by 
Santander, who had not acted in line with his disability requirements. Our investigator said 
Santander should have had Mr Hs medical conditions as an alert on its file. She suggested 
Santander pay a total of £750 compensation. 
Santander disagreed with the outcome and provided additional information including phone 
calls made by Mr H to it in 2017. It said at that point in time, Mr H told it he did not give his 
consent for it to record his medical conditions. It also said there was nothing on its system to 
indicate Mr H had ever asked it to note his medical conditions, until the current complaint 
was submitted.  
Our investigator reviewed the additional information from Santander and issued a second 
assessment. She didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said Santander provided evidence to 
show Mr H asked it not to record his personal details on file in 2017, and he complained to 
this service in the same year because he was unhappy Santander added his medical 
information on file without his consent. Our investigator said theres no evidence to show 
Mr H gave Santander consent to add his medical conditions on its system since then. Our 
investigator concluded Santander hadnt done anything wrong, as it had listened to what Mr 
H previously told it about not recording his medical conditions. 
Mr H was unhappy with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Santander said it would expect a vulnerable consumer to be dealt with by its Collections 
Assist Team. So the question here is whether it should have known to treat Mr H as a 
vulnerable customer, because of his medical conditions, and ensure he was being dealt with 
by the relevant team. And whats key here is that Mr H would have needed to tell Santander 
about his vulnerabilities, with a view to it keeping a record of these. 
I first of all want to address the issue of whether Mr H previously brought a complaint about 
Santander failing to record his medical conditions on its system. I know that Mr H thought he 
had, but Im satisfied thats not the case. Ive seen a decision issued by this service in 
August 2017 in relation to a complaint against Santander. One of Mr Hs complaint points 
was that Santander had recorded sensitive information about him, namely his medical 
conditions, without asking for his permission to do that. Mr H thought this information 
shouldnt have been recorded and Santander accepted this point. So the earlier complaint 
was that Santander shouldnt have kept details of Mr Hs medical conditions on file, while the 
current complaint is that it should have. 
This means that in order for me to uphold Mr Hs current complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that Mr H told Santander, at some stage after he made the complaint to this service 
in 2017, that he now wanted it to note his medical conditions on its system. And Im satisfied 
its more than likely Mr H didnt do this. 
I say this because Santander provided call recordings dated after the complaint was dealt 
with by this service in 2017. These showed Mr H had made contact with it, but hadnt asked 
it to record his medical conditions. These call recordings date from November 2017 and 
were made by Mr H to Santander when he was having difficulty making purchases using his card. The issues were resolved quickly each time and Mr H doesnt mention his medical 
conditions. 
Mr H said he contacted Santander in 2018, when he unfortunately lost his job, and let it 
know about his medical conditions. I can see that Santander has acknowledged it made 
several refunds to Mr H in 2018 and that he was noted as a vulnerable consumer for the 
purposes of the limited contact he had with it then. But it said this was because Mr H was 
unemployed and was not related to his medical conditions. Santander said theres no 
evidence to suggest Mr H informed them of his medical conditions at this time. 
Santander hasnt been able to provide any call recordings in relation to Mr Hs contact with it 
in 2018. But I have seen contact log notes. These show that Mr H rang Santander in 
August 2018 and told it that he had been sick for nine months and had very recently lost his 
job. The amount Mr H was able to pay per month was discussed and the reason for the 
arrears was listed as unemployment. Nowhere in the contact log entries for 2018 does it 
say that Mr H told Santander about his specific medical conditions and asked them to record 
them on its system.
So from what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not Mr H didnt contact Santander prior to 
making the current complaint to let it know about his medical conditions, with a view to it 
noting these on its system. And because Im satisfied Mr H didnt make Santander aware of 
or ask it to note his medical conditions, Im satisfied Santander didnt make an error or act 
unfairly in not recording Mr Hs medical conditions and not arranging at an earlier point for 
his account to be dealt with by the Collections Assist Team.  
Ive also looked at the amount of correspondence Mr H received, that prompted him to make 
contact with Santander. I appreciate that, given Mr Hs medical conditions, it must have been 
frustrating for him to get the amount of correspondence he got in a single week. But 
Santander are obliged to send statements and letters giving notice of its intention to default 
an account. So while I appreciate Mr Hs frustration, I dont think Santander has done 
anything wrong in sending the letters and statement to Mr H. 
Mr H also felt that the member of staff who took his call on 2 July 2019 provided him with no 
assistance at all once he told her about his medical conditions. And he said she told him 
Santander had done nothing wrong and he felt she intended to leave it at that. Ive listened 
to the relevant call and I think that the member of staff did try to help. When Mr H told her 
about his medical conditions, she asked if he was willing to discuss that with her, with a view 
to being put through to the specialist team for a chat. Towards the end of the call, Mr H 
asked the member of staff to record him as a vulnerable consumer and she agreed to do this 
and to pass the information onto the relevant team. I understand that it sounded as if Mr H 
found this call quite distressing, but Im satisfied the member of staff did what she could to 
discuss, note and pass on details of Mr Hs medical conditions.  
I realise that Mr Hs medical conditions might mean he finds it very frustrating to have to deal 
with situations such as the one he encountered with Santander in July 2019. But I could only 
ask Santander to do more if I thought it had done something wrong. And Im satisfied it 
hasnt. So I wont be asking Santander to take any further action in relation to Mr Hs 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman