DRN-3723504
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, has complained that Vitality Health Limited made an error 
with the renewal quote for its business health care plan.
The directors of F have brought the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
Fs business health care plan was due for renewal in December 2020. F called Vitality to 
renew the policy. It spoke to one of Vitalitys agents on the telephone. During this call some 
changes were made to add other benefits onto the plan, namely dental cover, personal 
health fund and employee assistance. Following these changes, a quote was provided for 
£617.91 per month. F confirmed it was happy with the quote and renewed its policy.
In January 2021, Fs employee called Vitality to make a claim on the policy. At this point it 
became apparent they werent covered. The additional benefits added to the policy at 
renewal had only been applied to one employee and not all the staff.
Vitality accepts that they made an error in misquoting for the plan. But they said it was also 
Fs responsibility to check the correct cover had been provided. They said that had the 
correct cover been provided at renewal, the price would have been £801.62. In order to put 
things right, Vitality offered to refund the difference in the premium for the two months F had 
already paid however, it said future premiums will be £801.62. It also gave the option to 
cancel the plan from the renewal date (providing no claims had been paid). As the 30-day 
cancelation window has passed, it extended the time frame to allow for the cancellation to 
take place until 29 January 2021.
F didnt agree with the outcome. It said it may not have renewed had the correct price been 
given at renewal. F didnt accept the offer to cancel the policy either as it wanted 
continuation in cover for its employees.
Vitality said they couldnt honour the incorrect quote and therefore if F wanted to continue 
with the cover, the premiums would need to increase. F wasnt satisfied with Vitalitys 
response to its complaint and so it brought it to our service.
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint. He said that it was Vitality that made the error and 
he couldnt be satisfied that the new quote is the price Vitality would have been quoted had 
the error not occurred. He went on to say that F took out the policy in good faith based on 
the information provided by Vitality  on this basis he felt Vitality should honour the original
quote of £617.91.
In my provisional decision I said
Its not in dispute that an error was made by Vitality at renewal and therefore I have focused 
my decision on whether they have done enough to put things right for F. I know this will not 
be the outcome F was hoping for but, having thought about everything Ive been given; I 
think Vitality has done enough to put things right. Ill explain why.
It isnt my role to determine how much premium an insurer should charge their customer 
when setting up or renewing a policy. This is a commercial decision that our service wouldnt 
generally interfere with providing it would apply to all policyholders in the same 
circumstances.
Im satisfied that Vitality didnt deal with Fs policy amendments correctly. However, I do also 
think F could have done more to check that the level of cover was correct. Vitalitys renewal 
quote to F contained details of the cover and it was clear from this that the changes had only 
been applied to one member of staff. The renewal quote included a summary of benefits 
which stated what was included for managers and beside it, a list for employee and 
dependants. The chosen benefits were marked as included in the manager section and not 
included in the employee and dependants section.
F says Vitality should honour its original quote because it made the error, albeit the changes 
made to the policy were only applied to one member of staff and F wanted it for all the 
employees on the policy. Due to the additional cover on the policy, it would be reasonable to 
see an increase in the cost because Vitality would be covering a larger risk by providing 
additional cover. It wouldnt be fair to ask Vitality to provide the additional cover and not 
charge for it because an error was made in applying the changes.
F said had the true cost been apparent from the outset, it would have shopped around for 
other policies. I have seen a copy of the other quote F said it couldve got which is 
considerably lower in price than Vitalitys quote but also the level of cover is not on a like for 
like basis so its not comparable. Its impossible to know what policy F would have ended up 
with.
In any event F was given the option to cancel the cover if it wasnt happy with the new price 
of the policy and this was extended to after the error had been discovered. I do understand 
why F didnt take this option. Continuation of cover was important for F because it had told 
its employees it was providing health benefits and a claim was being made. I can see why it 
felt it wouldve been unfair to remove the cover at this stage and risk starting a new policy 
with a different provider.
In order to put things right, Vitality said it would refund the difference for the first two months 
premium however thereafter it would need to charge the increased premium of £801.62 if 
cover was to continue. I note that Vitality has stated different amounts for refund throughout 
the course of the complaint, which may have caused confusion as to what is being offered. 
Vitality has confirmed that their offer to put things right is to refund £617.91. I understand 
that this refund has already been applied and the cover with Vitality remained in place.
Ive thought about what F has said about the impact the error had on it. I accept this must 
have been frustrating for it as it expected a much lower premium, but Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence to support that it would have taken cover elsewhere or done anything differently.
Although I accept Vitality made an error, I cant make a punitive award against it. I simply 
dont have the power to do so and it isnt my role to make such an award. Having considered 
everything Ive been provided with, I think the refund of £617.91 Vitality has applied, is an 
appropriate sum to compensate it for the inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fs representative responded to say she is disappointed with the provisional decision. She 
said that she is sure there is a regulatory act that they have to honour a premium that was agreed and first payment collected (making the contract binding from first payment). 
Vitality responded to say it accepted the provisional decision and did not have anything 
further to add
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont underestimate Fs representatives disappointment with the outcome in my provisional 
decision and I apologise for the time it has taken for this outcome to be reached. 
Ive noted that Fs representative has said there is a regulatory act for Vitality to honour the 
incorrect quote. Im afraid Im not aware of any such requirement, nor has Fs representative 
provided any further information about the act she refers to for me to consider further. For 
the reasons explained in my provisional decision, Vitality isnt required to honour the 
incorrect quote.  
Id like to reassure Fs representative that I have independently reviewed the complaint, 
giving it careful consideration, but Im not persuaded that there is any new information which 
changes my decision. I am sorry to disappoint her, but for the reasons set out above, I wont 
be upholding the complaint. 
I maintain my provisional decision and I dont uphold Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman