DRN-3997221
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Marsh Ltd (Marsh) has provided incorrect information 
about a Commercial Combined policy. S says this led to it not receiving an appropriate 
refund when cancelling the insurance.
Any reference to S or Marsh includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill summarise events.
In January 2020 Marsh provided S with a quote for a Commercial Combined policy.
Marsh says alongside the quote and policy documentation, it highlighted key areas of 
the terms and conditions to review  including a minimum and deposit premium 
endorsement. And that this endorsement stated that all premiums were non- 
refundable in the event of a mid-term cancellation.
Marsh said S spoke to one of its agents on 21 January 2020 to discuss the terms. 
And S then agreed to proceed with the quote shortly after.
The following year, Marsh says it emailed S a renewal quote in March 2021 
alongside the policy documentation, which S agreed to.
The following year, on 30 March 2022, Marsh emailed S a renewal quote and policy 
documentation. Marsh says S agreed and it provided the invoice for payment and 
confirmed the policy was renewed.
On 4 April 2022 Marsh says it sent the policy documentation  which included a 
schedule and policy terms.
On 12 April 2022 S emailed Marsh to explain changes in Ss business. It asked if the 
insurer could change the company name, and if not, S wanted a return of the 
premium paid and it would instead take out the policy on a monthly basis until 
changes were complete.
Marsh responded on 14 April 2022 and explained the insurer couldnt change the 
company name, nor could Marsh amend the payments from an annual to monthly 
basis as payment had already been made in full. But Marsh said:
I would like to reassure you that once you cancel the policy, you will receive
a pro-rata refund for the remaining cover which you no longer require. We 
wont just keep the premium paid already.
In late April 2022 S said the policy would not need to continue past 29 May 2022 and 
requested a refund from the insurer. Some back and forth followed about the date the 
cancellation would need to take place.
In July 2022 Marsh confirmed a refund of £295.88 was due. And that the terms for 
Employers Liability and Public Liability allowed the insurer to retain full premiums 
even upon cancellation.
S complained, saying it was expecting a refund sum of around £1,400 due to what it 
had been told by Marsh  and that its information about a pro-rata refund was wrong. 
Marsh agreed it had given incorrect advice about a pro-rata refund but stated this 
had come after the policy was arranged and prior to this it had given accurate 
information, and the misinformation had not impacted the date of cancellation.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and partially upheld the 
complaint. He said S had an obligation to review its policy documentation when 
taking the insurance out and Marsh had provided it with the appropriate information 
to review at inception and renewal.
But the Investigator said Marsh had provided incorrect information about the refund 
after the policy was set up, and this mistake had caused some confusion and 
disruption to S. So, he awarded £50 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Marsh agreed, but S didnt. S said Marsh was aware before the cooling off period 
had ended that it only required three months insurance and was given the advice to 
cancel the policy when it wasnt needed. S also highlighted Marshs own terms which 
state it would only retain commission/fee amount to cover its own administration and 
advisory costs.
So, the matter was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 21 February 2023 outlining why I intended to uphold the complaint. Ive included 
an extract of this below.
The key facts of this matter arent in dispute  all parties agree that Marshs 
agent gave incorrect information to S about the refund terms of the policy after 
the insurance was taken out.
The crux of the complaint that remains in dispute is the extent of the impact of 
that incorrect information. Marsh has said there is a limited impact as the policy 
was already taken out by this time. And on its face, if S is already bound by the 
terms of the agreement, I can understand this logic.
S has said if it had been told that there wasnt a pro-rata refund on most parts of 
its policy when it asked  it wouldve cancelled the policy altogether in line with a 
right to a cooling off period of 14 days.
So, Ive looked at the policy wording. Under the All Risks Policy Wording that 
Marsh has provided, under the heading Your Cancellation Rights it says:
During the cooling-off period of fourteen (14) days
You have the statutory right to cancel this Policy within fourteen (14) 
days from the purchase of this Policy or its renewal date or from the day 
on which You receive this Policy or renewal documentation, whichever is 
the later.
To cancel this Policy please write to Your insurance adviser or 
Our Binding Underwriter to confirm Your requirements.
Upon receiving Your instructions We will cancel this Policy:
where You request that no cover is to be provided by Us, 
You will be entitled to a full refund of premium
alternatively;
where You request this Policy coverage to be operative for 
a limited number of days within the cooling-off period You 
will be entitled to a refund of premium paid, less a deduction for any time for which We have provided cover. 
This is calculated in proportion to the time We have 
provided cover provided there have been no claims or 
circumstances that have occurred which may give rise to a 
claim under this Policy, in which case no premium will be 
refunded.
If You do not exercise Your right to cancel this Policy the 
insurance will continue in force and You will be required to pay the 
full premium.
So, it appears to me that S couldve cancelled the policy within those first 14 days 
and received a full refund or a refund minus the period of time they were on risk.
The policy was taken out on 31 March 2022. And Marsh sent its policy 
documents to S on 4 April 2022  which I would think it was reasonable to 
consider to be the date S received its renewal documentation as specified in the 
above terms. 
S clearly contacted (by phone and email) Marsh referring to upcoming changes in 
its business within the next couple of months on the 11 and 12 April 2022  
which Marsh has quoted within its own final response.
Marshs response containing misinformation was on 14 April 2022. Based on 
what Ive been given, this appears to within the 14 days of the renewal 
documentation being sent (on 4 April 2022).
Ive thought about what shouldve happened. If in that email Marsh had confirmed 
that S wouldnt be entitled to a pro-rata refund, it strikes me that it wouldve likely 
taken steps to cancel this policy, knowing it would otherwise have paid premiums 
for cover it was unlikely to ever use. And instead, it seems likely S wouldve 
sought to take out a similar one on a rolling basis, as it suggested in its email of 
12 April 2022.
And I outlined that I would propose to direct Marsh Ltd to either:
Calculate whatever likely premiums S wouldve incurred in setting up a monthly 
rolling policy on similar terms for the period the insurance did run for before 
cancellation. It can then deduct this sum from the actual premiums paid to estimate a 
likely refund S wouldve received  and pay S this sum.
Or, alternatively
Pay S the sum S wouldve received had its policy terms been set up on the basis of a 
pro-rata refund. And while S had said this sum equated to £1,400 I would leave this 
to Marsh to calculate.
Alongside this, I said I would direct Marsh to pay 8% simple interest on the payment 
and a compensatory sum of £50.
S agreed. Marsh disagreed, asking me to consider there were six days between the date S 
enquired about cancellation terms and the end of the 14 day cooling off period. It said if S 
had cancelled it wouldve likely been left uninsured or if it was successful in obtaining 
alternative terms the short-term rates would likely be much higher. And that this risk had 
limited market options due to the nature of the business. So, Marsh said it seemed unlikely 
there would be more cost-effective options available.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. 
Ive considered Marshs most recent submission. And I accept that S would have had 
limited time to obtain insurance elsewhere and this may have hindered its ability to 
obtain a competitive rate elsewhere. But it hasnt proven this beyond its own 
speculation. And as it has said, this was possible, until this opportunity was taken 
away from S by Marsh.
So, Marsh hasnt changed my mind and Im still satisfied it will need to put things 
right in line with the direction I gave in my provisional decision. 
Marsh hasnt provided me with any estimate or a quote for a similar policy on a 
monthly or shorter-term basis. As a result, to bring this matter to a close, I will direct it 
to carry out the latter of the options I gave it, and simply refund S premiums as if the 
policy did allow for a pro-rata refund.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Marsh Ltd must:
Pay S the sum S wouldve received had the policy provided a pro-rata refund.
Marsh will also need to pay 8% simple interest on this payment from the date the 
refund wouldve been due up until the date of payment.
Pay S £50 in compensation.
Marsh Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it S 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S and S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman