DRN-3354094
The complaint
Miss A has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) has 
not paid her the proceeds due from a life with profits fund policy that she surrendered in 
1999. 
Miss A is being represented by her nephew, but I will refer to Miss A in my decision for ease 
of reference. 
What happened
In 2021 Miss A found a cheque for £20,177.64 dated 5 October 1999 which she had 
received from the Prudential upon the surrender of her life with profits fund policy. Miss A 
doesnt recall encashing the cheque and believes the amount is owed to her. 
Miss A is 91 years of age and disabled. She would like to have the funds in order to make 
some modifications to her home. 
Miss A raised her concerns with the Prudential. 
Prudential wrote to Miss A on 26 July 2021 explaining that in accordance with the Data 
Protection Act it only held records for five years and no longer held any related documents in 
order to reissue the cheque. Miss A felt this response was unhelpful and the Prudential later 
awarded Miss A £150 in recognition of this. It wrote to her again on 30 August 2021. 
It said it had limited records but did note the cheque issued on 5 October 1999 was stopped 
after Miss A contacted the Prudential in November 1999. A second cheque was issued on 
11 November 1999 and Prudential had no reason to think this wasnt cashed.  
Miss A wasnt happy with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. Briefly she 
said;
It was more likely Miss A had received the second cheque and had cashed it.
Prudential confirmed the second cheque didnt lapse which suggested it had been 
presented for payment and cashed. 
The investigator didnt think the Prudential had done anything wrong.
In response Miss A said that cheques do not got out of date and it was not possible for her to 
provide evidence that she didnt cash the cheque as it was something that didnt happen. 
Miss A said she didnt contact the Prudential asking for a further cheque to be issued and no 
correspondence was issued or received by her. The Prudential should still be holding 
records from the time.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I appreciate that Miss A is frustrated that the Prudential doesnt have any further records. But 
as the policy was fully surrendered over 20 years ago, and businesses arent required to 
keep documentation indefinitely, I dont find this surprising. Miss A has said that in its role as 
a life assurance business the Prudential should be keeping records for longer. But this was a 
full surrender of Miss As policy and the Prudential no longer had a relationship with Miss A 
after that took place and the payment made in 1999. 
Miss A has given us a copy of the Full Surrender Statement for her life with profits fund and 
withdrawal contract notes which show that the investment was made in March 1995 and 
surrendered on 1 October 1999. The proceeds of the value of the units cancelled were 
£20,177.64 and Miss A has given us a copy of the cheque she has in her possession which 
is dated 5 October 1999. Miss A has told us she keeps good financial records and with the 
exception of this overlooked payment she keeps her finances in good order. 
Miss A has said that cheques dont go out of date but my understanding is that if more than 
six months have passed since the cheque was written and dated then its for the bank to 
decide whether to accept it or not. Its also my understanding that a cheque remains legally 
valid for six years. 
The Prudential hasnt got any evidence to show the cheque wasnt cashed but it has been 
able to give us a screenshot noting the original cheque was sent on 5 October 1999 and the 
address quoted is Miss As home address. There is a further note that says chq stopped 
and reissued on 11/11/99 and I think it likely it was sent to same address. Miss A has said 
system notes are no substitute for hard facts about when the cheque was paid. She also told 
us it wasnt her who contacted the Prudential to arrange for the cheque to be reissued. 
However, Im persuaded its more likely than not that Miss A, or her Prudential 
representative, did make contact with the Prudential. I appreciate this all took place over 20 
years ago and memories can and do fade over time. But bearing in mind Miss A had taken 
the proactive action of fully surrendering her with profits policy I think it likely that she was 
aware a payment of over £20,000 was to be made and the proceeds were on their way to 
her. 
Clearly, I cant know what happened with the first cheque, whether it was received and 
misplaced by Miss A or delayed in the postal service as examples. But I think its most likely 
the Prudential issued the second cheque after Miss A or her Prudential representative made 
contact with it. I say this because I think it unlikely that after surrendering her policy Miss A wouldnt have 
taken any action if the proceeds werent received. We know Miss A had received the Full 
surrender Statement and the amount involved was not an inconsiderable sum of 
money so I find it difficult to conclude that its non-receipt would have gone unnoticed. 
And the Prudential has confirmed to us its process for when cheques it has issued arent 
cashed and lapse. It said that when a cheque goes out of date its financial department is 
alerted and takes steps to investigate with the product department the reasons for the 
lapsing of the cheque and to arrange for it to be reissued. As the Prudential doesnt have 
any evidence that the second cheque lapsed and wasnt presented for payment, I think its 
more likely it was cashed. I would also think that an unreconciled sum of over £20,000 would 
have prompted the Prudential to take some action. 
As Ive explained above, when the evidence I have is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision based on the limited evidence I do have and what I consider to be the 
likely outcome on the balance of probabilities. And in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, I think it more likely the second cheque was cashed. 
No doubt Miss A will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have been able to 
explain how and why I have reached the decision that I have. And I dont have any evidence 
to suggest Miss A didnt receive the second cheque and cashed it at the time. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman