DRN-1521712
 
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that NRAM Limited allowed Mr O (her husband) to not pay the mortgage 
for a number of months without telling her. She says NRAM shouldn't have just utilised the 
overpayments to cover the missed payments.
Whilst both Mrs O and Mr O have given their consent to us considering this complaint, we've 
only been dealing with Mrs O throughout.
What happened
Mrs O and Mr O took out an interest-only mortgage with Northern Rock in 2001. They 
borrowed £135,000 over 20 years. They took a further advance of £25,000 in 2003 also on 
an interest-only basis, this time with an 18-year term.
In 2004, they took another further advance; this time for £25,350 on a repayment basis. In 
October 2014 the term of that sub-account ended and it was fully repaid.
When the third sub-account was fully repaid in 2014 Mrs O and Mr O opted to continue to 
make the same monthly payment as they had been, so they'd now be overpaying the first 
two parts of their mortgage.
As they'd been in arrears up to that point it took until December 2014 for those 
overpayments to clear the arrears, and from then on they were overpaying about £300 a 
month. That situation continued until May 2016 when Mr O called NRAM to say he didn't 
have the money to make the monthly payment. It was agreed that the overpayment credit 
would be used, albeit the call-handler made it clear that Mr O needed to ensure he prioritised 
his mortgage payments over his other spending.
Further payments were missed in October, November and December 2016, January, 
February, May, July and December 2017, and April, July, August, September, October and 
December 2018. In the months that were paid the £300 overpayment was still made, until 
January 2018 when it reverted to the standard monthly contractual payment.
The overpayments covered the missed payments until October 2018. As the account was 
now in arrears NRAM wrote to Mrs O and Mr O about that.
Mrs O rang NRAM in January 2019 to complain. There were various facets to the complaint, 
but broadly the complaint was that NRAM should have notified Mrs O separately about the 
missed payments as she says she was unaware due to Mr O paying the mortgage. She also 
complained that NRAM had placed a marital dispute marker on the account saying they'd 
separated, but that wasn't the case. She said they'd only asked about transferring the 
mortgage into her sole name for financial reasons and there has never been talk of 
separation.
NRAM rejected the main thrust of the complaint, albeit it said - due to the length of time that 
had passed - it was unable to locate the call from 2012 when the marker went on the account to say there was a marital split. NRAM apologised if the marker had been added in 
error and said it would remove it upon receipt of a letter signed by both Mrs O and Mr O. It 
also offered £100 compensation for any trouble and upset caused by that issue and because 
Mrs O had been given wrong information in a call with NRAM in February 2019.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint, and said the £100 offer was sufficient for the 
issue with the marital dispute marker. Mrs O didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mrs O and Mr O wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
This is an unusual complaint as what Mrs O is complaining about, in effect, is due to the 
actions of her husband, Mr O. Mrs O has gone to great lengths to tell us and NRAM that she 
and Mr O have never separated, so it must be assumed that they are acting in unison and 
with a common purpose. This is a joint complaint and it is a joint mortgage, so in effect both 
parties (that is Mr O as well as Mrs O) must be complaining about the same thing otherwise 
the complaint wouldn't make sense.
Here the complaint is that Mrs O wasn't told that Mr O wasn't making all the 
contractual mortgage payments. But Mr O - obviously - was aware he was missing payments 
to the mortgage, so this complaint can never succeed. It's not the role of this service to put 
NRAM in the middle of a marriage especially when, as is the case here, the married couple 
haven't separated. The person to tell Mrs O that the mortgage wasn't being paid each month 
and he'd opted to use the overpayments to cover the missed payments was Mr O, not 
NRAM.
NRAM had no regulatory responsibility to tell Mrs O what Mr O was doing until such time as 
the mortgage went into arrears, whereby it notified Mrs O and Mr O correctly. In any event 
annual mortgage statements were issued each year and it's apparent from these that 
payments were being missed. For instance the statement issued at the start of 2017 shows 
no payments had been made since September 2016. And the statement issued at the start 
of 2018 shows just seven payments were made in 2017 (against the twelve monthly 
payments that were due), and it also showed the mortgage balance had increased that year.
Mrs O has said:
"They knew (because I had informed them on numerous occasions) that my husband 
who made the mortgage payments had suffered a stroke in 2014 and had memory 
problems at times and that I had told them it was better to leave the mortgage 
amount unchanged as to keep changing it each time the rate went down would cause 
him confusion and that by paying extra, we would be reducing the capital element of 
the mortgage." "NRAM/Landmark had also been informed that my son had had a stroke and was not 
all right as he had cognitive impairment and I asked them not to discuss the 
mortgage with him as he would become confused. He is now very confused as he 
believes that by paying interest only on a loan which was obtained for him and which 
was attached to the main mortgage, that he should have finished paying the loan off 
by now and he cannot understand why the loan taken to assist him has not been paid 
off. "
 
I'm assuming in the second quote Mrs O meant to say her husband (Mr O) rather than her 
son. That being the case it seems it would have been prudent for either Mrs O to take control 
of the mortgage payments, or for a direct debit to be set up. Instead, Mr O was paying 
occasionally by standing order, and at other times by phoning up and making payments by 
debit card. Having reviewed the contact notes there's nothing to indicate Mr O was 
struggling with his memory and/or was suffering from confusion. I won't go into detail 
about the calls NRAM had with Mr O to protect his privacy.
Mrs O said "NRAM/Landmark never offered me any £100 compensation regarding the 
placing of the marker regarding divorce on our mortgage account. They never wrote to me to 
inform me that they had removed the marker as per the written signed request of my 
husband and I. The £100 was offered I believe, to dispose of my substantive complaint and 
that was why I rejected it." But that's not the case. The final response letter from NRAM 
clearly states it's upholding two parts of the complaint - that is, the parts relating to the 
marker and mis-information that was given to Mrs O on the phone - and offers £100 
compensation. NRAM has also confirmed to us that the marker has been removed.
To summarise, I'm satisfied that Mr O was aware what payments he was - and wasn't - 
making to his and Mrs O's mortgage, and that NRAM had no regulatory responsibility to 
make Mrs O separately aware of that. Especially as she has said they're not, and have 
never been, separated. The annual mortgage statements showed the payments made, so it 
was clear from these that some had been missed, and those statements were issued jointly 
to Mrs O and Mr O at their home address where Mrs O has confirmed they were both living. 
My final decision
Having considered everything I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman