DRN-1512059
The complaint
Mr V complains about the refurbishment charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) asked him to pay on a car he was financing through them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr V acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr V responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage. There are four disputed charges:
oThe bonnet damage - the BVRLA guidance says, dents of 15mm or less in 
diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and 
the paint surface is not broken. It goes on to explain that dents on the swage 
line are unacceptable too. The ruler next to the image of the damage helps to 
establish its length. I dont think its greater than 15mm; I think its a little less 
than 10mm, and I cant see there are more than two dents; that the surface is 
broken or that the dent is on a swage line. So, I dont think this charge has 
been made reasonably. It should be removed.
oRear bumper cracked  there is, to my mind, severe damage to the rear 
bumper. I can see an extensive crack that runs for most of the bumpers 
length. Id estimate the length of the crack to be about 300mm using the ruler, 
provided in the image, as a guide. The BVRLA guidance says that mouldings 
should not be cracked or deformed. So, I think the damage is beyond what 
could reasonably be considered fair wear and tear and the charge being 
applied is reasonable.
oThe door seal  Ive not seen evidence of this damage and it would therefore 
not be fair for MBFS to make a charge to refurbish it.
oExterior soiling - Ive not seen evidence of this damage and it would therefore 
not be fair for MBFS to make a charge to refurbish it.
Mr V says that the charge for the bumper is excessive. I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive. The charges MBFS have made appear broadly in line with 
similar charges Ive seen raised by their competitors and if Mr V wished to avoid the 
charge he could have had the car repaired before it was returned.
MBFS didnt have to complete the repairs that the inspector identified. They could 
instead simply sell the car at auction and accept any loss in value that may be 
incurred. The refurbishment charge they applied would help to offset that loss and  
Mr Vs obligation to pay that charge was clearly explained in the terms of the finance 
agreement he entered into. 
Putting things right
I think to put things right MBFS should remove the charge for the dented bonnet; the 
damaged door seal and the soiled exterior. That leaves the excess mileage; rear bumper 
and alloy wheel refurbishment to be charged for. MBFS have already offered a 15% 
deduction from the damage part of (the) invoice which should then be applied.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to:oremove the refurbishment charges they have made for the dented bonnet; damaged 
door seal and soiled exterior;
oapply a 15% reduction to the remaining damage charges after the above charges 
have been removed and as already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman