DRN-1586639
The complaint
Mr P complains that the 5% entry charge levied against a payment into a 
designated investment account, was wrongly applied by Invesco Fund Managers Limited 
('Invesco').
What happened
Mr P set up designated investment accounts with Invesco for his grandchildren and made 
regular monthly payments into each account. In August 2018 Mr P withdrew £700 from one 
of the accounts. Due to a change in circumstances, he could not use this money for its 
intended purpose, so he decided to re-invest through the designated account. As with 
previous investments, Mr P said he was expecting the discounted rate of 1% to apply but on 
this occasion, Invesco applied the full entry fee of 5%. Mr P complained to Invesco about the 
charge.
Invesco didn't uphold Mr P's complaint. It said the charge was in line with its terms and 
conditions. Invesco explained that discounts are used where investors have consulted a 
professional financial adviser and may need to pay for the advice received. It said that, 
unlike previous investments, Mr P had confirmed that he hadn't used an adviser on this 
particular occasion, so the discount wasn't applied. Unhappy with Invesco's response Mr P 
brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into this matter. She decided that as Mr P confirmed he 
hadn't received advice, Invesco were entitled to apply the full 5% entry charge as set out in 
its terms and conditions.
Mr P didn't agree with the investigator's view. He maintained that as this was a re-investment 
which had initially attracted a 1% entry fee, he should receive the same charge as before. So 
the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding the 
complaint.
Before I explain my reasoning, whilst I acknowledge Mr P has raised a number of points, for 
the purpose of my decision I'll focus on what I think are the key issues. So if I've not 
mentioned something it's not because I haven't considered it - it's just that I don't think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
The starting point is Invesco's terms and conditions. The Key Investor Information ('KII') 
document says that there's a one-off charge of 5%, the "entry charge," which is taken when 
an account holder invests. I can see this is the rate that was applied when Mr P invested 
£700 into the designated account in March 2019. 
I further note the KII says the maximum charge of 5% can be amended in some cases. And 
from what Mr P told this service, he's received discounted rates on all previous investments. But I can see the reason for this is that he'd confirmed previously that he had received 
"professional advice" in respect of the investment. This is clearly marked as such in a form 
he submitted in 2010. But in relation to the investment he made in March 2019, he confirmed 
to Invesco, by phone, that he had not received professional advice. So it follows that as the 
discount is designed to take into account whether the investor has received advice, I don't 
think Invesco has acted unfairly in charging Mr P the full 5% entry fee in line with its terms 
and conditions.
I appreciate Mr P sees the repayment as a "re-investment" of the money into the same 
account. So he can't understand why anything should change in respect of the entry charge. 
But I think that given he hadn't followed the same process as before, that is, he hadn't 
sought or received financial advice on this occasion, I think it follows that Invesco weren't 
obliged to offer him the discounted rate he'd benefited from previously.
So whilst I acknowledge Mr P's strength of feeling, for the reasons I've outlined above, I'm 
not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I'm not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman