DRN-2865802
The complaint
Mr B complains about issues hes experienced with a car acquired with finance from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.   
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS.
Mr B experienced issues with the dashboard making a noise, which also affected the 
navigation and camera. 
Mr B returned the car to the supplying dealer but attempts at repair were unsuccessful. He 
complained to MBFS in September 2020 and asked to reject the car.
MBFS arranged an independent inspection of the car in February 2021. The inspector 
identified an intermittent rattle from the dashboard but said he considered the fault tom be 
wear and tear related.
Based on the findings of the inspection, MBFS refused Mr Bs request to reject. Mr B 
remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the inspection report confirmed that there 
was a fault, and that the evidence showed that there had already been an attempt at repair 
by the supplying dealer in August 2020, which hadnt been successful. The investigator said 
it didnt matter  when the fault developed because  brand new car shouldnt develop a fault 
of this kind within the first year for reasons of durability. The investigator said that Mr B 
should be allowed to reject the car.
MBFS didnt agree. It said that although a repair to the command display unit had been 
carried out previously by the supplying dealer, there was no evidence that the current fault 
was related to this repair. MBFS also said that the inspection report said the fault was due to 
wear and tear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a brand new car  such as that 
supplied to Mr B  to be of a very high standard and to be free from minor defects.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present of developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity at repair. If the 
repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
Mr B and MBFs disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory quality. In order to reach 
a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality. Ive taken into account Mr Bs 
testimony, the evidence about the repairs carried out by the supplying dealer and the 
inspection report.
Mr B says that the noise from the dashboard started around 2 months after he got the car. 
he says he took the car back to the supplying dealer several times but each time he was told 
it was fixed, the noise came back again. 
Theres no dispute that the car was returned to the supplying dealer on three occasions. And 
theres no dispute that the supplying dealer carried out a repair. Mr B says the repair didnt 
resolve the dashboard noise, which is what led him to complain to MBFS.
MBFS has said that the supplying dealer was unable to find a fault. However, if this was the 
case, then I dont think the supplying dealer would have carried out a repair. I think its 
reasonable to say that there was a fault which was causing the dashboard to make a noise 
when the supplying dealer attempted a repair in September 2020. 
Its clear from the inspection report that there was a fault which was causing intermittent 
dashboard noise. Although the inspector concluded that the fault wasnt present at the point 
of supply or related to the previous repairs, Ive got some concerns about this conclusion. Ill 
explain why. Firstly, although the inspector said the fault wasnt due to unsuccessful repairs, 
he didnt specifically reference the attempted repair. If hed been made of the repair by the 
supplying dealer, I wouldve expected him to refer to it and explain why the current fault 
wasnt related. The fact that he hasnt done so suggests that he wasnt aware of the repair. 
Secondly, the inspector stated that the fault occurred 9 months after the point of supply. This 
is at odds with Mr Bs testimony, which is that the fault occurred 2 months after the point of 
supply and that the car was returned to the supplying dealer on three occasions before 
repairs were attempted in September 2020. I dont have enough information to say exactly 
when Mr B reported the fault but given that theres no dispute that the car was seen by the 
supplying dealer on three occasions, I think its likely that the fault occurred earlier than 
September 2020.
I dont think it matters whether the fault occurred within the first 6 months or outside the first 
6 months. This is because theres no dispute that theres a fault. The real issue here is 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality. As Ive already said, Id expect a brand new car 
to be of a high standard and free from minor defects for a reasonable period of time. The car 
is a prestige make and cost over £28,000. It was supplied brand new and had covered less 
than 10,000 miles at the time of the inspection. I dont think a  reasonable person would 
expect to experience a fault like this within the first 12 months of ownership. For this reason, 
I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality, for reasons of durability.  
Putting things right
MBFS has said it wants to repair the fault. But theres already been an attempt at repair 
which was unsuccessful. Under the relevant legislation, Mr B should be allowed to reject the 
car.
Mr B has been able to use the car despite the fault. But hes said that his ability to use the 
sat nav and camera was affected. I think its fair to ask MBFS to compensate Mr B for impaired use by refunding 5% of the monthly repayments hes made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Service (UK) 
Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr B
Refund the deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund 5% of the monthly payments made by Mr B
Remove any information about the agreement from Mr Bs credit file  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman