The complaint
Miss F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies alongside two credit cards.
What happened
In March 1997 Miss F applied in branch to take out two credit cards with Barclays, a 
MasterCard (card ending 8009) and a VISA Card (card ending 8007). At that point she did 
not select to take out PPI policies. In June 1997 she spoke with Barclays on the telephone 
and took out PPI on both cards.
Miss F has now complained to Barclays that the policies were mis-sold but it didnt agree 
that was the case. However, Barclays did say some excess commission and profit share that 
had been part of the premiums paid for the PPI with both cards should be refunded. 
As Barclays refused to uphold her complaint that the PPI policies were mis-sold, Miss F 
brought her concerns to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss F disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Fs complaint.
I note Miss F has said that Barclays has not dealt with one of the credit card policies she has 
complained about, and her correspondence indicates this was card account ending 8009. 
I would clarify that Miss F took out two cards, a VISA (card ending 8007) and a MasterCard 
(card ending 8009), on the same application form. Two PPI policies, one for each card, were 
later sold to her during a telephone call. So this was in fact one transaction for two policies 
and the same principles apply to the sale of both policies. 
When our adjudicator issued their view they indicated they were talking about two policies 
but did not specify card account numbers. The two PPI policies being considered were those 
relating to card numbers ending 8009 and 8007. And in this decision I am dealing with the 
sale of the two PPI policies that relate to those cards. 
Miss F was sent separate letters by Barclays about these accounts and the PPI. For card 
ending 8009 the letter was dated 19 December 2019. This letter said Barclays were not 
DRN-1868923upholding that the PPI was mis-sold, but it did indicate some compensation of £55.16 (after 
tax) was offered for excess commission and this would be paid into the bank account Miss F 
had open with Barclays.
For account ending 8007 the final response letter was sent on 24 December 2019 and this 
also indicated that the mis-sale complaint about the PPI was not being upheld but that 
excess commission compensation of £575.17 (after tax) was offered and would be paid by 
cheque to Miss F.
As has been explained to Miss F if she has complaints about any other accounts and these 
were raised with Barclays before the PPI deadline, then she should provide information 
about these accounts, so they can be considered separately. 
Miss F has complained she was mis-sold the two PPI policies as she says they were not 
suitable for her needs and she does not recall ever agreeing to take out the policies, so she 
believes they were added without her consent. She says there is no evidence that she was 
advised the PPI was optional. 
Miss F applied for her credit cards in branch March 1997 and on her application form the box 
not to take out PPI with the cards was selected. So clearly she knew at that point she had a 
choice. It was a few months later, in June 1997, it seems Miss F spoke to Barclays on the 
telephone and PPI was taken out for both card accounts. 
Looking at the way the PPI policies were sold and added to the accounts I think it is most 
likely that Miss F was aware she had a choice about taking the PPI. She had not agreed to 
take it when she applied for the cards, so it was later, and totally separate to her application 
for the credit cards, that she took out the PPI. This all happened over 20 year ago and 
memories do fade. I have to base my decision on the evidence presented and the computer 
records of events are probably more reliable than memories after all this time. 
So on balance based on what I have seen, I think Miss F knew she had a choice and at the 
time she agreed to take out the insurance cover. 
I cannot be certain exactly what was said during the telephone call and if the full information 
about the cost, benefit and the terms and conditions of the policies were explained in full to 
Miss F. So, I have considered if I think she would still have chosen to take out the PPI 
policies at the time if she had known all the details about the cover.
The cost of the cover was 70p for every £100 of the balance on each of the accounts. The 
benefits included repayment of 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 
months in any one claim. So the cost was reasonable when taking account of the benefits 
that could be paid for a successful claim and I have seen nothing to indicate the policies 
were not affordable.
The premiums appeared on the monthly statements for each account, and Miss F could 
have cancelled the policies at any time if unhappy with the cost, which is what she says she 
eventually did some years after the policies were taken out. 
I have noted Miss Fs submissions that she had good employment benefits because of the 
nature of her job. But at the time she took out the PPI policies she had only been in that 
employment for one month. When she applied for the credit cards she was in a different job.
The nature of Miss F's new employment would have required completion of a probation 
period, normally 6 months in that type of role, before she would have been able to obtain the 
full employment benefits. So at the time she spoke to Barclays and took out the PPI, a month after starting her new job, she would probably have had more limited employment 
benefits. The PPI would in any event have paid out in addition to any work benefits Miss F 
may have later been eligible for and so would have allowed any other sick benefits to be 
used for other living expenses. 
Ive not seen any information or evidence to suggest Miss F would have been affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she wouldnt have been affected by 
any restrictions on claims, for example relating to pre-existing medical conditions, I cannot 
see that further information at the time would have affected her decision that she wanted to 
take out the policies. 
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I think Miss F chose to take out the insurance 
having spoken with Barclays about it over the telephone. And it would have provided a 
useful benefit if she had needed to claim as she wasn't affected by any restrictions in the 
terms and conditions. It follows that I dont think the policies were mis-sold and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Following a Supreme Court decision, new rules were made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. These indicate that high commission and profit share at levels over 50 % of the 
premium costs may be excessive. Barclays has in this case reviewed Miss Fs accounts and 
said some excess commission or profit share should be refunded. 
For card ending 8007, Barclays calculated that compensation of £575.17 (after tax) should 
be paid to Miss F for excess commission. And for card ending 8009 it calculated £53.16 
(after tax) in compensation should be paid. These amounts include the total of the excess 
commission paid on each account, interest caused by the excess commission and also 
some compensatory interest, for the time Miss F was out of pocket. 
I think what Barclays has calculated and paid to Miss F, for the excess commission, is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding this complaint that the PPI policies were mis-
sold by Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to Miss F and I think the compensation 
offered for any excess commission for both accounts is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman