DRN-4104762
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc didnt resolve difficulties its clients were 
having when trying to send it payments.
What happened
S says its clients were getting a message that the name of the business they input for a 
payment wasnt a match to the account. It said that this problem continued each time it 
raised this with TSB. And S needed to spend time convincing clients the details were correct, 
and they often used different and more expensive methods to make payments.
TSB said in response to the complaint that the confirmation of payee (CoP) system was in 
place to give greater assurance. This checked that the name on the account was the one the 
sender expected to provide further protection. But that it was aware of an issue affecting 
some customers whose clients were incorrectly getting messages that the name couldnt be 
matched. It said it would raise this with its IT department. And it paid S £50 in compensation 
and offered to provide S with a letter confirming the details for its clients.
Our investigator recommended that TSB pay a further £100. She said she had asked it for 
information about what was recorded on its systems about S. She hadnt received a full 
response. She noted that in April 2021 S had been told it could opt out of the CoP system. 
But that TSB now said that this seemed to be a reason in itself for the issue and had 
activated it again for S in January 2023. Our investigator said that the CoP messages didnt 
prevent S clients making payments. And what its clients or other banks may do wasnt within 
TSBs control. But she thought that S could have been given clearer information.
TSB said that its digital team had reported that a recent attempt to set up a payment to S 
was successful as far as it could go with it. A screenshot of the name on the account 
matching during the payments process was provided. TSB said that the issue must be with 
the way that the payments are being sent. And that opting in or out of CoP wouldnt have 
made a difference and it hadnt found a fault with TSBs processes. Its fraud team also said 
that it could see that the name matching logic was working as expected and there wasnt 
much more it could do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a recording of a call the director of S had with TSB on 26 April 2021. The 
problem was explained and the person she spoke to said there was no issue on the system. 
At that time, Ive noted that the name of S was different and there was a discussion about 
how that name should be input. The director explained that this was happening for every 
client. TSB said that S could opt out so the message wouldnt pop up. The director said she 
would rather reduce the risk of a payment going elsewhere. But was told that TSB was very 
confident in its system and so that this wasnt the reason. So, S agreed to opt out.
It now seems from what TSB submitted with its business file that this didnt stop messages 
being received as clients would be warned that the name couldnt be matched. This wasnt 
clarified until after the final response. And although S has again been opted in the 
information about exactly what the problem was and whether it has now been solved was as 
a result unclear and our investigator asked about this.
TSB has now provided written assurance from the teams involved and it seems that as S 
has been opted in the matching should be working. As I mentioned above it is unclear what 
the issue was in 2021 taking into account that the name of S was also different then. 
I agree with our investigator that there are a number of unknowns here. But I dont think TSB 
showed it got to the root of the issue in April 2021 and it hasnt explained until now that 
opting out wouldnt avoid a message for S clients and provided evidence that the name 
matching is working for S.
In light of the related service issues and taking into account our published guidelines I 
consider that the recommended compensation is reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank plc to pay S a further 
£100 making a total of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman