DRN-3555398
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc has refused to refund payments she made to 
what she believed was a legitimate investment trading company.  These payments were 
made using Mrs Vs Sainsburys Bank Mastercard credit card.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, in March and April 2020, Mrs V made several payments to a company I will refer to 
as Company O in this decision.  She says she made these payments because at the time 
she believed this company to be a legitimate investment company.  However, Mrs V now 
claims she has fallen victim to a scam and lost all her money as a result.
Mrs V asked Sainsburys Bank to recover her money.  As this did not happen, she raised a 
complaint which was also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Vs complaint and did not uphold it, which Mrs V did 
not accept. As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
It is common ground that the payments in question were authorised by Mrs V for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  
This is because they were made by Mrs V using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to her by Sainsburys Bank.  These, therefore, must be regarded as authorised payments.  
This is important because, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of Mrs 
Vs bank account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.  But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice.
The first question I need to consider is whether Company O operated a scam at the time Mrs 
V made her payments to them.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as binary options is in fact a scam.  
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses.
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading.  However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).
In simpler terms, some platforms/merchants may have used sales and promotional methods 
that could be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but 
this does not always amount to fraud.
From what I have found, when Mrs V made her payments, Company O were regulated by 
CySEC; previously passported into the UK as they were an EEA based firm.
These passporting rights ended in June 2020 (so after Mrs Vs payments to Company O).
Mrs V argues that Company O were not FCA regulated at the time.  Whilst this is strictly 
speaking correct, Company O did have passporting rights during the period in question  so 
they were allowed to operate in the UK.
I must therefore take into account that there is strong evidence here  particularly because 
there was no FCA warning that was published at the material time  that Company O had 
not been identified as a fraudulent company when Mrs Vs payments were made.  
I do not shy away from the fact that there is negative information about Company O online.  
However, whilst I acknowledge this could be seen as circumstantial evidence that helps 
paint an overall picture of Company O  I am not persuaded that it is sufficient evidence of 
fraud.  I say this because I must place weight on credible evidence  that is, Company O 
were regulated by the CySEC  and passported into the UK  at the material time.
Finally, some banks may now choose not to allow transactions such as those Mrs V made, 
because of the risks involved.  But the fact remains that this was not an illegal activity, and 
many customers now demand faster payments out of their account  which the regulations 
are designed to facilitate. 
Sainsburys Banks duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it is not to give 
investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains.  Ultimately, Mrs V paid a 
legitimate company at the time.  To that end, I cannot safely conclude that Sainsburys Bank 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about Mrs Vs payments 
before they were let go.
Section 75, Consumer Credit Act 1974 and chargebackMrs V has expressed views about having section 75 rights.  However, based on the 
evidence before me, I am not satisfied that there is an identifiable action for breach of 
contract and/or misrepresentation  something which is required under the 1974 Act.  
Because of this, I do not take the view that Mrs V had section 75 rights regarding the 
payments she made to Company O.  For completeness, I have also considered whether Mrs 
V had the required evidence to engage chargeback rights.  Having done so, I am not 
persuaded she did under Mastercards chargeback scheme.  Therefore, I am unable to say 
Sainsburys Bank acted unfairly by not raising a chargeback claim on Mrs Vs behalf  as it is 
unlikely that such a claim had any reasonable prospect of success. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman