DRN-1617575
 
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the decision taken by Santander UK Plc to remove her overdraft 
facility, and place a default on her current account.  
What happened
Miss K had a current account with Santander. Miss Ks current account included an agreed 
overdraft facility for £2,000. Between the period December 2017- December 2018 Miss Ks 
current account remained in agreed overdraft, and on a few occasions went into unarranged 
overdraft. When this happened Miss K generally made payments into her account bringing it 
back to her agreed overdraft limit. 
In December 2018 Miss Ks account went into unarranged overdraft. Unarranged overdraft 
charges were applied to Miss Ks account in December and January 2019. 
Santander contacted Miss K in February and Miss K explained more about her 
circumstances. It was recorded that Miss K was out of work and receiving job-seekers 
allowance. Santander agreed to write off the unarranged overdraft charges applied in 
December and January. 
In March Miss K received a letter explaining that her account remained in unarranged 
overdraft, and the unarranged overdraft amount of £50.17 remained outstanding. The letter 
also explained all direct debits from her current account had been cancelled, and a block 
had been placed on her debit card. 
In April Miss K was sent a further letter requesting payment of the unarranged overdraft 
amount of £50.17. Miss K contacted Santander and it was recorded that Miss K was out of 
work and due to be evicted. It was agreed that Miss K would make reduced payments of £20 
each month to clear the outstanding balance on her account, which remained in unarranged 
overdraft. 
In May Miss K received a further letter explaining the unarranged overdraft amount of £50.17 
remained outstanding. Miss K contacted Santander on 28 May, and it was agreed that £10 a 
month would be a more affordable monthly repayment, and the next payment would be due 
by 28 June. Miss K was also informed that her account was due to be reviewed on 1 June. 
On 1 June Santander decided to remove Miss Ks overdraft facility. Miss K was not sent any 
communication from Santander at the time explaining this had happened. 
On 27 June Miss K contacted Santander as shed not made the payment due for June. It 
was agreed that the arrangement to pay £10 a month would continue, and the next payment 
was due by 27 July. 
Miss K made a payment of £10 into her account on 27 July, and 27 August. Santander tried to contact Miss K to discuss her current account. It was recorded Customer 
has an arrangement in place £10 a monththis will not clear balance in 15 months new 
arrangement needed. 
Miss K spoke to a Santander rep in September, and was told the arrangement on 27 June 
shouldnt have been agreed, as the overdraft facility had been removed on 1 June. Miss K 
confirmed her circumstances were the same, and that shed be unable to pay the £135 a 
month required to clear the outstanding balance on her account in 15 months. Santander 
offered to discuss payment options with Miss K however she remained unhappy with the 
overdraft facility being removed without notice. Santander offered Miss K £50 for the 
incorrect information provided to her in June. They said this arrangement shouldnt have 
been made. Santander also said that the decision to remove Miss Ks overdraft facility in 
June was fair, and didnt offer any compensation in respect of this complaint. 
Miss K was unhappy with this response, saying that she couldnt afford to pay £135 a month, 
and Santander had acted unreasonably by removing her overdraft facility when an 
arrangement had been made for her to make payments for £10 a month. On 31 October 
Miss K was served a default notice. In December a default was registered against Miss K for 
non-payment of the outstanding overdraft balance. 
Miss K brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for us to investigate. The 
investigator found that Santanders offer for £50 was fair, as the decision to remove the 
overdraft was reasonable. The investigator didnt recommend Santander do anything more 
in settlement of the complaint. Miss K disagreed with this, saying that Santander had made 
an agreement with her in June, and she was called three months later and told that her 
overdraft had already been removed. She also said Santander have put her in a worse 
financial situation and the £2,000 default is nothing compared to six years on a credit file. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
When a business becomes aware of a customer being in financial difficulty, wed expect a 
business to treat their customer fairly and empathetically. This includes having regular, 
informative conversations with their customer about their financial standing and personal 
circumstances, and taking positive steps to provide support. 
When Miss Ks account went into unarranged overdraft for two consecutive months in 
December 2018 and January 2019, Santander contacted Miss K to discuss her 
circumstances, and understand more about her income and outgoings. I think these actions 
were fair. Miss K explained that she was out of work. It was clear from this conversation that 
Miss K was struggling to maintain payments towards her overdraft, and that this situation 
may continue. Because of this, Santander agreed to refund the unarranged overdraft 
charges for December and January. Ive also seen that no further charges have been 
applied to Miss Ks account since. Miss K received letters throughout March- May explaining that her account remained in 
unarranged overdraft, and the unarranged overdraft amount of £50.17 remained 
outstanding. Santander didnt apply any unarranged overdraft charges for this period despite 
the terms and conditions of Miss Ks current account allowing them to do so. As Miss K 
remained out of work and was receiving state benefits, I think these actions were fair. 
Miss Ks account was reviewed on 1 June, and a decision as made to remove the overdraft 
facility. Miss K shouldve been told this information on 27 June, when she thought the 
overdraft was still active. Instead Santander said they would accept £10 a month as payment 
towards the outstanding balance starting 27 July, and that this arrangement could continue.
Miss K made no payments into her account between January- June 2019. I accept that Miss 
K did contact Santander during this time, and there was agreement from Santander about 
what payments would be accepted. Although agreements were put in place, Miss K didnt 
make any payments. Miss K did call Santander each time and explain why payment wouldnt 
be made. But this doesnt change the way the current account was being managed. The 
evidence supports that Miss K wasnt in a position to make reasonable payments towards 
reducing the overdraft. 
Miss K says that Santander have admitted to her that they made errors. During the calls with 
Miss K in May and June, I think Santander couldve been clearer with Miss K about what 
would happen with her account if reasonable payments werent made to clear the 
outstanding balance. But even if Santander had been clearer to Miss K about the overdraft 
being removed in June, I dont think Miss K wouldve been in a position to clear more of the 
outstanding balance, than the £10 she had offered. So I think removal of the overdraft, and 
default application is what wouldve likely happened in any event. 
Miss K says shes ended up in a worse financial situation. I appreciate Miss Ks comments 
that it wouldnt have been affordable for her to pay £135 a month to clear the outstanding 
balance in the 15 months provided by Santander. She says Santander shouldve allowed her 
to continue paying the reduced payments of £10 which were affordable, and which 
Santander had agreed to. Wed expect a business to be flexible and fair in response to a 
customer who is struggling to maintain a credit facility. 
Santander had provided Miss K with a current account which offered both an arranged 
overdraft of £2,000 (which Miss K depended on), and an unarranged overdraft. Although 
Miss K used her unarranged overdraft, she wasnt able to make any repayments for six 
months. Santander didnt apply any arranged or unarranged overdraft charges during the 
period January- June 2019 when no payments were received into the account. But I dont 
think it wouldve been fair on Miss K or Santander for this arrangement to have continued. 
The nominal payments made by Miss K in July and August would likely have been reviewed 
by Santander. If this hadnt had happened in June, it wouldve happened soon after. 
The £50 compensation offered to Miss K is fair for the lack of clear communication with Miss 
K about the overdraft facility being removed. But having looked at Miss Ks management of 
her current account, and history of non-payments over a significant period, I think the 
decision to remove the overdraft facility to avoid additional charges being applied in line with 
the account terms and conditions was fair. 
I can appreciate Miss Ks comments about the default on her credit file impacting her for the 
next six years. But I cant say Santanders decision to apply this default has been 
unreasonable. There were no payments made between January- June 2019. Miss K made 
two payments for £10 in July and August. No further payments were made. I can understand Miss Ks frustrations, as the amount being requested by Santander of £135 
was unaffordable to her. However the credit facility provided by Santander was repayable 
within 30 days notice as stated in the terms and conditions for Miss Ks account. Santander 
discussed payment to clear the outstanding balance when Miss K was made aware that the 
overdraft facility had been removed. Miss K was provided with a default notice in October, 
and the default was registered in December. Although I appreciate Miss Ks disappointment 
with the way things have happened, I think the steps taken by Santander were reasonable, 
and in line with what wed expect prior to a default being registered.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman