DRN-3534954
The complaint
Ms H complains about the quality of a conservatory supplied and installed by a company that
I will call S, funded by way of a fixed-sum loan agreement (agreement) with Clydesdale
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).
What happened
Ms H decided to have a conservatory supplied and installed by S, funded by way of an
agreement with BPF.
The cash price of the conservatory was £33,800. Under the terms of the agreement Ms H
undertook, everything else being equal, to pay BPF 180 monthly payments of £352.54,
making a total repayable (at an APR of 9.9% variable) of £63,457.20.
Ms H says work commenced in February 2018 with an agreed completion date of six weeks,
but the work wasnt completed until July 2018.
Ms H says that after the work was completed she started to experience problems with the
conservatory.
Ms H says that following installation of the conservatory some remedial works were needed,
with some being undertaken by S and some by a third party. Ms H says some remedial
works were required to be undertaken by a third party (appointed by BPF) because S
refused to undertake those works itself.
Ms H says that on more than one occasion BPF advised her that its decision to appoint a
third party to undertake remedial works (in the absence of S agreeing to do so) wouldnt
invalidate the ten-year guarantee provided to her by S for the supply and installation of the
conservatory.
Ms H says she decided to move and asked S to transfer the 10-year guarantee to the
purchaser of her property. But S responded to say that as remedial work had been
undertaken by a third party (not appointed by it) the guarantee was now void. In other words,
there was no guarantee to transfer.
Ms H then moved with the purchaser of her property not getting the benefit of the guarantee
issued to Ms H in 2018 by S.
Ms H complained to BPF that its advice that the guarantee wouldnt be affected by its
decision to appoint a third party to carry out remedial work on the conservatory had turned
out to be incorrect.
On 3 December 2020 BPF sent Ms H a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL
BPF said:
It was unable to overturn S decision to treat the guarantee as void.
Any future work required to the conservatory wouldnt be covered by S guarantee.
It would no longer be liable to Ms H under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (section 75) for any future work required to the conservatory because the
property (to which the conservatory was attached) had been sold by Ms H.
It accepted that its service had been poor, including advising Ms H (incorrectly) that
the guarantee wouldnt be affected by its decision to appoint a third party to carry out
remedial works to the conservatory. And for this it was prepared to pay her £150,
which it did.
On 20 April 2021 Ms H complained further to BPF, which was acknowledged by BPF on
28 April 2021.
On 4 May 2021 Ms H sent BPF an email. Under cover of this email Ms H said she had
received BPFs FRL dated 3 December 2020, but she disagreed with the content of it and
wanted the matter reinvestigated. She then went on to say that she wanted to settle her
debt, but felt her settlement liability should, for various reasons, be reduced by 50%.
On 10 June 2021 Ms H sent BPF a further email chasing a response to her email of
4 May 2021.
On 12 July 2021 Ms H referred her complaint to our service for investigation.
On 30 July 2021 BPF wrote to Ms H to say, in summary:
It no longer had liability to her under section 75 because she was no longer the
owner of the goods subject to the finance.
In any event, there were no outstanding section 75 claims from her.
All her previous section 75 claims had been addressed/settled.
Her concerns about being misinformed that S guarantee wouldnt be affected by its
decision to appoint a third party to carry out various remedial works and her request
for a reduced settlement liability would be addressed by it (as a complaint) under
separate cover.
Ms Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
had been referred to our service too late, it having been referred to our service more than
six months after BPFs response dated 3 December 2020.
Ms H didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint was passed to me for
review and decision.
In January 2022 I issued a provisional decision concluding that we couldnt consider any
complaints addressed by BPF under cover of its FRL dated 3 December 2020 because
Ms H had referred these to our service too late. But we could consider her complaint that
BPF should, for various reasons, reduce her settlement liability by 50%.
Ms H responded to say that she reluctantly accepted my provisional decision that our service
could only consider her complaint about BPFs refusal to reduce her settlement liability by
50% (for various reasons) and not her complaints addressed under cover of BPFs FRL
dated 3 December 2020.BPF responded to say that Ms Hs complaint about wanting a 50% reduction in her
settlement liability was logged as a separate complaint with a FRL being issued in respect of
the same on 13 July 2021. BPF provided our service with a copy of this FRL under which it
said it wasnt prepared to reduce Ms Hs settlement liability (by any amount) because there
were no current faults requiring repair, all previous faults had been repaired (free of charge)
and it had made a number of payments already to Ms H for distress and inconvenience that
might have been caused. However, it went on to say it was prepared to pay Ms H £150 for
poor service.
Following my provisional decision, and both parties responses to it, the investigator issued a
further view. In summary she said that having offered Ms H £150 BPF need do nothing
further.
I got the investigator to ask both parties for some further information. BPF provided what I
had asked for (by the date given) but Ms H didnt. However, I was satisfied that I didnt need 
to wait for the further information requested of Ms H before issuing a provisional decision.
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both parties have
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that the parties will not take the fact
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and
reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ms H complained to BPF in 2020, a complaint which was addressed by BPF under cover of
its FRL dated 3 December 2020.
As explained to both parties previously, our service cant consider this complaint any further
because it was referred to our service (for investigation/consideration) too late.
What Ms H complained about to BPF in 2020 (and which BPF addressed under cover of its
FRL dated 3 December 2020) was that BPF had incorrectly advised her, on more than one
occasion, that the conservatory guarantee issued by S wouldnt be affected by its decision to
appoint a third party to carry out various remedial works. It didnt address Ms Hs concerns
about the quality of the conservatory supplied and installed by S, the amount of remedial
work that needed to be undertaken on the conservatory (and which was undertaken), the
distress and inconvenience the whole issue had caused her (and her family) and her request
for a 50% reduction in her settlement liability.Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) allows a customer to submit a
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their creditor. But it only
applies in certain limited circumstances. One of these is the single item bought must have
cost no more than £30,000. Here, the conservatory had a cash price of £33,800. So,
section 75 doesnt apply.
Section 75A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75A) doesnt cover
misrepresentation. But it does cover breach of contract, which is what Ms H is complaining
about. Again, this section only applies in certain limited circumstances. Here, though, the key
consideration (amongst others which arent in dispute) is whether the credit exceeded
£60,260. When entering into the agreement Ms H took out £33,800 of credit. This is less
than £60,260, so section 75A does apply.
As Im satisfied Ms H can make a claim against BPF for a breach of contract on the part of
S, Ive gone on to consider whether S breached its contract with Ms H. The Consumer
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint.
Under sections 9 of the CRA, any goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  that is,
they must meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  and
under section 49 any service provided must be performed with reasonable care and skill.
Reasonable care and skill isnt defined in the CRA. However, its generally held to mean the
degree of care and skill to be expected of a member of that profession of ordinary
competence and experience.
In this case its my view that a reasonable person would consider a new conservatory
costing £33,800 would be installed with care and skill and that it would, post supply and
installation, be free from any defects.
Given the amount of remedial works that were required (undertaken by S and a third party
appointed by BPF) Im satisfied that the goods (conservatory) werent of satisfactory quality
when supplied and/or they were installed by S without reasonable care and skill and that
BPF (under section 75A) is jointly responsible for these breaches together with S.
Having concluded that BPF is responsible for the poor quality and installation of Ms Hs
conservatory Ive gone on to consider what, if anything, BPF is liable (to Ms H) for.
Based on what both parties have said and submitted, Im satisfied that all remedial works
that were required in respect of the conservatory were carried out by S, or the third party
appointed by BPF, and carried out at no cost to Ms H. Therefore, Im not persuaded that
BPF needs to do anything further in this respect even ignoring the fact that Ms H no longer
owns the house to which the conservatory is attached.
I know Ive said that BPF is equally liable with S for any breach of its contract with Ms H. But
generally, the remedy for breach of contract will not include compensation for distress and
inconvenience. That is, its not an award that a court is likely to have made against S,
although its an award that I can make against BPF, if I determine the complaint in favour of
Ms H.
I dont underestimate the distress and inconvenience this whole matter, over a number of
months, caused Ms H. However, I think that S was better placed  having the necessary
technical knowledge and contacts  than BPF to resolve the issues with the conservatory.
Im also satisfied that BPF did all it reasonably could to get S to undertake the necessary
remedial works and when S didnt do so it instructed its own third party to do the same in a
timely and appropriate manner.In other words, Im not persuaded that BPF could realistically have done much more here,
especially as Ms H was herself in touch with S. I also think its worth pointing out that Ms H
appears to have already received compensation from S and BPF of, but not limited to, a
price reduction of £1,800, a loan reduction of £624 and approximately £1,000 in distress and
inconvenience payments.
So, with the above in mind, Im satisfied that BPFs offer of a further £150 represents an
appropriate sum for it to have to pay Ms H for any distress and inconvenience its failures
might have caused, and it need do nothing further in this respect.
BPF responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Ms H responded to say she wasnt happy with my provisional findings and, in summary, that 
it was unfair that she had to continue paying what BPF was holding her liable for under the 
agreement. She said a fairer outcome would be for her to have to repay the capital to BPF 
due under the agreement, but not the interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ms Hs dissatisfaction with my provisional findings. But given she has 
provided nothing materially new for my consideration and given that BPF has confirmed it 
has nothing further to add, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now 
confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays
Partner Finance should pay Ms H £150 in respect of this complaint, but it need do nothing
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman