DRN-3495723
The complaint
Miss S is dissatisfied that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) are 
unwilling to reduce or waive interest and restructure her credit card debt with them.
What happened
Miss S has a credit card account with Virgin. She believes this was first opened in or around 
March 2015. 
Miss S wrote to Virgin in July 2021. She said shed always met her minimum payments each 
month. But due to the impact of the global pandemic in 2020, her income had been 
adversely affected which meant she hadnt been able to pay as much as shed done 
previously.
Miss S told Virgin Im not a customer in financial difficulty right now. But she said continuing 
to pay only the monthly minimum would take several years to repay her debt. She wanted 
Virgin to support her by varying the agreement enabling repayment of the amount owed, 
interest free, over 32 months. Miss S noted that Virgin were offering new customers a 
balance transfer rate of 0% for 29 months in addition to monthly payment plans.
Later in July 2021, Miss S called Virgin about her letter. She wanted them to agree to help 
her repay the outstanding debt quicker and again referenced offers available to new Virgin 
customers. Miss S was concerned her financial situation may deteriorate in the future. Virgin 
said the promotional rates were only available to new customers and any specialist 
assistance would only apply if she was in financial difficulty. Virgin offered to raise a 
complaint, but Miss S insisted she wasnt complaining. She just wanted a written response to 
her letter.
Miss S wrote to Virgin again at the end of September as she still hadnt received a written 
response.
In December 2021, Virgin wrote to Miss S. They referenced a complaint about Miss Ss call 
in July and upheld this in part. They accepted their agent had suggested a written response 
to Miss Ss query might be possible, but it wasnt sent. They credited £75 to Miss Ss 
account and waived charges and interest for January 2022. They confirmed Miss S wasnt 
eligible for a promotional rate and couldnt transfer her existing debt to another Virgin 
product. Virgin also provided a contact number for their specialist team who may be able to 
discuss alternative specialist solutions.
Miss S wrote to Virgin again in January 2022. She said she hadnt specifically complained, 
so wanted them to reverse the payment of £75. Miss S didnt agree with Virgins findings and 
referred to principles within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. She didnt think Virgin were 
meeting their obligations. Virgin didnt agree and stood by their original findings.
Virgins written responses offered Miss S the option to refer matters to this service. Despite 
Miss Ss assertions she wasnt complaining to Virgin, she chose to do that.
Having considered all the facts and information available, our investigator didnt think Virgin 
had acted unreasonably or needed to do anything more. Miss S didnt agree with our 
investigators findings. She asked for an ombudsman to consider the situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin have treated Miss Ss concerns as a complaint. And having considered everything, I 
think they were right to do that here. I also believe its important to explain our role when 
considering Miss Ss complaint. This service was established in 2000 as an Alternative 
Dispute Resolution (ADR) service, specifically to resolve disputes between consumers and 
financial services businesses in the UK. It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate 
or impose fines on any business. Its also not our role to ask a business to alter their 
procedures, policies or processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to 
their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Miss Ss experience with them. When considering Miss Ss referral, Ive 
also considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply. 
Miss S has, at all times, emphasised she is not currently in financial difficulty - both verbally 
and in writing. But she has expressed concerns that her earnings potential has been 
impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. Shes concerned her financial situation could 
deteriorate. Before it does, she wants Virgin to provide support and/or concessions to enable 
her to repay the amount she owes more quickly.
Virgin said theyre unable to reduce the interest rate on Miss Ss account and that she isnt 
eligible for any promotional rates currently offered to potential new customers. Miss S 
continues to make the required minimum payments without apparent difficulty. Accepting 
Miss S will be disappointed, this service is unable to influence or dictate the price at which 
Virgin chooses to do business. That is a business decision which Virgin are entitled to make. 
That said, I dont think it would be fair for Virgin to offer Miss S a concessionary rate without 
then also offering that to other existing customers.
Miss Ss credit card account is subject to an agreement issued under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA). Having considered the CCA agreement and what happened, I found no 
evidence that Virgin have breached those terms. When applying for her credit card, Miss S 
agreed to be bound by that agreement. There is no requirement for Virgin to reduce the 
interest rate Miss S pays in these circumstances.
Miss S has referred to the various principles within the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). She suggests Virgin havent complied with those principles. Im familiar with the 
contents and principles within CONC and have considered Virgins actions against these. 
While Miss S may disagree, Ive found no evidence to suggest Virgin have acted 
unreasonably or unfairly towards her.
Ive also listened to a recording of Miss Ss call with Virgins collections team in February 
2022. They explained options could only be discussed in detail once a full analysis of her 
financial situation had been completed. Virgins website also clearly states that a financial 
budget should be completed where consumers are concerned about their finances. Miss S 
chose not to discuss that in any detail. But Virgin did provide basic details of options 
available. They stressed they were only for situations of financial difficulty.CONC Section 7 says lenders should consider consumers in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration. Examples include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges.
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively.
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from unexpected reduction in income.
Lenders should inform the consumer that free debt advice is available and provide 
details.
Lenders shouldnt refuse reasonable affordable repayment proposals made by the 
borrower, debt counsellor or other person authorised by borrower.
Its important to recognise that the principles in this section are set as guidance rather than 
rules to be followed. Further, there is no provision within CONC guiding Virgin to reduce or 
waive interest where theres no evidence of financial difficulty. And as Miss S has been 
insistent throughout that this is the case, I cant reasonably say that Virgin have done 
anything wrong here. I recognise Miss S feels very strongly that Virgin should provide a 
concession to support her aspiration to reduce her debt with them more quickly, avoiding 
potential future problems. But as Ive said above, thats a business decision for Virgin. And 
not one this service is able to influence.
Miss S also suggests that while Virgin may believe theyre complying with the current 
regulatory rules and guidance, that compliance hasnt led to a fair and reasonable outcome 
in her case. Im sorry Miss S feels that way, but I cant reasonably say Virgin have done 
anything wrong here. And while Miss S might consider the principles in CONC here to be 
unfair, Im unable to influence their content or context. I do want to acknowledge Miss Ss 
attempts to take positive steps to address potential problems before they arise. And I would 
strongly recommend she seek independent debt advice and support, should she feel it 
necessary.
Miss S has since sent a further letter, received from Virgin, to this service. It also relates to 
her credit card account. But as this doesnt form part of the original discussions addressed in 
Virgins response, Im unable to comment on this specifically. If Miss S is unhappy with any 
of Virgins subsequent actions or letters, she should refer any complaint to Virgin first to 
consider.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman