DRN-4114681
The complaint
Mr C has complained that TSB Bank plc wont reimburse him money he paid out for a 
wedding that didnt go ahead. 
What happened
Mr C entered into a contract with a wedding venue company that Ill call E for a wedding to 
take place in April 2021. The total cost was £4,495. He paid a £600 deposit using his TSB 
credit card on 1 April 2020 and made monthly transfers of £389.50 for the next six months. 
The contract was signed on 12 May 2020. 
In October 2020 Mr C contacted E to discuss how much had been paid; what his options 
were in the circumstances relating to Covid-19 at that time; whether there was any scope for 
postponement; whether cancellation was an option, if not why and what penalties would be 
incurred. E responded to provide details of what was left to pay, the contract thatd been 
signed and it offered to postpone the wedding. 
On 3 November 2020 Mr C contacted E to say With regret there will be no wedding on 
Wedding 17 April 2021I will be unable to postpone the wedding to another date. We have 
found the situation intangible. Where do we go from here! 
It looks like Mr C contacted E by phone. E responded to say it would prefer correspondence 
in writing and it referred to certain sections of the contract. The sections it referred to said: 
1.2 All payments made are non refundable.

3.1 A £600 non-refundable deposit is required to reserve the date.

6.2 All deposits and payments are non-refundable. 
Mr C continued to speak to E and it offered to move the wedding date. Mr C had some 
questions about how that would work and how the Covid-19 pandemic would impact the 
wedding. He thought that in April 2021 it was highly likely restrictions would be in place, and 
that it would have a major impact on the wedding. So he asked what would happen in that 
situation  would he receive a refund or discount. E responded to say it had dates available 
for 2022, 2023 and 2024. It clarified the amount Mr C had paid at that point (£2,937). And it 
let him know more about the different prices it charged throughout the year. 
E said Mr C wrote to it on 8 December 2020 and mentioned the contract had unfair terms in 
it. E says Mr C wrote to it again on 8 January 2021 attaching an open letter from the 
Competitions and Markets Authority (CMA) about weddings affected by Covid-19. E asked a 
representative to respond to say if Mr C wanted to pursue things further it suggested he 
obtain legal help. 
Mr C responded to say he denied hed cancelled the contract and he highlighted that in the 
unprecedented times it wasnt acceptable for the venue to keep all payments and not 
negotiate. He said terms such as 1.2 are not acceptable and are contrary to government 
guidance and contract law. He said he was happy to negotiate.
Es representative said it would offer Mr C a single payment of £1,168.50  equivalent to 
three instalments of £389.50. 
Mr C decided to obtain his own representation who put in a letter of claim to E. And it asked 
for a full refund by 31 March 2021. Es representative said it wasnt prepared to make a full 
refund and reiterated its previous offer. Mr Cs representative said Mr C would be willing to 
accept £2,500 in full and final settlement. E increased the offer to £1,558 but things werent 
resolved for Mr C, so he contacted TSB to put in a claim for money back. He requested a 
refund of everything hed paid E. 
Over the next couple of months Mr C spoke to TSB about the claim. It looks like Mr C was 
getting frustrated TSB kept asking for information he said hed sent in. So he raised a 
complaint. As things werent resolved for him, Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in November 2021. 
Our investigator didnt make any recommendations. She said she thought Mr C had 
cancelled the contract in November 2020 when he told E thered be no wedding and stopped 
his payments. She said Mr C agreed to Es terms saying payments were non-refundable. 
And that they were sufficiently disclosed to him. Ultimately our investigator said there was no 
breach of contract so there was no valid section 75 claim. And as Mr C had requested a full 
refund of everything paid, she didnt think it was unreasonable TSB didnt raise a 
chargeback. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary, he said:
He didnt cancel the contract. He was told to cancel the wedding he and his wife 
would need to write in with reasons why to do so. And theyd need to sign to confirm. 
Hed paid the deposit before hed seen the contract. 
Hed not agreed to pay monthly  E simply emailed invoices to his partner. 
E had relisted the venue in January 2021. 
It was very difficult to plan a wedding during lockdown. There was plenty of evidence 
to indicate there would have been restrictions, but E wouldnt discuss this. 
E didnt confirm the wedding would have been able to go ahead in April 2021 and 
Mr C needed at least six months to plan things. 
The contract was signed before restrictions were in place, so it hadnt taken into 
account the effects of Covid-19. 
E cant rely on terms that are unfair. 
E was reported to the CMA. 
E misled Mr C by saying he could postpone the wedding rather than refund him. 
E would need to prove the wedding could go ahead on 17 April 2021. 
E wouldnt give details of the costs it had incurred and its not fair it retained £2,937.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr C 
and TSB that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this. Im very sorry to hear that as a result of Covid-19 the wedding couldnt go ahead as planned. 
But in order for me to decide whether its fair for TSB to reimburse Mr C I have to think about 
its obligations as a provider of financial services under the specific card protections that are 
available  in this case chargeback and section 75. Its important to note that TSB isnt the 
supplier here. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) makes TSB jointly liable for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (under certain conditions). Its not been 
disputed the technical conditions for a valid claim to be considered exist. And I agree it looks 
like thats the case. 
Has there been a breach of contract or misrepresentation? A breach of contract occurs when 
one party to an agreement breaks either its explicitly agreed terms, or terms which are 
treated as included  for example because thats what the law says must happen. A 
misrepresentation is a false state of fact which a person relies on when deciding to, for 
example, enter a contract. 
Ive referred to the terms in the contract within the background that highlight payments made 
are non-refundable. Mr C signed the contract, albeit after hed paid the deposit. And the 
terms are reasonably prominent. When Mr C asked E about the option to cancel he was told 
he could do this but payments were non-refundable, as per the contract. 
Overall, I think the booking with E was non-refundable in the event Mr C wanted to cancel 
the booking. I dont think this was misrepresented to him. 
But theres a dispute whether Mr C cancelled the booking or not. E says he did but Mr C 
says he didnt. When Mr C said the wedding wouldnt be going ahead in April 2021 and that 
hed be unable to postpone it to another date I can understand why E may have thought he 
intended to cancel. But he entered into further discussions with E, so Im not persuaded the 
cancellation was formally exercised. I think Mr C was worried about a potentially frustrated 
contract  that is through no fault of either party, due to the potential restrictions of Covid-19 
his wedding would be radically different to what was originally agreed, if it could be 
performed at all. 
If I accept Mr C didnt cancel the contract, E didnt break the contract by not issuing a refund 
because the contract says the payments are non-refundable and Mr C stopped paying for 
the wedding  which could also explain why E relisted the venue. 
Ive thought about the CMA guidance Mr C has mentioned which points to scenarios where 
the contract would have been frustrated. I note Mr Cs representative said the same. It said 
We are confident the Court would find the Contract has been frustrated and our clients are 
entitled to a full refund. 
While it might be possible to argue the contract may have been frustrated, this is not the 
same as breach of contract  its a different legal doctrine. And its not one of the types of 
claim that is covered by section 75. So, while I know Mr C will be disappointed, and that he 
may be able to take the supplier to court to recover sums under the Law Reform (Frustrated 
Contracts) Act 1945, I dont find a potentially frustrated contract ought to have led to a 
successful claim with TSB. 
Ive also thought about what Mr C has said about the terms of the contract being unfair. 
Given an example of an unfair term could be where the consumer has to pay a 
disproportionately high sum in compensation if they decide not to conclude a contract, I think 
Es cancellation terms could be considered unfair. In those circumstances, the effect of the 
unfair term is that the part of the term that isnt fair is read out of the contract. But that doesnt allow me to read new language in that re-writes the contract  for example by saying 
that a fair proportion of any pre-paid sum is recoverable. The rest of the contract is silent on 
this point. Therefore, even if I were to say Mr C shouldnt be bound by Es cancellation 
terms, I still cant point towards a breach of contract that means he should be refunded some 
or all of what hes paid. 
In summary, it may be that there has been a total failure of consideration and/or frustration, 
so that a court would find E has been unjustly enriched at Mr Cs expense. And it may be 
that Mr C is entitled to recover sums from E. But this means he may have a legal claim 
against E through restitution or under statute. The difficulty here is that this way of achieving 
justice is not based on a breach of contract  which is what TSB could be liable for. Claims 
in restitution and under statute are outside of the scope of section 75. 
Ive finally thought about chargeback. The process is subject to rules made by the relevant 
card schemes. Its not a guaranteed way of getting a refund. There are time limits and 
chargeback reason codes to consider. Id only expect a firm to raise a chargeback where 
theres a reasonable prospect of success. The problem here, for similar reasons to what Ive 
said above, is that I dont think there was an appropriate chargeback reason code that 
wouldve applied here that wouldve had a reasonable prospect of success. Mr C wasnt due 
a refund if he cancelled. And if he didnt cancel, Ive not seen enough to show another 
reason code would have likely been successful either. Moreover, chargeback would have 
only covered the amount Mr C paid using his card (the deposit), and he wanted a full refund. 
While I have a lot of sympathy for what happened, I do have to consider the complaint about 
how TSB handled the claim thinking about its liability as a provider of financial services. And 
based on what Ive seen I dont think there are grounds to direct it to refund Mr C. I should 
however reiterate Mr C is able to pursue the claim by other means, such as through the 
courts. 
TSB didnt respond initially, but Mr C did. He didnt agree with the provisional decision. He 
thought it lacked detail and factual specifics. In summary, he said:
He paid for a wedding venue and accommodation. The wedding was taking place in 
a Church. 
Es representative was a legal representative.
Theres no mention of the terms relating to the offer made by Es representative. One 
being that it could reclaim the money unless Mr C kept the settlement confidential. 
Mr C had been in touch with TSB for 9 months as he first contacted it in April 2021. 
TSB didnt respond with due care and attention. 
Under regulations any attempt to mislead a customer is a criminal offence. 
Findings should be based on facts and not assumptions. 
Mr C didnt break the contract in any way. E relisted the venue while he still had time 
to complete payment. 
The supplier broke the contract before it could be considered frustrated. And that the 
venue was not open. 
 He should have been given more time and not been misled or misinformed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr C for his response. Once again, I do want to make it very clear that Im 
very sympathetic to the situation. I cant imagine how frustrated and disappointed Mr C is. He should have been able to enjoy the whole process of booking his wedding. But I also 
need to consider what TSB is liable for as a provider of financial services. TSB is not the 
supplier.  
I agree Mr C paid for a venue and accommodation. And that Es representative was a legal 
representative. Ive not considered the terms relating to the offer made by Es representative 
because TSB isnt responsible for those terms. That offer doesnt form part of the contract 
that was part-funded by credit from TSB. 
However, I agree Mr C spoke to TSB for longer than he should have needed to. And I can 
appreciate why he was getting frustrated. TSB says it didnt have all the information it 
needed, but I think it ought to have been clearer with Mr C given hed already sent a lot of 
the information it had requested in his initial claim pack. I appreciate it was an 
unprecedented time that affected firms in different ways. But by mid-2021 I think TSB ought 
to have been able to respond sooner. It looks like TSB was always going to decline the claim 
because the contract clearly says payments are non-refundable. But, even taking into 
account those circumstances, I still think it took too long for Mr C to get an answer. And it 
ought to have been handled better. 
I arranged for the parties to be told I thought TSB should pay Mr C £200 in recognition of the 
way things were handled. I also supplied evidence that demonstrated the contact that took 
place throughout 2021 to TSB. Mr C didnt add anything further. TSB said it wasnt bound by 
timescales for a section 75 claim. And that it was dealing with a high volume of claims due to 
Covid-19 related cancellations. It also said it was disappointing the focus had switched to 
service issues. And that £200 is more than it would expect to be awarded when the delay 
had no impact on the eventual outcome. 
While I take on board TSBs comments. I think that £200 is fair in all the circumstances for 
the reasons Ive set out above. I think despite the impact of Covid-19, had TSB been clearer 
and fairer in its communications with Mr C he would have had an answer much sooner than 
he did. He could have avoided a lot of waiting and worrying about what was going to 
happen, at what was already a difficult time. And while I appreciate there may not be a 
specific timescale for dealing with section 75 claims, having considered things holistically, I 
think the £200 is fair in all the circumstances. 
Mr C has referred to criminal offences and regulations. But as I set out in my provisional 
decision, the complaint Im considering is against TSB. And I need to think about what it can 
be held liable for  and thats limited to breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. And 
while I appreciate Mr C wants everything to be based on facts, Ive considered the evidence 
thats been presented. And where things are inconclusive or contradictory Im required to 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities.  
Mr C has referred again to the supplier relisting the venue. But I do have to bear in mind that 
it relisted it after Mr C told it the wedding wasnt going ahead on the date originally planned 
for. I appreciate Mr C was still within the time period to pay for the wedding venue in full. But 
I dont think that matters because hed already told it the wedding wasnt going ahead on that 
day.
Mr C thinks he should have been given more time. But Im mindful that the supplier was 
quite responsive when he got in touch with it. And it did try to accommodate him by 
discussing alternative dates. In any event, Im still not convinced there are the grounds to 
say that theres been a breach of contract that TSB should be liable for. And while Mr C has 
supplied a copy of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance for firms dealing with 
customers seeking refunds upon cancelled events, this was intended to remind firms about 
how to deal with claims. It doesnt demonstrate theres been a breach of contract by the supplier here  which is what I need to consider. So, other than directing TSB to pay 
compensation, Im not making any other directions.   
However, for the avoidance of doubt, Im not saying something has not gone wrong here. 
But that Mr C may have to pursue the main thrust of his complaint by other means  such as 
through the courts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and 
that I direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr C £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman