DRN-4199539
The complaint
Miss L complains of a problem with a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF). She would like BMF to refund the cost of a repair and 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Miss L says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a nine-year-old car with 80,875 
miles on the clock in May 2022. In November 2022 Miss L says she had the car inspected at 
a garage who advised the engine needed to be replaced which she subsequently arranged 
at a cost of £3000 in December 2022.
BMF had an independent inspection carried out which concluded there was no evidence the 
fault was present or developing at the point of sale so, did not agree to cover the cost of the 
repair.
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
Miss L took out an agreement for a nine-year-old car with over 80,000 miles on the 
clock when she got it. She might reasonably have expected more wear , tear, and 
repair costs with a used car rather than with a new one. Having said that we expect 
cars to befit for purpose at the point of sale.
When  issues arise within six months of getting a car we usually say its down to the 
business to investigate to see if there is a point-of-sale issue for which it is 
responsible. In this case both parties provided reports  Miss L from the garage she 
took the car to when it failed, and BMF from an independent investigator.
I carefully considered these reports. The information from the garage Miss L took the 
car to set out what was wrong with the car in list form noting  the car didnt start, the 
coolant bottle was empty and smelt of fuel, the spark plug was contaminated with 
coolant, there was too little compression in the engine, there was an internal fault 
with the engine and head gasket failure. It concluded with advice that the engine be 
replaced.
However, the garage report didnt give any view as to whether the faults were 
present or developing at the point of sale or whether there could have been any 
contributory factors to the car failure such as Miss Ls maintenance of the car. Miss L 
told us the garage told her she shouldnt have needed to top the coolant up within the 
six months she had the car, but I had no confirmation of that.
The independent report was detailed. It found the car to be unkept internally and 
externally with a missing fuel cap, no coolant in the reservoir, dent damage to the 
offside quarter panel, and kerb damage to the alloy wheels. Whilst I appreciated the 
state of the car wouldnt lead to engine failure it did raise some concerns as to how 
well Miss L looked after the car.
The independent report concluded the car had not been properly maintained noting it 
was the driver responsibility to check engine levels regularly which it felt hadnt been 
done. It found no coolant in the expansion tank and no evidence of a coolant leak 
around the engine bay. It noted if the car had been run at elevated temperatures with 
insufficient coolant in the system this may have caused the engine failure. It also 
noted the oil had been overfilled and was very clean indicating a recent top up 
suggesting the car appeared to have been run without sufficient oil in the sump 
,another potential cause of engine seizure
Finally, the independent report concluded that there was no evidence of a fault being 
present or developing at the point of sale that would have caused the engine to fail.
For me to tell BMF to cover the cost of the repair and any other reasonable 
associated costs I needed to be persuaded that the fault was present or developing 
at the point of sale. Unfortunately, I was not persuaded that this was the case.
I found the independent report more persuasive in its detail and gave two reasonable  
as to why the engine might have failed which were either the car being run at 
elevated temperatures with insufficient coolant in the system or being run with 
insufficient oil in the sump. It found no evidence of a fault that would have been 
present or developing at the point of sale which would have caused the engine to fail.
Finally, Miss L  managed to drive nearly 5000 miles before the engine failed which I 
doubted she would have been able to do had the fault been present or developing at 
the point of sale
Based on all the information available to me I couldnt  reasonably conclude there 
was a fault present or developing at the point of sale for which BMF was responsible. 
So, on that basis I couldnt  reasonably ask BMF to refund the cost of the repair or 
any other associated costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both BMF and Miss L have responded to my provisional decision.
BMF noted my provisional decision findings and had nothing further to add.
Miss L similarly acknowledged the provisional decision but confirmed she had no further 
evidence for me to consider.
Given Miss L hasnt made any comments on my findings for me to consider I have reviewed 
the information I have and the provisional decision I reached.
Having done so I am still of the view that the independent report states the engine issue 
wouldnt have been present or developing at the point of sale. And it gave two reasonable 
suggestions as to why the engine may have failed. As Miss L was unable to provide any 
independent evidence to contradict this I have no grounds to change my provisional decision 
which was that there was no evidence of a point-of-sale issue for which BMF was 
responsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman