DRN-2835261
The complaint
Mr F has complained about a mortgage he held with National Westminster Bank Plc. Hes 
said, in summary:
NatWest didnt check affordability in 2013 when he took out a new five-year fixed rate.
It didnt help him in 2016 when he was in financial difficulties and had to sell the 
property.
He was charged an early repayment charge (ERC) of over £4,000 when he repaid the 
mortgage.
What happened
In 2011 Mr F took out a two-year fixed rate with NatWest following advice given to him by an 
independent mortgage broker. Then in 2013 he opted to take a new five-year fixed rate on a 
non-advised basis.
Mr F was struggling to manage all his financial commitments in 2016 so he needed to sell 
the property. He said he contacted NatWest to ask for help, but none was forthcoming. The 
property then sold and the mortgage was redeemed, leading to him paying an ERC. He said 
he would have looked to port the mortgage to a smaller property if NatWest had given him 
some assistance at the time.
Mr F complained to NatWest in January 2021, and it didnt uphold his complaint. When Mr F 
brought his complaint to us NatWest didn't consent to us looking at all of it, saying the 
complaint about the 2013 rate change had been brought too late.
Our investigator agreed the 2013 rate change hadnt been complained about in time, and 
she didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in relation to the rest of the complaint. 
Mr F didnt agree with this so it was passed to me to decide.
Earlier this month I issued a decision explaining that we couldnt consider the first point 
(about whether the 2013 rate change was affordable) because Mr F hadnt complained 
about that within the time limits set out in our rules. I said we could consider the other two 
points and that Id issue a decision about those shortly. Im now issuing that decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr F wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
Financial difficulties
Mr F says he phoned NatWest a few times to discuss his options and was only offered the 
option of porting, whereas NatWest has said it cant trace those calls and its contact notes 
only show one call on 3 May 2016 which says Mr called, advised ERC of £4084.57 and 
process of porting a mortgage. Mr confirmed property is going up for sale, will call back later 
for redemption statement. 
It would be unusual that more than one call handler failed to put any note on Mr Fs 
mortgage account when he phoned to discuss his financial difficulties, and that another call 
handler that did put a note on (on 3 May) only mentioned the sale and porting and neglected 
to record a conversation about financial difficulties. Thats not to say I disbelieve Mr F, but 
equally Ive no reason to disbelieve NatWest and its call records.
There were no missed payments on the mortgage, or any other issues that could have 
flagged up to NatWest that Mr F may be struggling. NatWest can only offer assistance if it is 
aware of a problem, and even if it was aware of a problem that doesnt mean any of the 
things Mr F says would have helped would have been considered an appropriate thing to do. 
Mr F has said either a switch to interest-only or a payment holiday would have given him the 
breathing space to allow him time to find another property to move to so he could port his 
mortgage. But it isnt as simple as that. NatWest would have needed full income and 
expenditure information from Mr F to assess his affordability, and it would also have needed 
to see something to show Mr F could afford the higher payments once any temporary 
concession (such as a switch to interest-only or a payment holiday) ended as either way his 
future payments would have gone up. There would have been no guarantee any sale would 
go through in any concessionary period, so NatWest would have to carry out those checks. 
And as Mr F is saying that his existing payments were unaffordable, it is unlikely hed pass 
the checks for ensuring the future higher payments (to make up the missed / short 
payments) would be affordable.
As no formal request for either a payment holiday or a temporary move to interest-only was 
made we cant know whether those requests would have been granted. We also cant say 
whether that breathing space would have meant Mr F was able to port his mortgage thus not 
incurring the ERC. There are simply too many doubts and variables.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr F is the one bringing the complaint against 
NatWest, to uphold the complaint Mr Fs version needs to be more likely than NatWests 
version; not just as likely. Having considered what both sides have said I dont find Mr Fs 
version to be any more than just as likely. For that reason I cant uphold his complaint that 
he asked for support for financial difficulties and NatWest didnt help him, and that the help 
would have meant he would have been able to port his mortgage and therefore not incur the 
ERC.
The ERC
The ERC wasnt a penalty as that has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Mr Fs mortgage was repaid, there 
was no breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the mortgage to be 
repaid if Mr F paid an ERC.
Its not in dispute that the ERC was set out in the mortgage offer that Mr F accepted when he 
took out the mortgage product in 2013. For the avoidance of any doubt, Im satisfied that the 
ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. And the ERC was applied in 
line with the terms that Mr F agreed to. As the mortgage was repaid before 31 December 
2018, NatWest was entitled to apply an ERC.But I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial  
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB).
MCOB says that lenders can impose an ERC as long as it can be expressed as a cash value 
and is a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs as a result of the customer repaying the 
amount due under the regulated mortgage contract before the contract has terminated. It 
goes on to explain that lenders dont have to calculate the ERC for every mortgage 
individually. They can calculate the ERC across a range of mortgages of the same type. 
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. NatWest 
has provided evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of the mortgage being repaid 
early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in confidence if it is appropriate to do 
so. I am satisfied that the information NatWest has provided is commercially sensitive and I 
have good reason to accept that in confidence.
The information from NatWest shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. Having 
considered all that Im satisfied that it was a reasonable way for it to estimate what its costs 
might be if the mortgage was repaid early.
Mr F said I also question the level of the ERC and its fairness. I had been a Natwest 
mortgage customer since 2011, so the size of the fee seems disproportionate to the cost to 
the business.  But the length of time Mr F had been a customer of NatWest isnt relevant 
here  nor is the actual cost to NatWest of this individual mortgage being repaid. MCOB only 
requires NatWest to make a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the mortgage being 
repaid early across a range of similar mortgages. I consider that is what NatWest has done. 
And based on the information presented to me I consider it was reasonable for it to charge 
the ERC it did.
Overall, I consider it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to apply the ERC in line with the 
agreement that Mr F entered into.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman