DRN-4513878
The complaint
Mr Y complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds addition of a record to the 
Claims & Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database relating to an incident which did not result 
in a claim being made to them under Mr Ys car insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Up until June 2021, Mr Y had car insurance underwritten by Advantage. In March 2021, he 
contacted Advantage to tell them that someone had stolen the catalytic converter from his 
car.
Mr Y says he contacted Advantage with the intention of making a claim and asking 
Advantage to pay for the repairs to his car. However, when he found out the cost of the 
repairs, he effectively withdrew the claim and paid for the repairs himself.
Mr Y says that when he was later looking for car insurance he became aware that the price 
was being affected by a record of the March 2021 incident on the CUE database. Because 
he didnt make a claim, he believes its unfair that the record is on CUE and he wants 
Advantage to remove it.
Mr Y made a compliant to Advantage, but they didnt uphold it. They said the record was 
legitimately added to the CUE database and they werent intending to remove it. Mr Y wasnt 
happy with this and brought his complaint to us.
Whilst we were looking into it, Advantage told us theyd realised the record was in fact 
inaccurate. It suggested Mr Y had made a fault claim  which means in effect that 
Advantage had paid out but had been unable to recover their losses. Whereas in fact, they 
hadnt paid out because Mr Y withdrew the claim.
At this stage, Advantage offered to settle the complaint by amending the record to show that 
Mr Y had notified Advantage of the loss but had not made a claim. And they offered Mr Y 
£100 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Our investigator thought Advantages offer was fair. Mr Y disagreed and asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y thinks its unfair that theres a record of the March 2021 incident on CUE at all. He 
wants it removed because it appears to be having an impact on his car insurance premiums.
He says there ought to be no record because he didnt make a claim  and having made the 
decision to pay for the repairs himself, its unfair that his premiums are now higher than they 
otherwise would be.
Im afraid I dont agree with that. I can see why Mr Y believes the record should be removed, 
but I think hes falling into a common misconception about the way insurance works. 
What insurers try to do, when they offer policies to potential customers, is accurately assess 
the risk that they will have to settle a claim (or claims) under the policy. In broad terms, the 
greater the risk they calculate, the higher the premium.
Thats not unfair or unreasonable. In fact, its part of the fabric of the way insurance works. 
You can insure against most risks, but the higher the risk, the more you will have to pay to 
get that cover. Customers who present a smaller risk get cheaper insurance  and thats 
clearly to the advantage of those customers.
In calculating the risk attached to a policy, insurers will quite legitimately want to find out as 
much information as possible which is relevant to the calculation of that risk. Hence the 
questions were all asked when we by insurance  including questions about previous claims 
and/or  very often  any losses or damage which didnt lead to a claim.
Some  if not most - insurers will take the view that a previous loss, whether it resulted in a 
claim or not, indicates a higher risk of a future loss  which might lead to a claim. 
Thats why many insurers ask at the policy application stage whether youve suffered loss or 
damage (whether it led to a claim or not) and its why many policies require the customer to 
notify the insurer of any loss or damage even if they dont intend to make a claim.
In essence, insurance is not a game, where customers can choose tactically to protect 
against future premium increases by not declaring previous losses on the basis that they 
didnt make a claim.
To look at it a slightly different way, if Advantage place a record on CUE which says Mr Ys 
car suffered a loss due to a theft in March 2021, then that is an entirely accurate record. And 
it is information which  for the reasons Ive set out above  is quite legitimately relevant to 
future insurers decisions about whether to offer cover and, if so, at what price. 
Some insurers may decide that the non-claim incident in March 2021 doesnt add to the risk 
they take in providing cover. Others may think it does. But those are decisions insurers are 
entitled to make, in full knowledge of the facts.
So, theres nothing wrong in principle with Advantage adding a record to CUE relating to the 
March 2021 incident. 
What actually went wrong in this case is that Advantage put an inaccurate record on CUE, 
which indicated theyd paid out in relation to the March 2021 incident. 
Thats clearly a mistake on their part  which wasnt rectified until around September 2023, 
after we began our investigation into Mr Ys complaint. And for that reason, Im going to 
uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Putting things right
The CUE record was amended by Advantage in around September 2023. It now shows as a 
record of an incident that was notification only  which means anyone accessing that 
record will understand that Mr Y didnt in fact make a claim. So, thats been put right already  albeit after our investigation started  and theres nothing 
more for Advantage to do to put things right for Mr Y in that respect. For the reasons set out 
above, Im not going to require Advantage to do what Mr Y wants and remove the record 
entirely.
The inaccurate version of the record was on CUE between mid-2021 and around September 
2023. Some, if not most, insurers would increase their required premiums by more for a fault 
claim as opposed to a notification only incident. 
So, in theory, its possible that the inaccurate record would have caused Mr Ys premiums  
after leaving Advantage in June 2021, two or three months after the March 2021 incident  
to increase by more than they ought to have done.
Mr Y took out insurance with another insurer in June 2021 and stayed with them for two 
years. Its clear from evidence provided by Mr Y that the other insurer only became aware of 
the March 2021 incident in around August 2022 after hed renewed with them in June 2022. 
Mr Y hadnt declared the incident when he first bought the policy.
So, his first years premiums with the new insurer werent affected by the inaccurate CUE 
record. And Mr Y tells us that, after some discussion between the new insurer and himself, 
they agreed not to increase the premium for the second year after they discovered the CUE 
record in August 2022.
Mr Y next bought an annual policy in early December of this year. Hes provided evidence to 
suggest the premium went up after the latest insurer became aware of the March 2021 
incident via CUE. 
However, by that time Advantage had corrected the CUE record, so any increased 
premiums Mr Y agreed to pay are based on the now accurate and factual record on CUE, 
which Advantage were entitled to place there.
Mr Y says he bought daily insurance between June 2023 and December 2023. But hes not 
provided any evidence of how much he paid and when.
So, based on the evidence available to us  and what Mr Y himself tells us - I cant 
reasonably conclude that the inaccurate record placed on CUE by Advantage after the 
March 2021 incident has had any effect on the premiums paid by Mr Y at any point.
That being the case, I agree with our investigator that the £100 offered to Mr Y by Advantage 
in compensation for Mr Ys trouble and upset was fair and reasonable. 
Although the inaccurate record had no material effect on his premium payments, Mr Y was 
caused a degree of inconvenience in having to explain the situation to insurers and potential 
insurers. And he suffered a degree of worry and anxiety about the records existence and the 
effect it might have in future. 
I understand Advantage may have already paid the £100 compensation they offered Mr Y. If 
that is the case, for the sake of clarity, Im not suggesting they should pay a further £100 
now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:ensure the CUE record about the incident reported by Mr Y in March 2021 is and 
remains accurate; and
pay Mr Y £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman