DRN-3676341
The complaint
Mr O complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) have refused 
to honour a claim hes made for a refund in connection with a reservation at an inn.
What happened
Ill cover the background to this complaint only briefly as it is well known by now to all parties 
involved. 
Mr and Mrs O planned to get married in July 2020. In January 2020 they booked out a 
number of rooms at a local inn for the use of some of their guests, paying a total of £3,260 
on a credit card connected to Mr Os Amex account. Mrs O says she made the booking over 
the phone and that she was not told of any terms and conditions which applied to the 
booking.
Not long after, the coronavirus pandemic arrived in the UK and this led to Mr and Mrs O 
needing to make changes to their wedding plans. They initially asked late in March 2020 to 
amend their dates to September 2020, which the inn agreed to, and then to cancel the 
booking entirely late in April 2020. The owners of the inn replied to say that they could not 
offer a cash refund, but suggested either a credit to be used against a later set of dates, or 
re-letting the rooms and passing on the revenue to Mr and Mrs O.
Mrs O emailed the inn again in July 2020 to reiterate the request for a refund, noting that she 
and Mr O were now having to hold their wedding in another part of the country. The inn 
owners again said they would not provide a refund, stating that all its rates were non-
refundable. They said that if they refunded reservations the inn would go out of business. 
The owners again suggested re-letting the rooms. Mrs O responded, very disappointed by 
the owners stance, and quoted guidance from the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
which she said indicated the inn should provide a refund. 
The last email I have seen from the inn was dated 24 August 2020 and stated that it believed 
it had met its legal obligations. It said it had cancelled the booking and would pass on any 
revenue received from re-bookings to Mrs O, if she were to provide her bank details. I 
understand Mrs O didnt provide her bank details as she was sure she and Mr O were 
entitled to a full refund. In any event, Mr and Mrs O believe the inn deliberately refused to 
take bookings over the relevant period to avoid having to pay them any refund, citing an 
exchange of text messages with a friend who had been unable to book.
It appears Amex became involved with the dispute originally around May 2020 but nothing 
was taken forward at that point. In July 2020 Amex opened a case on their system, finally 
declining Mr Os claim for a refund in May 2021. It stated that the booking had been non-
refundable and that Mr and Mrs O had been aware of this at the time of booking. Mr O 
disagreed, explaining why over the phone and by email. Amex would not change its 
decision. Mr O then made a complaint which resulted in Amex paying him £100 for providing 
poor service, but the company insisted that it had not been wrong to turn down his claim.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr O referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators considered the evidence. She concluded:
The reservation had been non-refundable and Mr or Mrs O had probably been aware 
of this at the time of booking, either because theyd have been advised over the 
phone or read it on the inns website.
If the inn had made it difficult for other guests to rebook the rooms, then this was a 
service issue rather than a contractual one.
Mr and Mrs O were therefore not entitled to a refund if they cancelled their 
reservation, meaning they didnt have a valid claim via the chargeback process or 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Amex had therefore not 
treated Mr O unfairly by not honouring his claim.
Mr O didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He 
maintained that he and Mrs O, that they had never received terms and conditions and they 
had ultimately paid £3,260 and received nothing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two avenues via which Amex could have provided reimbursement to Mr O in 
connection with his payment to the inn: the process known as chargeback, and a claim 
under section 75 of the CCA.
A chargeback is a means of claiming back from the recipient, a payment made on a debit or 
credit card. Chargebacks can only be made for reasons which are specified in the rules of 
the card scheme which governs the type of card used to make the payment, and whose 
branding can be found on the card. In this case, the card scheme is run by another company 
in the Amex group. Although chargebacks are not a guaranteed way of obtaining a refund 
(as they can be subject to challenge by the recipient), I would generally expect a credit card 
provider to attempt a chargeback where there was a reasonable prospect of it succeeding.
Section 75 of the CCA gives consumers a right to claim against their credit card provider if 
they have paid a supplier of goods or services using their card, so long as certain conditions 
are met, and the supplier has either breached its contract with them or misrepresented 
something to them.
Unfortunately, like our investigator I dont think Amexs decision not to provide a refund via 
either of these avenues was unreasonable, for reasons Ill go on to explain.
The section 75 claim
Its not been disputed that the technical conditions for Mr O to make a section 75 claim are in 
place, so I will say only in this case that it appears to me that the technical conditions are 
indeed present. Central to the dispute has been whether the inn breached its contract with 
Mr and Mrs O, or misrepresented something to them, so that is what I have focused on. A 
breach of contract occurs when one party to an agreement breaks either its explicitly agreed 
terms, or terms which are treated as included (for example because the law says they must 
be). A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which a person relies on when making a 
decision to, for example, enter a contract.
Mrs O says she made the booking over the phone early in January 2020 and that cancellation terms were not discussed. The inn says that Mrs O was informed twice of the 
cancellation terms which applied to the booking. In an email to Amex, a representative of the 
inn said that originally it had given Mrs O a code to get a discount when booking online, as 
she was a former employee. The representative said Mrs O would have seen that the rooms 
were non-refundable when she tried to book online, but in the end the code did not work and 
so instead the booking was completed over the phone. The representative said the non-
refundable nature of the booking was made clear at this point as well, and that this was why 
full payment was being requested up front.
Having considered the evidence carefully, and in particular the correspondence between 
Mrs O and the inn, I think its likely Mrs O was aware she had made a booking which was 
non-refundable in the event she needed to cancel. I say this because if had she believed she 
had a right to a refund under the terms of the booking, I would have expected this to be 
reflected in her communications with the inn. But it was not.
Most critical here is Mrs Os response to the inns July 2020 email in which it referred to the 
non-refundable nature of the booking when explaining why it would not provide a refund. 
Mrs O did not challenge this in her reply. I would describe her response to the inn as 
focusing on two other reasons why she and Mr O should receive a refund:
Her previous relationship with the inns owners  in light of which the refusal to 
provide a refund appeared very unfair to her. In her words, she was not just any 
random customer.
Guidance from the CMA which said businesses should provide a refund even for 
non-refundable bookings, if the consumer cancels or cannot receive the services 
because of Covid-19.
Mrs O did not dispute, however, the inns statement that it had been a non-refundable 
booking.
Overall, I find that the booking made with the inn was a non-refundable one in the event Mr 
and Mrs O had to cancel, and that Mr and Mrs O were aware of this. This means I dont think 
the booking terms were misrepresented. It also means that in refusing to provide a refund to 
Mr and Mrs O when they asked to cancel, the inn did not break its contract with them.
Ive considered the CMA guidance Mrs O mentioned. Having looked at the context in which 
the guidance originally appeared, I think it was intended to cover scenarios where the CMA 
would have considered the contract to have been frustrated. Frustration is not the same as 
breach of contract  it is a different legal doctrine  and is not one of the types of claim which 
is covered by section 75 of the CCA. So unfortunately, I dont find that this helps Mr O in his 
complaint against Amex.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Os assertion that the inn prevented people from booking 
the rooms in question over the wedding weekend, to avoid giving any refund. The only 
evidence Ive seen of this is a text message in which a contact of Mr and Mrs O says they 
couldnt make a one-night booking. I dont think there is much I can usefully draw from this 
evidence  I dont think it proves the inns offer to pass on revenue was not genuine.
Chargeback
As I mentioned earlier, chargebacks are not a guaranteed way of claiming a refund of money 
paid using a card. Where a service, such as a hotel booking, has been cancelled by a 
consumer, typically for a chargeback to be successful it would need to be shown that the 
consumer was entitled to a refund under the terms which applied to the purchase. Amex did attempt a chargeback in this case and it was challenged by the inn, which gave 
the account of events I outlined above. It was able to provide evidence that on its website 
room bookings were described as being non-refundable, and claimed it had also explained 
this over the phone to Mrs O. I dont think it was wrong of Amex to have accepted this 
explanation, for the same reasons Ive already given in respect of the section 75 claim.
Overall conclusions
While I can quite understand why Mr and Mrs O feel very let down by the inn given Mrs Os 
previous relationship with the owners and their family, I am restricted to considering whether 
Amex has dealt with the dispute fairly and reasonably. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
think Amex took the chargeback process as far as it reasonably should, and it was not liable 
to refund Mr O under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So my view is that Amex 
did not treat Mr O unfairly by declining to honour his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman