DRN-3937144
The complaint
Mr C complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided him with a loan he couldnt afford to repay because he had other
loans outstanding at the time.
What happened
Mr C was advanced one loan, a summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateinstalments instalment 
amount
1 £340.00 13/08/2019 outstanding 6 £104.37
Following Mr Cs complaint, MoneyBoat wrote to him to explain it had carried out
affordability checks which showed Mr C could afford the repayments he was committed
to making. Unhappy, with this outcome, Mr C then referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and she thought MoneyBoat had carried out a
proportionate check before granting the loan and these checks showed it that Mr C
could afford the payments. She also didnt think it had yet reached the point were
MoneyBoat needed to verify the information Mr C had provided or it had reached the point
where the loan was unsustainable for him. Overall, she didnt uphold the complaint.
MoneyBoat didnt acknowledge or provide any further comments.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, because he said weve concluded that
we are happy for MoneyBoat to lend money to him even though he was already finding it
difficult to repay other loans.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me, and I issued a provisional 
decision explaining why I was intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I gave both parties until 
31 January 2023 to provide anything further for consideration. 
In this case, despite being chased for a response neither party has provided anything further 
for consideration. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Cs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loan 
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was
able to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
MoneyBoat has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr C for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Cs income has been recorded as being £1,200 per
month. Mr C also declared his monthly outgoings were £795  which covered costs such as
rent, food, credit commitments, transport and other. However, following further checks
(including a credit search which I comment on below) MoneyBoat increased his living
costs by a further £5. Bring these costs to £800 per month.
This left Mr C with disposable monthly income of £400. This was more than sufficient for
MoneyBoat to believe Mr C could afford the largest repayment of around £104.37. The loan
therefore, looked affordable.
Mr C says these figures arent correct. But I have no evidence from Mr C to support this was
the case. Indeed, the format that the information has been provided in by MoneyBoat is what
is normally provided to show information that was gathered at the time of the loan
application. I therefore, have to accept, in both good faith and because there is an absence
of anything else to show these figures werent the ones provide by Mr C at the time of the
application.
Before this loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received. I want to
add that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement
to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.Therefore, its possible that the information MoneyBoat received may not entirely reflect the
information Mr C maybe able to see in his own credit report. There could be for a number of
reasons for this, such as MoneyBoat only asking for certain pieces of information or other
credit providers hadnt yet updated the credit file to show recent debts. But what
MoneyBoat couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
MoneyBoat was also entitled to rely on the information it was given. So, Ive taken a look at
the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either
prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Cs
application.
Having reviewed these results, I can see what superficially looks like a warning sign that
Mr C may have been reliant on using high-cost credit. I say this because, while he had
12 active credit accounts when he applied for this loan, MoneyBoat knew he had opened
11 new credit facilities within the previous six months. Which translates into around 2 new
facilities per month. This ought to have led MoneyBoat to at least question why Mr C was
apparently in constant need of new credit facilities and what type of companies provide such credit. 
This is further supported by the fact that MoneyBoat knew in the last 3 months there had been 14 
credit searches on his credit file.
However, the credit search provided by MoneyBoat do suggest that Mr C was having
difficulties, and the figure he gave them for credit commitments  as part of his application of
£255 per month was clearly inaccurate.
Of the 12 active accounts, the majority were either Advance Against Income or home credit
loans. Looking at the monthly repayments as set out in the credit check, Mr C was already
committed to paying at least £948 each month towards these commitments. In addition,
there was a mobile phone contract and a recently opened Finance House agreement that
doesnt have a monthly figure  so it is entirely possible that Mr Cs credit commitments were
greater still.
So already, MoneyBoat was on notice that potentially £948 was being used up out of his
income (£1,200) and was going towards credit commitments before any other living costs
were factored in. Costs that Mr C had already declared to MoneyBoat were around £540 per
month.
On top of this, I can see at least 18 accounts had been settled since January 2019, that were
classified as Advance Against Income  so again, likely to be payday loans. This reinforces
the view that Mr C was not only not in a position to afford the loan repayments but also, had
been a regular user of a number of high-cost credit accounts for the previous eight months.
Now, given the living costs Mr C declared and what MoneyBoat knew his credit
commitments likely were from the credit report, this loan shouldnt have been provided
because it was clearly unaffordable for him and he was already overextended on other
accounts. I am therefore planning to uphold Mr Cs complaint about the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and MoneyBoat have been contacted after the provisional decision to see 
whether to was received and whether anything further would be sent to us. Unfortunately, 
weve not heard back from either party.  Therefore, in order to bring this complaint to a close, 
and to provide Mr C with an answer to his complaint, I have proceeded to issue the final 
decision. As neither party has provided anything further, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
that I reached in the provisional decision. I still dont think MoneyBoat ought to have granted 
this loan because the credit check results showed it that Mr C was already overindebted with 
other creditors when the loan was approved. And so, this loan wasnt affordable for him. 
Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for Mr C. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr C, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr C the loan.
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if is able to do so and then
take the following steps. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of the 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then MoneyBoat 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr C. Id remind it of its obligation to treat Mr C 
fairly and with forbearance.
C. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in 
relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it deducted, if he asks for one.
Mr C has told both us and MoneyBoat about his health problems and I do hope things are 
better for him now. But he may wish to provide any documentation MoneyBoat may ask for 
to help it understand what help and support to provide him moving forward. MoneyBoat needs to take his health into account because Mr C is still likely to owe it some money but 
MoneyBoat must treat him fairly and with forbearance and keep all available options open to 
it when deciding what the fairest way forward is.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Cs 
complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr C as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman