DRN-3640979
The complaint
Ms A says HSBC UK Bank Plc has been unable to resolve the technical issues she 
experienced when she tried to make payments online.
What happened
Ms A complained to HSBC after she was unable to set up a payee online. It explained its 
system showed that it was a code entry error, meaning she was inputting the code her 
security device generated incorrectly. She says this is not the case  she visited a branch 
where the same problem occurred, but the manager was able to resolve the issue by 
deleting the payee details and recreating them. 
She says it is very difficult to use HSBCs Customer Services; its security questions are 
impossible to answer when you cant access your account; and you need at least a spare 
hour to call. She says her issues have still not been properly resolved, and the £150 
compensation the bank paid for not responding faster when she faced these issues is not 
sufficient given the disruption caused. She asks for £1,000.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms As complaint. She said HSBCs position that its security 
questions were appropriate, and there to protect account holders, was reasonable. And she 
said HSBCs evidence showed Ms A incorrectly entered codes on 20 February 2022 and 24 
March 2022 as the message unsuccessful transaction signing was generated. She felt the 
bank hadnt been able to better assist as Ms A didnt co-operate when she called in and the 
conversations became difficult. She understood why Ms A was frustrated, but felt this 
prevented the bank from helping her more effectively. She found £150 was fair to recognise 
HSBCs role in the inconvenience Ms A experienced.
Unhappy with this assessment Ms A asked for an ombudsmans review.  She asked if we 
had the full information from the branch where the problem was resolved, it was then she 
managed to make a test payment of £1 too. But HSBC then decided the issue was resolved. 
She added that she still cannot use her account online and is waiting for the bank to contact 
her.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
The bank has submitted a report that shows the attempt Ms A made on 20 February 2022 
and the three attempts she made on 24 March 2022 to generate and input authentication 
codes were unsuccessful returning the error message unsuccessful transaction signing. 
This same thing happened on 20 April 2022, which I assume was in the branch as Ms A has 
described. However I cant fairly conclude anything other than the codes she used were not 
valid, I have no evidence to support her claim that this was not the reason, or to doubt 
HSBCs reporting that it was. 
I accept the branch was able to process a test transaction after intervention from the 
manager, but the report does not capture enough detail to explain how this was done (it 
reads successful transaction signing). And I dont see that further investigation into this 
transaction would impact the outcome here, as it does not take away from the fact that 
HSBC has given Ms A its accurate understanding of why the previous attempts failed based 
on the reporting it has in place. I think this is a fair response to this aspect of her complaint.
I have listened to the calls between Ms A and HSBC and can see they were not highly 
productive. But I dont find HSBC was at fault, so I am not instructing it to take any corrective 
action. I have also read the transcripts of the live chats between the parties. I understand 
why Ms A was frustrated as she was in the end told to call in, but there was no error made 
by the bank. That is the process it has in place for such situations. 
In the round I find HSBCs payment of £150 to be fair to recognise that it caused Ms A some 
inconvenience by not explaining sooner why her payments were failing. And I anticipate she 
will still feel the route cause has not been discovered. But HSBC has provided the reports 
we would expect to see in cases like this, and explained what the relevant error messages 
mean, so I am not asking it to do more.
Ms A also told us more recently she still cannot use her account online, but she also said on 
her call with us that this is a different problem and error message. So I cant comment further 
on this here, only to say if she remains unhappy after the bank has investigated this (if she 
makes a complaint) she can of course bring a new complaint to this service.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman