DRN-4511514
The complaint
Mr K complains China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) has treated him unfairly by 
declining to carry out further repairs following a previous claim for subsidence on his 
property insurance policy.  
Any reference to CTI includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr K took out a property insurance policy in June 2018 covering his buildings and contents. 
Later that year, he submitted a claim for subsidence as he noticed cracks had appeared in 
his walls. CTI accepted the claim and said the movement was caused by vegetation to the 
side of the property which had led to shrinkage of the clay ground. It removed the vegetation 
and arranged for the property to be monitored for around a year, after which point, it was 
satisfied there was no further significant movement. So it authorised for repairs to take place. 
By the time the repair work started, the term of Mr Ks policy ended and he took out a new 
policy with a different insurer.
Although CTI sourced a contractor to quote for and carry out the repairs, the works didnt go 
ahead due to the Coronavirus pandemic. And once it was safe to proceed, the contractor 
was no longer willing to carry out the work. Mr K says CTI asked him to find another 
contractor in order to speed things up as it didnt have a preferred contractor. 
Mr K found a contractor who Ill call DM and CTI accepted their quote for the repairs. CTI 
paid DM the repair costs directly but around 7 December 2020, it asked Mr K to sign a form 
confirming he accepted around £31,000  which was the cost of the repairs  in full and final 
settlement of his claim. CTIs given us internal emails and correspondence with Mr K where 
it gave some instructions on how the contractor should carry out the repairs. 
The repairs were finished around December 2020. But in March 2021, Mr K says he 
discovered further cracks in his walls. After investigation and monitoring, CTI said these 
cracks were a result of poor workmanship by DM and not further subsidence. It suggested 
Mr K either pursue DM to fix the problems or make a claim on his policy with his new insurer. 
DM refused to carry out any further work as they said they did the repairs in line with the 
scope they were given by CTI. Around July 2022, CTI told Mr K it would cover replastering, 
associated redecoration and some render repair outside the property. But, following some 
discussion between the parties about what rendering was previously repaired, its unclear 
whether this offer remained open. As Mr K thought CTI should cover all of the repairs, he 
made a complaint to our service.
Two Investigators looked into this complaint. They both thought the case should be upheld 
and CTI should repair Mr Ks property. They said they were satisfied the damage was 
connected to the previous claim which showed the original repairs werent effective and 
lasting. And they thought there was enough evidence to suggest DM had carried out the 
work as CTIs agent. CTI didnt accept what our Investigators said. It said it cash settled the 
claim and therefore it had no more responsibility or involvement. As the complaint wasnt 
resolved, it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen, I am upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
When an insurer settles a claim by repair, I would usually expect to see its carried out an 
effective and lasting repair. Both parties in this case accept there is further damage to Mr Ks 
property which has been caused as a result of poor workmanship. So the original 
subsidence repairs couldnt have been effective and lasting. But the matter in dispute here is 
whether CTI is responsible for the repairs that took place. 
CTI doesnt think its responsible for the repairer or the repairs because it says it cash settled 
the claim. Insurers can generally decide how to settle a claim. But this is a subsidence claim 
which included a fair amount of work. Mr K seems to have had no prior relationship with DM 
and only suggested them as they were local, available and CTI didnt have a preferred 
contractor to instruct. So I dont think a cash settlement was a fair choice for CTI to make in 
this case. 
Whilst I accept Mr K found DM, it seems he did so at CTIs request because it was struggling 
to find a local contractor who could do the work  and not because he wanted to choose or 
control the contractor himself. And, I dont think CTIs only involvement was to pay DMs bill 
as I can see from its email to Mr K around 20 October 2020, it gave instructions on how it 
should carry out the repair. I can also see CTI paid DM directly rather than paying Mr K the 
funds for him to pay the contractor. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr K signed a form of acceptance confirming he had received funds in 
full and final settlement of the claim, I havent seen anything suggesting CTI made it clear to 
him what this meant  that it wouldnt be liable for the repairs and wouldnt have any further 
involvement if there were problems. So Im not satisfied Mr K wouldve understood that was 
what he was agreeing to. And I think thats evidenced by his expectation that CTI would put 
things right or pursue DM when he noticed further cracks the following year.
I appreciate CTI has highlighted that Mr Ks policy is a perils policy rather than an all risks 
policy. But I dont think that makes a difference in this case as any repairs carried out should 
still be effective and lasting.  
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, I think CTI should arrange an effective and lasting repair of 
all of the outstanding damage caused by the poor workmanship carried out during the 
subsidence claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct China Taiping Insurance 
(UK) Co Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman