DRN-2018794
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard closed his account 
without reason or warning. 
What happened
Mr J opened a Barclaycard credit card in 2010, providing a UK address. Mr J updated his 
address with Barclaycard to one overseas. Mr J explains that he and his wife are currently 
abroad while she receives medical treatment. 
Mr J rarely used his credit card, but regularly made payments on time and didnt exceed the 
limit. He explains that the card was kept for reasons of possible emergency, such as needing 
to book a flight back to the UK. 
Barclaycard closed Mr Js credit card in July 2018. They say this was because he was 
unable to provide proof of residency for a UK address, and he lived in a country which they 
were unable to service. 
Mr J complains that he didnt receive communication from Barclaycard that they were closing 
his account, they continued to send him statements in the post and so they knew his 
address. The closure of the account has caused him and his wife financial difficulty. Mr J 
says when he called Barclaycard, they told him the account had been closed by him. This 
caused Mr J distress as he thought there may have been fraudulent activity on his card. 
Barclaycard later corrected their mistake and confirmed that they had closed the card. They 
paid Mr J £25 compensation to reflect the distress caused. They didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong in closing the account. 
Mr J was unhappy with the response from Barclaycard and bought his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator felt that Barclaycard had followed their procedures, that the terms 
allowed them to close the account, and that it was more likely than not that the 
communication about account closure had been sent. She felt the £25 paid was appropriate 
for the mistake in telling Mr J who closed the account, so she didnt think Barclaycard 
needed to do anything more. Mr J has asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr Js wife is unwell, and I wish her the best for her treatment. 
Account Closure
Barclaycard have confirmed that Mr Js account was closed because its being operated 
from overseas. 
Under section 15 - Getting in touch, the terms and conditions of the account read, If you 
(or any additional cardholders) are living overseas, please let us know so that we can 
contact you. We may close your account if you are living overseas but will give you notice in 
line with these terms and conditions if we do this.
At section 14 - Closing your account, the terms go on to say, Unless we need to close 
your account immediately, well give you at least two months written notice.
Barclaycard have provided evidence that they issued a letter to Mr J at his overseas address 
on 20 April 2018. This advised that his account would be closed on 24 July 2018 if the 
information requested to evidence a UK residential address was not provided before then. 
The account was then closed on 24 July 2018 when no evidence was received. 
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mr Js account allowed Barclaycard to close it, 
and that they followed the correct procedure for doing so, giving Mr J the required notice. 
I know Mr J has commented that his account was in good standing. I can see this didnt 
factor into Barclaycards decision to close his account. This was done based on the account 
being operated from overseas only. 
Communication of account closure
Ive seen evidence from Barclaycards systems that they sent several communications to Mr 
J about his account closure. These were: 
A letter issued to his overseas address on 20 April 2018, informing him that the 
account would be closed unless proof of residency for an address in a listed country 
was provided. 
Emails sent to Mr Js recorded email address on 21 and 29 May and 4 June 2018 
reminding him of the account closure date. 
A letter sent to Mr Js overseas address on 24 July 2018 confirming that the account 
had been closed, because the address was in a country which they could not service. 
Mr J says he received no communication from Barclaycard at all. Barclaycard has shown it 
issued the letters to the same address as it used for account statements and other 
correspondence, which Mr J has received. The email address is different from the one now 
being used by Mr J. However, Mr J has provided this service with an email that Barclaycard 
recently sent to this old address, so Im satisfied that he still has access to it. 
I dont dispute that Mr J didnt receive the communication from Barclaycard. But I am 
satisfied that it was sent to the postal and email addresses that they held on file, and that 
these were correct. Therefore, I dont think they are responsible for Mr J not having received 
them. Incorrect information
Mr J called Barclaycard in October 2019 and this was when he learned of the account 
closure. He was told during the call that the account was closed by him. This caused Mr J 
some distress and left him wondering if his account had been hacked. Barclaycard later 
corrected this mistake and paid Mr J £25 in compensation. 
Barclaycard has accepted it gave Mr J incorrect information, and I can see how this gave 
him some cause for concern. In my view, the £25 Barclaycard paid Mr J is fair compensation 
for this. 
Financial difficulties
Mr J has explained that the closure of the account has left him and his wife in financial 
difficulty. I understand Mr Js reasons for wishing to retain the credit facility previously 
granted to him. However, I dont think that Mr J was relying on it at the time of closure, as it 
hadnt been used for around five years. I dont think that Barclaycard were obliged to 
continue to offer that facility for any future need that Mr J might have, and the terms and 
conditions allow them to close it. 
In conclusion, I think Barclaycard were entitled under the terms and conditions of Mr Js 
account to close it with notice. I find that notice was given, and Barclaycard did all they could 
to ensure that it was sent to the addresses that they held on file. I cant say why it wasnt 
received by Mr J, but I dont think that Barclaycard did anything wrong in this respect. 
Further, I think that Barclaycard has paid Mr J suitable compensation for the mistake that it 
did make.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclaycards existing payment of 
£25 to Mr J is a fair way to resolve the complaint and I dont require it to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman