DRN-3477272
The complaint
Mr W complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly recorded 
adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W had two credit card accounts with Tesco Bank. To maintain the accounts, he needed 
to make at least minimum payments by certain dates each month. Missed payments would 
be reflected on his credit file. 
In 2020 Mr Ws income was impacted by the pandemic. Tesco Bank agreed to Covid-related 
payment deferrals for March to August 2020. This meant Mr W didnt need to make any 
payments towards the accounts and his credit file wouldnt be adversely impacted. I find 
Tesco Bank acted fairly as Mr W asked for support and he got it. Tesco Bank did apply 
interest during this period, but it could do so under the relevant rules. 
Mr W made some payments following the end of the payment deferrals, but by late 2020 he 
needed further support. Tesco Bank went on to give Mr W nine months where no interest 
was charged to either account (saving him about £100 a month), and he could pay just £20 a 
month to each account (significantly less than the contractual payments). I find Tesco Bank 
treated Mr W fairly as again, he asked for support, and he got it. 
Mr W is concerned with adverse information recorded on his credit file during the nine-month 
period. Tesco Bank has shown it recorded that Mr W was in arrears and in an arrangement 
during the nine-month period. Mr W may find that unfair, but its an accurate reflection of the 
way the account was managed. Mr W had already received the maximum number of 
Covid-related payment deferral months. The alternative to what Tesco Bank did, therefore, 
would have been for it to consider Mr W in default and close the accounts, which given 
Mr Ws concern about his credit file Im satisfied he wouldnt have wanted. It follows Im not 
going to require Tesco Bank to change what it recorded. 
At the end of the nine-month period Tesco Bank issued default notices. I dont find this 
unreasonable given Mr W hadnt made contractual payments sustainably for over a year. To 
satisfy the default notices Mr W needed to bring the accounts back on track by paying off the 
accumulated arrears. I dont find this unreasonable in light of the arrears being built up 
where no interest was being charged, meaning they were made up solely of the difference 
between a monthly expectation of 1% of the balance net of Mr Ws £20 monthly payments.
Mr W satisfied the default notices. The accounts therefore didnt close, and no defaults were 
recorded on Mr Ws credit file. Tesco Bank, however, due to an administrative error, still sent 
Mr W termination letters. When Mr W made Tesco Bank aware of this it recognised its error, 
apologised and paid Mr W £75 compensation. The investigator didnt think £75 was quite 
enough given the upset, anger, confusion and frustration Mr W says the letters caused him. 
She recommended Tesco Bank increase its offer to £125. I agree £125 compensation more 
fairly reflects the impact Tesco Banks error had on Mr W.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to 
pay Mr W £125 compensation, in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman