DRN-2033283
The complaint
Mr K says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, didnt amend his 
credit file correctly. This led to him being unable to get further credit and may have affected 
his ability to secure employment. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma provided to Mr K in August 2017. Mr K 
borrowed £950 and he was due to make 13 monthly repayments of £149. Mr K was unable 
to make these repayments and the account fell into arrears relatively quickly.
Mr K arranged to repay a reduced amount of £30 a month to Satsuma. I can see that he was 
able to do this most months, but at times in 2018 and early 2019 he was unable to pay this in 
full and he repaid a lower amount. 
Satsuma has looked at Mr Ks complaint. It has upheld it in part on the basis that it didnt 
always correctly indicate to the credit reference agencies that he had entered into an 
arrangement to pay a reduced amount. 
Satsuma corrected this as part of the complaint and has reduced the outstanding balance by 
£50 as compensation. Mr K didnt accept this. He thought the compensation for the trouble 
and upset that Satsumas errors had caused him should be much higher. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint Ive explained why below.
Mr K has explained that he repaid a large amount of debt in 2019. He says he started to 
apply for credit again after this but he was refused. And he also applied for employment but 
this wasnt successful either. He says that when his credit file was rectified he was able to 
obtain further credit and his job searches were more successful. So he thinks Satsumas 
error was the reason why he couldnt obtain lending or secure the employment he was 
applying for. 
Satsuma has a responsibility to report to a credit reference agency accurate details about a 
loan amount, some of the terms of the loan and how the loan has been repaid. For the most 
part Satsuma has done this. The details on the credit report Ive seen do show the amounts 
borrowed and repaid. And it does show that Mr K was unable to make the payments as 
originally agreed. 
Satsuma has said that, at times, it didnt inform the credit reference agency that Mr K had 
entered into an arrangement to pay. Its not in dispute that Satsuma made this error but its 
not clear if this would have materially affected Mr K. This is because, even if the 
arrangement to repay information was correct, his credit report would still show significant 
arrears on the original loan. And it would also show that Mr K was unable to fully make the 
arrangement to pay repayments at times. 
And Ive no way of reasonably saying that any errors or omissions by Satsuma influenced 
either the other lenders or his prospective employers decisions. It could be that the 
information about the actual loan repayments, or some other factors entirely, were the 
reasons why he couldnt obtain credit or secure other employment.
So, whilst Satsuma didnt always report Mr Ks credit problems correctly, I think the steps it 
took to resolve this were reasonable and it doesnt have to take any further action.  And so 
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman