DRN-2794421
The complaint
Mr S complains of poor customer service from Bank of Scotland plc.
What happened
Mr S received a phone call from a member of staff in a Bank of Scotland branch. When Mr S 
asked for the member of staffs name, she identified herself as S. When Mr S asked for her 
surname the phone call was ended.
Mr S complained of the poor customer service to Bank of Scotland. They upheld Mr Ss 
complaint and offered him £50 compensation. Bank of Scotland said that Mr S had not 
spoken to S and the woman he spoke with had a different name. Bank of Scotland said 
they had no recording of the outbound call, but they had no reason to doubt Mr Ss 
explanation. They said for future reference if there were any doubts of the callers identity, he 
could either call back on the telephone number on his bank card or visit his local branch.
Mr S did not accept the compensation offered and brought his complaint to our service. Mr S 
told our investigator that Bank of Scotland had not given him a reason why the call handler 
gave him a false name. He said that he had recorded the call and when he informed Bank of 
Scotland of this they chastised him about this. 
Our investigator felt that the compensation offered from Bank of Scotland was fair. She said 
that she had clearly heard the branch staff identify herself as S when Mr S played the call 
for her. Our investigator said it wasnt clear why the member of staff would give a false 
name. She said that despite this, she felt that Bank of Scotland addressed the shortfall in the 
customer service Mr S received.
Mr S requested an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that the Bank of Scotland 
staff originally implied he misheard the call handlers name, he believed that the call had 
been recorded by Bank of Scotland when they said it wasnt and they had tried to make an 
issue out of him recording the call they made to him instead of apologising. He said it was 
only after management had considered that he had a recording that they offered him £50 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to both Bank of Scotland and this service and Ive 
considered and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as 
a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
All parties have accepted Mr Ss version of events on the phone call. I say this as the final 
response letter from Bank of Scotland states that they have no reason to doubt your 
explanation and apologise for the misunderstanding. So although Mr S has said that the 
branch staff have implied that he misheard the caller identify herself as S, Bank of Scotland 
as an organisation have accepted Mr Ss explanation here.
I know its important to Mr S to find out why the caller identified herself by a false name. Ive 
asked Bank of Scotland if the person who rang Mr S has any recollection of the phone call. 
Bank of Scotland confirmed that the person who rang Mr S isnt currently at work. I know this 
will be incredibly frustrating for Mr S not being able to find out why this happened but only 
the call handler would be able to explain what happened here.
Next, Ive considered what Mr S has said about the recording of the phone call. Mr S 
strongly believes that the outbound call to him was recorded. But Im not persuaded that it 
was. I say this as the call was made from the branch and not a call centre. Bank of Scotland 
have confirmed that outbound calls from their branches are not recorded. So as Ive seen no 
evidence to prove that this call was recorded, Ive no reason to doubt what Bank of Scotland 
have said here.
Ive considered the overall customer service that Mr S has had from when he received the 
call from Bank of Scotland. He says he was accused of mishearing the name the staff 
member used and was told off for recording the call with them. I am persuaded that the level 
of service Mr S received did fall short of expectations. 
So, what I would expect to happen here is for Bank of Scotland to apologise for this and 
recognise the impact the poor customer service would have on Mr S. Im satisfied that 
theyve done that here. I say that as they have apologised to Mr S and their final response 
letter shows that they are not disputing his version of events. And theyve offered 
compensation of £50 to Mr S which Im persuaded is fair given the circumstances - as this is 
broadly in line with what I would have awarded him for the customer service he received if 
Bank of Scotland had not upheld his complaint. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr S £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman