DRN-4199230
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined to renew her motor 
insurance policy. Mrs H is represented in this matter by Mr H, a named driver on her policy.
 
What happened
Mrs Hs policy came up for renewal and Mr H called Advantages agent to discuss the 
premium. He updated details about their cover and provided their driving licence details. 
Advantage then declined to offer them cover. Mr H thought they were being discriminated 
against.
Our Investigator initially didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She saw 
from Advantages records that it already held Mrs H and Mr Hs licence details. So she didnt 
think Advantage had declined to renew their policy because of this. But she saw that details 
about the car and the voluntary excess had changed and this led to the renewal being 
declined. She thought Advantage was entitled to decide which vehicles it was willing to 
cover. So she didnt think it had done anything wrong in this. 
Mrs H replied that their cars fuel type hadnt changed in the past three years, and they 
hadnt reduced their voluntary excess. Advantage further reviewed the case and said that 
the decline was due to a system error. It offered to pay Mrs H £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this had caused. But Mr H thought Advantage should reimburse the cost of 
their renewal elsewhere. He said theyd spent eight months trying to get an answer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs H and Mr H have had a frustrating experience with Advantage. They have 
been provided with different explanations and have been caused trouble and upset in getting 
an answer from Advantage: 
They were told first they weren't allowed to know why their renewal was declined, but 
that Advantage was acting within its rights to decline it.
Then they were told it was down to the information they updated, which was the licence 
details, but then Advantage said it wasn't this. 
Then Advantage provided us with the details that were updated, which showed a 
difference in the fuel type of the car, and removal of the voluntary excess. 
But then Advantage said the renewal was declined not because of this but due to a 
system error. 
Mr H thought they had been discriminated against because of information they had provided 
to Advantage. But I havent seen any evidence to show that Mrs H or Mr H were treated any 
differently to Advantages other customers because of the age or abilities.
But when a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it 
to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
Mrs H was able to find alternative cover at a slightly more expensive price than that they 
managed to negotiate with Advantage after updating their car details. But this quote wasnt 
then progressed due to the system error. So I cant say whether or not this quote would have 
been accurate. So I cant say that the error caused Mrs H any loss or that Advantage needs 
to do anything further to restore her position.
But I think Advantages error caused Mrs H and Mr H stress and upset when it wasnt able to 
provide them with a renewal. Advantage has offered to pay Mrs H £100 compensation for 
this. I think thats in keeping with our published guidance for the impact the error had. And so 
Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable. I dont require Advantage to increase this. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs H £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as it has already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as it has 
already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman