DRN-2901730
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly cancelled his car 
insurance policy, as well as about the amount he was charged as a result of this.
For ease of reading any reference to Watford includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr M took out a car insurance policy with Watford. After the policy had started Watford 
asked for the driving licence details for Mr M and the additional driver to verify the policy.
On 4 March 2020 the broker, Mr M used to buy the policy, wrote to him to request the 
information on behalf of Watford and asked for it to be provided within the next 21 days. Mr 
M replied on 16 March 2020 with a photo of his driving licence. There followed e-mail 
correspondence between Mr M and the broker about what exactly was needed, and the 
deadline to provide the information was extended until 6 April 2020. Mr M then provided his 
DVLA check code to the broker on 2 April 2020. As the named drivers driving licence details 
hadnt been received, the broker responded to Mr M to let him know this was still needed by 
6 April 2020.
Mr M replied to say he was having difficulties with the DVLA and asked for an extension.    
Mr M then had until 20 April 2020 to provide the information to prevent the policy being 
cancelled. As Watford didnt hear anything by that date it cancelled Mr Ms policy. The broker 
wrote and sent a text to Mr M on 21 April 2020 to let him know his policy had been 
cancelled, along with the amount owed for the policy. On the same day Mr M e-mailed the 
broker to complain about the cancellation and asked for a refund of what hed paid.
Watford looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had written to Mr M
on several occasions through e-mails and texts to let him know what was needed. It also
said extensions had been provided and because the information hadnt been received it
didnt think it had done anything wrong. Watford explained it had charged Mr M £65.67 for its 
time on risk. Mr M disagreed, he said hed had issues getting the information needed from 
the DVLA because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and it wasnt his fault he couldnt provide the 
named drivers details in time. Mr M referred his complaint here.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found
that Mr M had been told what was needed and provided a reasonable time to send it to 
them. He found that as Watford hadnt received an update to say Mr M couldnt provide the 
information by the date requested, he didnt think it had done anything wrong by cancelling 
his policy. He also said hed checked with the DVLA and been told theyd operated online 
and over the phone during the pandemic.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the DVLA website hadnt worked and he wasnt able to get
through on the phone. Because of this he didnt think hed been treated fairly and asked for
an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say: 
We have the right to cancel Your Policy at any time by giving You seven days 
notice in writing where there is an exceptional or valid reason for doing so. We 
will send Our cancellation letter to the latest address We have for You and will set 
out the reason for cancellation in Our letter. Exceptional or valid reasons may 
include but are not limited to: 
The terms go on to provide a list of reasons and one of them is where Watford hasnt been 
provided the driving licence details for all drivers named on the policy. 
I can see that Mr M was initially given 21 days to provide the licence details for all drivers. As 
Mr M had difficulty getting the information needed, the time limit to provide the information 
was extended. He was also told more than seven days in advance that his policy would be 
cancelled if it he didnt provide the information requested. As Watford didnt hear back from 
Mr M by the extended deadline, his policy was cancelled. Im satisfied Watford has acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy when cancelling it and also acted fairly and 
reasonably by extending the deadline when Mr M said he had difficulties getting the 
information needed. 
Ive also considered what Watford charged Mr M. I can see from the breakdown and the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy that Watford has only charged Mr M for the insurance 
he used. As hes paid proportionately for his time on risk, Im satisfied the £65.67 Watford 
charged is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman