DRN-3408936
The complaint
Mr J complains that TM Advances Limited (TMA) irresponsibly lent him two loans. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
On the evidence, I think TMA should have taken its checks further by gaining a clear 
understanding of Mr Js financial circumstances at the time, I say this because the 
results of the credit search showed that Mr J was dependent on credit and bearing in 
mind his monthly income of nearly £5,000, the warning on his credit file about him 
being a high risk consumer and likely to struggle to repay borrowing should have 
concerned TMA. 
Ive reviewed Mr Js bank statements from the time of the loans to get a better 
understanding of his financial circumstances, and they show that Mr J was 
dependent on credit borrowing from more than five high cost credit and despite the 
income on his bank statement being more than he declared at the time of application, 
Mr J was still needing to borrow to survive as this had become a pattern.
Beyond the pounds and pence calculation TMA needed to ensure that Mr J could 
repay the loan without suffering adverse financial impact. Further borrowing 
negatively impacted Mr J and TMA should have been aware of this and shouldnt 
have lent to him.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Js complaint.
Putting things right
To Put things right TMA should:
a. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards the loan.
b. Deduct the capital amount of £3,000 from the repayments above.
c. Add 8% simple interest* on any overpayments from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement.
d. If theres still an outstanding balance after reworking the account, TMA should agree 
a suitable repayment plan with Mr J.
e. Remove any adverse information you have recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to 
the loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. TMA should give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and TM Advances Limited should 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman