DRN-2635481
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance (Santander), didnt promptly credit an insurance payment towards his finance 
agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand there is conflicting evidence to demonstrate where the mistake happened. Ive 
seen evidence that suggests the insurance company used the correct account number and 
that Santander were told the incorrect account number. On that basis its difficult to establish 
fault but what is clear is that Mr W has been inconvenienced.
Mr W raised the issue on 31 March 2020 having been informed by his insurance company 
that the payment had been made on 17 March 2020. He was still chasing Santander on 17 
April 2020 as the account wasnt showing as settled and he was clearly concerned about the 
impact this could have on him.
I think Santander could have done more to assist Mr W. They knew a payment was 
expected and it was a little unfair to expect him to do all the chasing. In light of that Ive 
considered whether the £50 payment they offered, and the subsequent £25 payment in 
relation to not zeroing the balance on a credit file report, was sufficient. 
I think it was as, whilst Mr W had been inconvenienced, I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence of him being financially disadvantaged; there is insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate which company made the error and I accept Santanders suggestion that not 
zeroing the balance on Mr Ws credit file would not impact his credit score if, as they have 
explained, the debt was shown as settled. So, Im not asking Santander to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman