DRN-3592211
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Countrywide Assured Plc (Countrywide) unreasonably continued to 
take premiums for her reviewable whole of life policy despite knowing she had since moved 
abroad  which meant the premiums ought to have ceased after one year.  
What happened
The policy began in June 1999. It was sought through a third party financial adviser and 
offered critical illness cover of £65,000 in addition to a sum assured of £81,000. 
In 2007, Mrs A moved outside of the UK to mainland Europe, where she still resides. 
In 2014, Mrs A reduced the policys critical illness benefit to £50,000 following a review. In 
2019, she reduced the critical illness benefit to £40,000. 
In July 2021 Mrs A contacted Countrywide about making a claim under the policy. She said 
she had sadly been diagnosed with a type of cancer. 
However, after Mrs A had chased several times for updates, Countrywide said in September 
2021 that it was unable to consider a claim under the policy. This was because the terms set 
out that once a policyholder had been resident outside of the UK for a year or more, the 
critical illness cover provided under the policy should cease. It explained that the premium 
payment for critical illness ought to have stopped in 2008.
Mrs A complained. Countrywide said its decision was correct and in line with Mrs As policy 
terms. However, it agreed that a compensation payment of £100 was warranted because it 
could have told Mrs A right away about the policy terms, but it had mistakenly begun to look 
into her claim. This meant Mrs A had to chase it several times for an answer.  
Countrywide agreed to make a refund of all of the premiums Mrs A had paid from January 
2008, including the life cover cost. This amounted to £6,900.55 plus a further £57.98 interest 
(at a gross rate of 0.4% less tax). 
Mrs A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed 
the complaint and said he felt Countrywide had behaved fairly in terms of the claim  as Mrs 
As critical illness benefit ought to have stopped in 2008. He also noted how Countrywide 
had allowed a refund of all premiums which was beyond what it was required to do. Finally, 
he felt £100 was a reasonable amount of compensation for the upset Mrs A was caused.  
However, our investigator thought Countrywide should have calculated interest at 8% 
simple, the rate used by this service. He therefore said it should pay that sum to Mrs A.  
Mrs A said that there had been a review of the policy in 2014, and Countrywide had not 
mentioned the critical illness benefit ending despite her address being correctly recorded as 
overseas. Our investigator explained that this wasnt something Mrs A had complained about 
before and Countrywide hadnt addressed it. However, he felt the outcome of the complaint 
was unaffected by the review. Countrywides system failure meant Mrs As overseas address 
change wasnt picked up; it didnt note on an automated basis that she lived abroad for over 
12 months. It was only when the policy was reviewed in 2021 that the error was noticed.  
Mrs A said she felt that the offer Countrywide had made did not go far enough to address 
her upset. She therefore wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She also 
supplied a letter with further comments. I have read the letter in its entirety, though I wont 
repeat it in full here. It set out in summary that:
she wanted confirmation from the investigator that whatever outcome an ombudsman 
may reach, Countrywide would pay the return of premiums in full plus 8% interest;
she believes that the various conversations she has had with Countrywide at the 
times of the changes to the sums assured do change the outcome of the complaint;
it is not her fault that Countrywides systems failed in 2007/8 when she did inform it 
that she was moving overseas;
she is astonished that on speaking with Countrywide (for example regarding the 
review of 2014) its systems did not flag that she lived overseas and therefore that 
critical illness cover was no longer an option for her;
she could have otherwise taken out cover in her country of residence but the failing 
denied her that opportunity;
when she contacted Countrywide in 2021 she accepts that there wasnt a clear 
confirmation that her diagnosis would have met a critical illness claim for cancer;
but by February 2022, she had confirmed her cancer from biopsy results - this would 
have been enough to make a critical illness claim but for Countrywides actions;
so in her view, the offer of returning the premiums with interest does not cover the 
policys sum assured for the event of a valid critical illness claim;
she wants Countrywide to consider her claim  because it continued to accept her 
premium payments whilst knowing that her claim could never be covered. 
Countrywide said it accepted our investigators view on the 8% interest, but it would not be 
prepared to pay the redress to Mrs A until an ombudsman had reviewed the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to send my best wishes to Mrs A. I was sorry to learn of her 
diagnosis and how upsetting this matter has been for her.   
Having looked at everything before me, I also believe this complaint should be upheld on the 
basis already set out by our investigator. That means consequently that I dont agree that a 
claim ought to be paid to Mrs A. I realise that this outcome may not be the answer she has 
hoped for, but Ill explain why I have reached this conclusion below.  
It is clear that once Mrs A had moved home with the intent to reside overseas, the policy was 
affected by that change. Section 14 of Mrs As policy terms Travel and Residency cover 
both temporary changes to residency and the situation where the policyholder lives outside 
the UK beyond a year. Those terms set out that:
If the insured person becomes resident in another country, or lives outside the UK 
for more than 12 months, then the following protection benefits will stop from the date 
that the Insured Person changes his [her] residency or has been living outside the 
UK for 12 months:Critical Illness Benefit 
So, no critical illness claim was payable to Mrs A beyond sometime in 2008, that being one 
year after she moved abroad.  
However, Countrywide had no facility in place to identify that issue. It did not have computer 
systems that could cross check addresses with policy provisions  that could only have been 
identified by one of its staff members having reviewed the matter, which it did not do.   
Mrs A quite understandably feels upset that Countrywide failed to have the proper systems 
in place to automatically cease her critical illness cover. Instead it carried it on until she tried 
to make her claim in 2021. That should not have happened. But, notwithstanding the upset 
Mrs A has been placed under, the correct response to a mistake on the part of a business is 
to put a consumer in the position they would have been in, but for that mistake.  
So the redress for the mistake Countrywide made isnt payment of a (potential) critical illness 
claim of £40,000 because Mrs A would never have been able to claim for that benefit under 
her Countrywide policy. What should have happened is the policy continued without that 
cover. So, Countrywide must return the premiums paying for that benefit with interest.  
Putting things right
Countrywide should refund all of the premiums Mrs A has paid (for critical illness benefit) 
from the point at which she had resides overseas for twelve months or more, with interest.  
I am pleased to note that Countrywide has both backdated the calculation to 1 January 2008 
rather than require evidence from Mrs A of her residency and confirmed that it will return her 
entire policy premiums from that date  beyond what it is required to do.  
It should, however, pay interest at a rate of 8% simple, from the date each premium was 
paid to the date of settlement. This separate interest award is intended to compensate a 
consumer for being deprived of money that they would otherwise have been able to use 
elsewhere but for a business having made a mistake of some kind. I note Countrywide 
agrees to interest at the higher rate. 
If Countrywide considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it 
should issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mrs A may be able to reclaim the 
tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable, depending on her residential status.
The other compensation which applies here is consideration of the upset and distress Mrs A 
has been caused in believing she could be insured, and then for realising this could never 
have been the case due to her change of residency outside of the UK. I can see how 
concerned and distressed Mrs A has been about that. 
Our awards are not punitive; we do not award compensation to discipline businesses. 
Instead, we make limited compensatory awards which account for the impact of any upset 
caused. Mrs A may wish to review our website for guidance around awards if she requires. 
I agree Countrywide has caused Mrs A considerable trouble, disappointment and taken 
several weeks to provide her with reply. This could have been avoided by a call handler at 
Countrywide identifying the travel and residency provisions of its whole of life policies. 
However, Countrywide has suggested an award in the range of what would be considered 
reasonable if I had made a direction myself in circumstances akin to these. And as Ive said above it has agreed to pay a greater premium refund to Mrs A than it is obliged to. 
I therefore dont believe it should do anything more besides sending the payment to Mrs A (if 
it remains outstanding) along with the premium refund using the correct 8% simple interest. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Countrywide Assured Plc must pay Mrs A the redress Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman