DRN-3602753
The complaint
Ms A has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim under a home 
emergency policy.
What happened
Ms A contacted UKI to report a leak from her kitchen sink. An engineer visited and found that 
the leak was coming from the waste disposal unit. The engineer said he couldnt deal with 
the leak because waste disposal units werent covered by the policy. Ms A contacted UKI 
and said she didnt need a new waste disposal unit to be fitted, she wanted it replaced by a 
pipe instead. UKI said waste disposal units werent covered by the policy.
When Ms A complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said waste 
disposal units werent covered by the policy, so UKI had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions.
As Ms A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Ms A contacted UKI, she said the kitchen sink was leaking. When an engineer visited, 
it was found that it was actually the waste disposal unit that was leaking. The policy terms 
and conditions said:
We wont pay:

 to replace pumps, water tanks, radiators, cylinders, water softeners, waste disposal units, 
macerators or part of your central heating
So, the policy doesnt cover the replacement of waste disposal units. Im aware that Ms A 
has said she wants a pipe fitted rather than a waste disposal unit. The definition of the word 
replace in the dictionary is Put back in place, take place of, succeed, be substituted for. 
So, what Ms A wants UKI to do would still be replacing the waste disposal unit - by removing 
it and fitting a pipe in its place. Based on the wording of the policy, Im satisfied that isnt 
covered.
Im aware that Ms A has explained why it is so important to her that the issue with the waste 
disposal unit is dealt with under her home emergency policy and I was sorry to read this. 
However, based on the terms and conditions of the policy, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for UKI to decline the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require 
UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman