DRN-3145389
The complaint
Mr T complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold him a personal protection policy.
Mr T is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as being made 
by him directly. Any reference to Zurich includes those acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr T took out a personal protection policy during an advised sale with Zurich, and following a 
declined claim complained that it had been mis-sold. 
Mr T said hed wanted a policy that included an unemployment benefit of permanent total 
disability (PTD), and had only realised that such a benefit hadnt been included within his 
policy following the declinature of his claim. 
Zurich said there was no evidence of PTD being raised as a requirement for Mr T at time 
and explained that, even if it had been, he would not have been eligible for it. Zurich said it 
could see that a waiver of contributions (WOC) benefit had been requested for Mr T, but its 
underwriter had declined that benefit. And it said that it had sent Mr T policy documentation 
at the time which made it clear neither PTD nor WOC applied to his policy. 
Zurich also said it had sent Mr T a cancellation notice, and because that had not been 
returned it had assumed he was happy to proceed with the policy recommended. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She said unemployment cover/PTD wasnt 
listed as a need or recommended for Mr T and although the WOC benefit was, the policy 
documentation had made it clear that neither were being provided. Our investigator said the 
policy appeared suitable for Mr Ts reported needs at the time, and so she did not think it 
had been mis-sold. 
Mr T disagreed. I wont recite all of the arguments he raised in response to our investigators 
opinion in full here, but in summary he said hed trusted the sellers advice and hadnt seen 
either the application or policy documentation. He said he was under the impression that 
PTD and WOC were part of his policy, hed wanted full cover and PTD was a need for him, 
and despite having paid a lot towards his cover it was not actually worth anything to him. 
Mr T also said hed been sold different policies every two to three years and now believed 
this was due to the related commission being front-loaded. 
Our investigator explained that Mr T concerns about commission were a separate matter 
from this complaint, and because they remained of the opinion the policy had not been mis-
sold the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings I want to highlight that Ill only be commenting on those matters I 
consider central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Zurich sold Mr Ts policy on an advised basis. So, it needed to ensure the policy it 
recommend was suitable for his needs and circumstances at the time. It also needed to 
provide information about the policy in a clear, fair, and not misleading way. 
Looking at the available evidence from the time of the sale I can see a three page summary 
of requirements document. This is marked as being for Mr T and presented by Zurich. The 
first page of this document details Mr Ts requirements which include points such protecting 
his mortgage if he were to die, and ensuring his premiums were paid if he were to be unable 
to work due to sickness or disability. There is not however any reference to unemployment 
cover being a requirement. 
The second page of the document details the policy recommended. Information such as the 
policy commencement date and the sum assured is provided on this page. As is some 
additional text in bold which explains that no accident, sickness and unemployment product 
has been selected. There is no policy specific information on the third page of the document. 
A policy application form is also available which correlates with the requirements set out in 
the summary document referenced above. Thats because it shows that PTD was not being 
applied for and WOC was. 
The policy documentation Zurich has shown it sent is available too and this sets out what 
benefits were, and were not, a feature of Mr Ts policy. Namely, the terms and conditions 
explained that the benefits applicable to the policy were set out in the policy schedule, and 
the policy schedule confirmed:
The Permanent Total Disability Benefit (own Occupation) does not apply 
The Waiver of Contribution Benefit does not apply.  
I appreciate Mr T says unemployment cover was a need for him and the seller of the policy 
knew this too, but as our investigator rightly explained, the contemporaneous evidence in 
this complaint does not substantiate that. The documentation from the time of the sale 
indicates that unemployment cover was not a requirement for Mr T, and if it was I cant see 
that he queried its absence when it wasnt listed as such. 
Mr T has told this service he did not receive the policy schedule, but given Zurich has shown 
it was sent at the same time as the terms and conditions and Mr T has made reference to 
having those, I think it likely that the schedule was provided to him too. However, even if I 
were to find that Mr T did not receive those documents Id still not be persuaded that his 
policy was mis-sold. And I say this because the available evidence from the time of the sale 
does not indicate that unemployment cover/PTD was a requirement for him. 
Mr T has also told this service that he never saw a copy of the application form and the seller 
did not explain that the WOC benefit had been declined. I empathise with Mr Ts frustrations 
about this, but again, even if I were to find that Mr T didnt see the application form and the 
seller didnt explain the WOC benefit had been declined, Im not persuaded this would 
render his policy mis-sold. Collectively the summary of requirements set out what Mr Ts 
needs were and what had been recommended for him, and the policy documentation, 
namely the policy schedule, set out what was and was not included within his policy. 
I do empathise with the trust Mr T says he placed in the advice being given and will set out 
that the above is in no way intended to imply that I doubt what Mr T has said. It is just that 
the available evidence from the time of the sale does not corroborate his complaint and I am unable to fairly conclude that his policy was mis-sold based on it. 
For the reasons given above I am of the opinion that the policy Zurich sold was suitable for 
Mr Ts needs and circumstances at the time, and the information given about it and its key 
features was provided in clear, fair, and not misleading way. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman