DRN-3266478
The complaint
Mr H trading as company E has complained about the reduction in his No Claims Discount 
(NCD) following a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy with Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
Mr H bought a commercial motor insurance policy with RSA. Unfortunately he was involved 
in an incident where he accidentally reversed into a parked car while making a delivery and 
this resulted in a claim against the policy. 
At renewal, Mr Hs NCD had reduced to three years and his premium was much higher. Mr 
H had previously held nine years NCD and so he thought the reduction was harsh and 
unfair. He complained to RSA. 
RSA didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It explained that the policy he bought set out the 
maximum NCD RSA started from and what the impact of a claim would have on the number 
of years NCD Mr H held. So RSA said it had acted correctly and in line with the policy. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt find RSA had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr H didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt for us to decide how many years NCD an insurer agrees to accept under their 
policies. This varies across the open market  but it isnt unusual to see a maximum limit on 
the number of years NCD an insurer accepts. If a customer chooses to protect their NCD, 
this can reduce the impact of a claim against the number of years a customer holds. Mr H 
hadnt protected his NCD. 
So  the remaining issue for me to decide is whether RSA clearly set out how it would apply 
Mr Hs NCD when he bought the policy  and if it has applied the term fairly in his 
circumstances. 
Under Mr Hs policy RSA provided a step back table to show how it would apply Mr Hs 
NCD depending on the number of claims made and the new NCD at renewal. RSA also 
wrote the following:
How does no claim discount work
You earn No Claim Discount for each year of claim free driving, increasing annually 
up to a maximum of 5 or more years, which, with Van, gives a maximum discount 
from your base premium. A single at-fault claim during a one year period of insurance 
(or not at-fault claim if you are unable to recover your uninsured losses) reduces your 
maximum No Claim Discount to 3 years and 2 at-fault claims will reduce your 
discount to 1 year.
So I think RSA clearly explained how it would deal with Mr Hs NCD. And as a claim was 
made against the policy, this meant RSA reduced the NCD to three years in line with the 
policy terms. 
I understand Mr H feels the reduction and the impact on his premium at renewal is very 
unfair. But RSA has shown that it treated Mr H as it would any other customer in his 
circumstances  and in line with the policy terms which were clearly set out when he bought 
the policy. And so if Mr H didnt agree with this term, he was able to change his mind within 
the cooling off period and look for alternative cover elsewhere. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H. But this means I dont think RSA needs to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman