DRN-1146252
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently Mr M held with Santander UK Plc. 
Hes unhappy at having to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when he arranged to sell 
his property and redeem the mortgage, believing hed get a new mortgage for his next 
house. The new application was approved but for a lot less than Mr M had wanted. He 
continued with his sale and purchase by obtaining a mortgage for the full amount with 
another lender. But this meant paying an ERC to Santander, which Mr M says is unfair and 
should be refunded.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr M when my decision is 
published.
Mr Ms existing mortgage was around £103,000, and hed agreed a new fixed rate deal with 
Santander in August 2018; this left him liable for an ERC if he repaid the mortgage before 
November 2020. He did anticipate selling the property and buying a cheaper one before 
then, but had been told that the rate could be ported to a new mortgage on the new 
property.
In the spring of 2019, Mr M agreed a sale of his current property. He was buying a new place 
for around £94,000, but wanted to keep much of the equity back to spend on it. He applied to 
borrow £84,000 on the new mortgage, but after several weeks of deliberation, Santander 
said it would only be willing to lend to broadly the same loan to value ratio he already had 
(around 70%). 
This equated to a new mortgage of £67,000, and would have meant Mr M having to use 
almost all of the equity from the sale, leaving him barely enough to pay his conveyancing 
fees. He didnt want to lose his sale or his new purchase so looked around for a mortgage 
with another lender. Mr M succeeded in sourcing a mortgage for the amount he wanted and 
his sale and purchase both went ahead. However, this meant repaying the Santander, and 
without a new Santander mortgage to port the fixed rate to, he had to pay an ERC of around 
£3,100.
Mr M complained about the lending decision, and about how long Stander took to reach it. 
Santander apologised for the latter, and sent £50 to Mr Ms current account. But it stood by 
its decision not to lend him the full amount hed asked for sand refused to refund the ERC. When Mr M referred his complaint to us, our investigator wasnt persuaded Santander had 
done anything wrong. Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender has lent before, 
its not obliged to do so again. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an 
application for lending, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending 
criteria. Generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders 
commercial judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that 
position here. 
In his email to our investigator asking for the case to be reviewed, Mr M has gone into some 
detail on why he thinks Santanders lending decision was flawed. I dont doubt his strength of 
feeling, but its not for me to make my own assessment of how much Mr M should have been 
allowed to borrow and then impose that on Santander. Different lenders have different 
lending criteria, and just because another lender was willing to lend Mr M the amount he 
wanted doesnt mean Santander was at fault because it wasnt. 
Mr M challenges why Santander apparently had no issue with his previous level of mortgage 
debt (which was higher still than the amount he applied for) when it provided the new rate in 
2018. Its important to keep in mind that the August 2018 transaction wasnt a new lending 
decision but a new product deal. The two things dont require the same assessment of risk, 
plus Mr M seems to be forgetting that when he renewed his rate Santander still had the 
security of his more valuable previous property to rely on. When it was asked to lend against 
the security of a less-valuable property, Santander elected to maintain its loan-to-value 
exposure. 
I note Mr M says he was assured more than once in conversation that he could port to a 
cheaper property, and I dont doubt he will have been told it was possible. But possible 
doesnt mean guaranteed, and Id direct Mr Ms attention to what the written offer for his new 
rate deal said in August 2018.
In section 10 on page 8, under the heading What happens if you move house?, the offer 
said:
 
 
If you move house you may be able to transfer this mortgage to another property as 
long as you meet the conditions set out in the mortgage conditions booklet under 'Transferring your loan to a new mortgage'. You must also meet our lending criteria 
and pass our affordability assessment at that time.
I dont find there to be any ambiguity in that narrative. It let Mr M know (or certainly should 
have done) that porting is a possibility (not a certainty) and that to achieve it, any fresh 
mortgage application he made in due course would be subject to assessment against 
Santanders lending criteria in force at the time of the application. 
Thats what happened in 2019, and whilst clearly the outcome was unwelcome for Mr M, it 
wasnt unfair, and thats the test I have to apply here. Mr M was in possession of 
Santanders position before he was contractually obliged to proceed with the sale and 
purchase. The decision he made thereafter (to go ahead and move lender, this incurring an 
ERC) was ultimately his right to make, but it was also his choice; and Mr M has to accept the 
consequences of the choice he made.
That leaves the amount of time Santander took to reach its decision. It was about six weeks; 
our investigator didnt consider this to be excessive and whilst of course I understand Mr M 
would have wanted a decision is as soon as possible, Im inclined to agree that it was 
broadly within what wed consider normal. Nonetheless, Santander has said there was a 
delay, and has paid Mr M £50 compensation. If it hadnt, I wouldnt have made such an 
award.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman