DRN-2170559
The complaint
Mrs K says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Mrs K says she had several short-term loans and was struggling financially but was 
allowed to rollover her loans. She has told us that it has taken her a long time to clear the 
debt. The lending has caused Mrs Ks physical and mental health to suffer and had a 
negative impact on her credit file. 
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs K between April 2010 
and February 2012. Mrs Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken 
OutDate Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 27/04/2010 15/08/2011 Payday £200 £255.00
2 29/02/2012 20/06/2014 Payday £450     £562.50
Mr Lender told us that for loan one it had already repaid to Mrs K £200 (plus 8% interest) for 
the interest and fees that she had paid for the rollovers after 15 April 2011. It told us the 
£200 refund was paid in in May 2015 with the 8% interest being paid in June 2015. Mr 
Lender also said that when Mrs K contacted it about her financial hardship on                       
7 January 2013 it put a repayment plan in place for loan two which enabled Mrs K to repay 
the loan in full. 
The first of our adjudicators who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
They thought the number of loans taken and the amounts borrowed didnt show Mrs K may 
have been experiencing financial difficulty and there was wasnt anything in the information 
gathered by Mr Lender that showed the lending was unsustainable for her. He also noted the 
rollover interest on loan one that Mr Lender told us had already been repaid. 
Mrs K didnt agree with the adjudicator and also wanted to see evidence of the redress Mr 
Lender said it paid to her in June 2015 for the later rollovers on loan one. 
When asked, Mr Lender didnt provide this as it said it wasnt relevant to this complaint as 
the complaint hadnt been upheld. 
The second of our adjudicators to look at the complaint thought it should be partially upheld. 
They thought that Mr lender should uphold Mrs Ks complaint for loan one at an earlier date 
and shouldnt have allowed any further rollovers from rollover five as by then there was 
evidence Mrs K was experiencing financial difficulty. They also thought that loan two 
shouldnt have been given, as despite the gap in lending between loan one being repaid and 
loan two being given, it had taken Mrs K 16 months to repay loan one and this would 
suggest she would struggle to repay loan two and that it would be unsustainable for her. 
In response, Mr Lender did offer to uphold at rollover five and onwards on loan one. We put 
this offer to Mrs K, but she didnt want to accept it.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs K could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mrs K didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that the rollovers before the fifth rollover 
on loan one shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing 
disagreement about these. So, I wont be making a decision about rollovers one to four. But 
they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs K had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I 
will take into account when considering the other lending she took. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ks complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Before agreeing to the loans Mr Lender asked Mrs K for details of her employment and 
income. And for loan two it also carried out a credit check. From the information recorded by 
Mr Lender, these loans would have seemed affordable and I dont think Mr Lender was 
wrong to have agreed to the lending on a pounds and pence basis  they appeared 
affordable for Mrs K. 
Mr Lender has told us Mrs K chose to make interest only payments for both the loans. It 
says this facility provides its customers with flexibility in repaying the loan. It says Mrs K was 
made aware that she could make additional capital payments at any point so as to reduce 
the interest applicable to the capital outstanding. A rollover meant the loan was rolled over in 
return for a monthly payment of additional interest. For loan one this was £50 per rollover 
and for loan two it was £112.50.
For loan one this happened repeatedly on a monthly basis incurring at £50 charge each 
month from April 2010 to July 2011. I think that after the loan had been rolled over four 
times, Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayment was potentially problematic for 
Mrs K and a possible sign she was experiencing financial difficulties. It should have 
responded to her sympathetically and positively rather than letting her rollover further.
So, I think that after the fourth rollover Mr Lender should have realised that further lending 
was unsustainable for Mrs K and it shouldnt have agreed to rollovers five and onwards.      
Mrs K was only servicing the debt and not repaying any of the capital borrowed.
The credit agreement for loan one shows that the loan was to be repaid in 16 days, albeit 
with the facility to rollover. But it took Mrs K a total of 16 months to repay the loan  incurring 
the rollover interest charge each time and not repaying any of the capital. So, I think Mrs Ks 
borrowing behaviour made it clear to she was really struggling with her finances.
When Mrs K applied for loan two, Mr Lenders records show that her financial situation had 
not changed. Her income was the same as for loan one, but the amount borrowed at loan 
two more than doubled to £450. And while I appreciate there was a gap of six months 
between loan one being repaid and loan two being taken, I think Mr Lender should have 
taken note of Mrs Ks previous borrowing behaviour  a significant number of rollovers and a 
total of 16 months before loan one was repaid  and recognised that as her financial 
circumstances hadnt changed, and the amount borrowed had doubled, it was unlikely that 
loan two would be sustainable for Mrs K. So, I dont think loan two should have been given 
to Mrs K. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about rollover five and onwards on loan one and loan two 
and Mr Lender should put things right.
Mr Lender has said that it previously repaid Mrs K for rollovers after 14 April 2011 on loan 
one and that payment had been made in 2015. Mrs K asked for evidence of this, but Mr 
Lender said it wasnt relevant as at that time as the complaint wasnt being upheld. Now that 
position has changed, Mr Lender needs to give this evidence to Mrs K if it intends on taking 
the repayment it says it has already made into account and deduct it from any redress due 
when putting things right as Ive outlined below.
Putting things rightrefund all interest and charges Mrs K paid on loan one for rollovers five and onwards 
and for loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan one for rollovers five and onwards and 
for loan two from Mrs Ks credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Ks complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman