DRN-3961361
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned down a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had a comprehensive car insurance policy with Ageas. In October 2021 he had an 
accident in which his car was damaged. He made a claim on his insurance, and his car was 
taken to a garage for repair.
Ageas asked to see Mr Ms driving licence, but he explained that it had expired in October 
2020 and was with the DVLA, waiting for renewal. And he mentioned that the DVLA had 
asked him to complete a medical questionnaire to establish whether he was fit to drive. 
Around seven weeks after the accident Ageas told Mr M that it hadnt been able to validate 
his licence details or to establish that hed been entitled to drive at the time of the accident. It 
said that it was closing his claim, pending further information. The car was returned to Mr M 
unrepaired. 
Unhappy with Ageass response to his claim, Mr M complained to this service. As well as 
being dissatisfied with Ageass refusal to deal with his claim, Mr M said he wasnt happy that 
his car had been left in the street, leading to complaints from neighbours and a £50 parking 
fine. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
She explained that she thought it had been fair of Ageas to close the claim as it couldnt 
confirm Mr Ms entitlement to drive. And she said that the DVLA had since confirmed that 
Mr M shouldnt have been driving at the date of the accident. 
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Ageas on 20 January 2023. I said:
Mr Ms licence had expired almost a year before his accident in October 2021. Hes 
explained that at the time of the accident hed applied to renew it. It seems that he may have 
been under the impression that his licence had been automatically extended, under a special 
provision designed to cover delays caused by the covid pandemic. But the DVLA has 
explained that the extension to driving licences didnt apply in Mr Ms case  and even if hed 
been eligible for an extension, it would only have been for 11 months. The accident was just 
a few days short of 12 months after Mr Ms licence expired. So an 11-month extension 
wouldnt have covered the day of the accident in any event.
But its not in dispute that Mr M had held a driving licence in the past. 
Mr Ms certificate of insurance stated that he was entitled to drive:
 provided that [Mr M] holds a licence to drive the vehicle or has held and is not 
disqualified for holding or obtaining such a licence.
Mr Ms insurance policy contained some exclusions. Exclusion 1 said:
We will not pay any claims arising directly or indirectly from any of the following:

(b) The car being driven, with your permission, by anyone who you know does not 
hold a driving licence or is disqualified from driving. However, we will still give cover if 
the person used to hold a licence and is allowed to hold one by law.
I asked for Ageass comments on this wording. It responded that its meant to cover people 
whose licence has expired. But it said that Mr M had told it his licence had been revoked, 
and that it had explained to him that that was a different matter.
Ive listened carefully to the various recordings of phone calls with Mr M that Ageas has 
provided, including a long conference call between Mr M, Ageas and DVLA. In the first of 
two calls which took place ten days after the accident, Mr M said that following the earlier 
accident in June 2021, the DVLA had written to him asking him to send in his old licence with 
a questionnaire about his fitness to drive. Hed done that, but hadnt yet heard back. Ageas 
asked him whether the accompanying letter from DVLA said anything about whether he 
could continue to drive and he said it didnt, so he assumed he could. 
In another call later that day, Mr M said the reason DVLA had wanted him to send it his old 
licence was that it had expired. Mr M read out the letter hed had from DVLA in January 2021 
(well before either of the two accidents) and it said his licence entitlement had expired on 
20 October 2020. There had been some speculation in the previous call that DVLA had 
contacted him because the police had alerted it after the June 2021 incident. But based on 
the second call, it seems most likely to me, on balance, that DVLA had contacted Mr M 
purely because his licence had expired a few months before  and it seems likely that it sent 
him the medical form as a matter of routine.
Ageas then explained to Mr M that it needed to establish that he had entitlement to drive at 
the time of the October 2021 accident. It commented that at best an 11-month extension for 
covid would have taken him to September 2021, but the accident was in October 2021. That 
suggests to me that Ageas was still focussing on whether Mr M had a valid licence. But the 
wording in the policy certificate clearly indicates that someone will still be covered if their 
licence has expired, just as long as theres no legal reason why they shouldnt have a 
licence. 
Ageas then told Mr M that it would only expect DVLA to be happy for him to continue to drive 
if it had positively confirmed that he could. It said the DVLA was experiencing big backlogs, 
and it wasnt a given that it would allow him to drive once it had considered his application 
and medical form  and it might attach conditions. It explained that as things stood, it 
couldnt confirm the status of Mr Ms driving licence.
Mr M confirmed again that the police had called on him the day after the October 2021 
accident, and had given him a form. But it seems it was the same form hed already sent to 
the DVLA with his old licence, and that was pending consideration. Mr M said that the police 
told him that according to their mobile system his licence was revoked. He then went on to 
say that he assumed his licence was revoked because it had expired. Ageas explained the 
difference between a licence having simply expired and having been revoked. And it said 
that it was possible that DVLA had told him he shouldnt be driving. So it was important that 
they work out the status of Mr Ms licence.Having listened to the other call recordings, I listened again to the conference call between 
Mr M, Ageas and DVLA. DVLA initially said that Mr M had a full licence, and it was unable to 
confirm (as Ageas had requested) whether it had ever been revoked or rescinded. Ageas 
explained to DVLA that it was trying to establish whether Mr M had an entitlement to drive 
on 16 October 2021. And it asked whether Mr M was legally entitled to drive on that date. 
Ageas commented that if Mr M was renewing his licence every three years and had renewed 
it in 2017, it would have come up for renewal again in 2020. 
DVLA then said it had checked another system, and that for some reason or another - but it 
couldnt say why  Mr Ms entitlement to drive ran out in October 2020 and he was not 
covered to drive from October 2020 to November 2021. Ageas responded So between 
October 2020 and 8 November 2021 the gentleman had no entitlement to drive. And it 
asked Does it give any specific reason why he wasnt covered to drive? DVLA said No. It 
doesnt say anything. It then confirmed that Mr M was granted a medical licence in 
November 2021 (just over three weeks after the accident), another medical licence from 
December 2021 to April 2022 then a normal three-year medical licence. So hed been 
entitled to drive continuously from 8 November 2021.
Ive borne in mind that in the course of his conversations with Ageas, Mr M told Ageas that 
when the police called on him the day after the October 2021 accident, they told him that 
according to their mobile system, his licence had been revoked. But the police and/or Mr M 
may not have been choosing their words particularly carefully. Its also possible that Mr M 
may have mis-remembered the exact words used. Ageas asked DVLA specifically about 
this, but DVLA wasnt able to confirm that Mr Ms licence had been revoked. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have. And Im not satisfied that I can fairly 
conclude that Mr Ms licence had been revoked. Having thought very carefully about all the 
evidence and information thats been provided, I think it highly likely that the reason why 
Mr Ms entitlement to drive ran out, as DVLA put it, in October 2020, was just that the 
three-year licence hed got in October 2017 (as confirmed by DVLA) had run out - in other 
words, it had expired and he hadnt yet renewed it. Ive not seen anything, other than Mr Ms 
rather vague account of what the police said to him, to suggest that there was some specific 
reason why he wouldnt have been entitled to a licence when the accident occurred. 
I acknowledge that its clear that DVLA wanted to check Mr Ms fitness to drive before 
issuing a new licence. But I dont think that implies that Mr M wasnt allowed to hold [a 
licence] by law as referred to in the insurance certificate. I think that was a question that 
was in the process of being determined at the time. The fact that he was issued with a 
licence from 8 November 2021 shows that even though he didnt have a licence at the time 
of the accident, it was eventually established that there was no reason in law why he 
shouldnt have one. And I cant see that Mr M was disqualified from holding or obtaining a 
licence, or that he wasnt allowed by law to hold one. In fact, I think it reasonably likely that if 
it hadnt been for the delays at DVLA, Mr M would have already been issued with a medical 
licence by the date of the accident and the need for this complaint wouldnt have arisen.
Id like to comment that its clear to me that Ageas has gone to some considerable effort in 
this case to try to establish what the status of Mr Ms driving licence was at the time of the 
October 2021 accident. I dont have any doubt that it was genuinely trying to reach the right 
outcome. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think it was entitled to refuse to consider 
Mr Ms claim.
And so based on what Id seen so far, I thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, and my 
provisional view was that Ageas should do as Ive set out under the heading Putting things 
right below.Further submissions
Mr Ms told us that he has nothing further to add. But Ageas doesnt agree with my 
provisional decision. It says that it went to great lengths to resolve the matter in a timely 
manner. It says it explained to Mr M as early as October 2021 why it needed to validate his 
entitlement to drive with DVLA. But despite its best efforts it was unable to do so. And its 
pointed out that it wasnt until the end of March 2022 that Mr M contacted it to say hed be 
seeing his GP within the next three weeks.
Ageas says that Mr M wrote to it in April 2022 to say that he now had an entitlement to 
drive, and it then tried again to validate his driving licence history, and offered to do 
everything it could to help with the process. It says Mr M refused to co-operate with it, and it 
was only when this Service intervened in July 2022 that it was able to hold the conference 
call with Mr M and DVLA.
Whats more Ageas doesnt consider it fair to require it to pay interest at 8% on any 
settlement from the date of the incident. This is because it considers that its not been 
responsible for any delay in handling the matter. And it doesnt believe that it could have 
done any more than it did to resolve the matter quickly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that Ageas had made a considerable effort to try 
to establish what the position was regarding Mr Ms driving licence at the time of the 
accident. And I said that I realised that it had genuinely been trying to reach the right 
outcome. I remain of that view. I also acknowledge that Ageas had some difficulty contacting 
Mr M and getting responses from him.
But having thought carefully about what Ageas has said in response to my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that theres a good reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
it.
Ageas spent some considerable time trying to establish whether Mr M had a valid driving 
licence when he had the accident. But that wasnt the question that needed to be answered. 
Mr Ms policy documents made it clear that not having a valid driving licence didnt 
automatically mean that he wouldnt be covered. 
It wasnt in dispute that as at the date of the accident Mr M at the very least used to hold a 
valid licence. The crucial question was whether he was disqualified from holding or 
obtaining such a licence, as set out in the certificate of insurance. And for the reasons I set 
out in some detail in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied that Ageas established that 
there was any reason why Mr M would have been disqualified from having a licence at the 
time of the accident in October 2021.
As I commented in my provisional decision, the fact that Mr M was issued with a licence less 
than a month after the accident shows that even though he didnt have a licence at the time 
of the accident, it was eventually established that there was no reason in law why he 
shouldnt have one. And he might well already have had a licence at the date of the accident 
but for delays at DVLA.So I remain of the view that Ageas should have dealt with Mr Ms claim. It acted unfairly by 
not doing so. I accept that some of the delay was caused by Ageass difficulty in contacting, 
and getting responses from, Mr M. But Ageas added to those delays by focussing much of 
its investigation inappropriately into whether Mr M had held a valid driving licence at the date 
of the accident. Ultimately, I consider that Ageas should have dealt with Mr Ms claim within 
a reasonable time of the accident. If it had done so, the question of interest on any 
settlement wouldnt have arisen.
So having thought carefully about everything thats been said, my view remains unchanged.
Putting things right
Ageas should:
Consider Mr Ms claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
If, having assessed Mr Ms claim, Ageas makes a financial payment to him in 
settlement of the claim, pay Mr M simple interest at a rate of 8% per year on the 
amount paid, calculated from the date of the accident in October 2021 to the date of 
payment; and
Pay Mr M £200 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as 
a result of Ageass refusal to consider his claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman