DRN-3325358
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the overdraft fees HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to her 
account since 2005.
What happened
Miss C complained to HSBC and said it hadnt helped her when she was in financial 
difficulties and continued to lend to her when it shouldnt have. 
Ive previously explained why our service cant consider any complaints Miss C has raised 
about events that took place before 2014, because they were made too late. 
One of the two accounts Miss C has complained about didnt have any overdraft fees 
applied to it from 2014. This account was closed in May 2015. So I havent considered this 
account as part of this decision, given there were no overdraft fees applied in the period of 
time I can consider. 
So this decision will only be looking at whether HSBC fairly applied fees to one of Miss Cs 
accounts from 2014 onwards and how HSBC responded to Miss Cs financial difficulties after 
this date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this decision, I havent considered whether the amount of fees HSBC decided to 
charge Miss C, since 2014, were fair and reasonable. This is because this is a commercial 
decision and its down to HSBC to decide how much to charge for its services. This isnt 
something I can get involved with.
That said, Ive looked at whether HSBC was aware or ought to reasonably have been aware, 
that Miss C could be in financial difficulties through her use of her account. And if so, 
whether it was appropriate for HSBC to apply any interest, fees and charges. 
Ive looked at the notes on the account. Having done so, I can see in March 2018 Miss C 
told HSBC she was suffering with poor health which put a strain on her finances. Ive 
considered whether HSBC applied interest, fees and charges when it ought to have 
reasonably been aware Miss C was in financial difficulties between 2014 and March 2018. 
And Ive then gone on to consider how HSBC responded to Miss C once she had told it she 
was suffering from financial difficulty.
Ive reviewed the bank statements for Miss Cs accounts. Having done so, I can see in 2014, 
Miss C made use of the arranged overdraft for one day and then brought her account into 
credit the following day. Following this, the account maintained a credit balance on the 
account until May 2017. From May 2017 to August 2017, Miss C made use of her arranged 
overdraft, but due to regular payments into the account, she brought the account into credit 
each month. In the months after this, Miss Cs use of the overdraft increased, but there were 
regular credits paid into the account until around early November 2017 when she stopped 
using the account. 
Having reviewed the income and expenditure going in and out of the account from           
May 2017, there were a number of non-committed and non-contractual payments made 
each month. I appreciate this in itself doesnt mean that Miss C wasnt in financial difficulty. 
Ive also seen that between December 2017 and March 2018, HSBC wrote to Miss C each 
month recommending she made a payment into her account, as she hadnt been making 
regular payments into her account. HSBC asked Miss C to contact it if she needed it to help 
her. But Miss C didnt do this until March 2018. 
What I need to consider here is whether HSBC ought to have known that Miss C was in 
financial difficulty before March 2018. Having done so, I dont think that Miss Cs account 
usage clearly demonstrated that she was experiencing difficulty. And although HSBC wrote 
to Miss C to try and help her manage the account, the overdraft balance was still within its 
arranged limit when HSBC was writing to her until early March 2018. So I dont think HSBC 
unfairly charged Miss C any interest, fees and charges between 2014 and March 2018.
Ill now turn to consider how HSBC responded to Miss C once she had told it she was 
suffering from financial difficulty. But having done so, since Miss C contacted HSBC in    
mid-March 2018, HSBC hasnt applied any further interest, fees or charges to the account. I 
think this was reasonable action for HSBC to take once it was made aware of Miss Cs 
financial difficulties. 
Looking at the account statements since then, in March 2019, a payment by HSBC into the 
account for an unrelated matter, brought the account into credit. And following this, Miss C 
made use of the overdraft but made payments into the account to clear the overdraft in 
November 2019. Between then and January 2020, she made payments out of the account to 
another account she held. And since then, then Miss C has made no further payments into 
the account, so it remains in its overdraft. However, HSBC hasnt charged Miss C to make 
use of the overdraft.
I can see HSBC has tried to contact Miss C to try and address her financial difficulties. And 
Miss C has told us she has tried to communicate with HSBC about her financial difficulties, 
but due to health reasons she cant discuss her financial situation over the phone. I havent 
seen any supporting information to show this. But I would recommend Miss C contacts 
HSBC through a different medium if she is still suffering from financial difficulties, such as 
through the options offered on its website or by visiting a branch. And Id remind HSBC of its 
obligation to treat Miss C with forbearance and due consideration should it be the case that 
she is suffering from financial difficulties.
Overall, I dont think HSBC needs to refund any fees, charges or interest it applied to Miss 
Cs account since 2014, as I dont think it should have reasonably been aware Miss C was 
suffering from financial difficulty. And when it was made aware, it didnt apply any further 
charges to Miss Cs account and I can see it has attempted to contact Miss C to repay the 
overdraft, without success. So I dont think it needs to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman