DRN-3878843
The complaint
Mr M, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2016, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale from Moneybarn. 
Mr M was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £449.99. Mr M also paid a deposit of 
£1,225. The total repayable under the agreement was £27,774.41.
Mr M got into difficulties with meeting his regular repayments. The agreement ended in 
May 2021 with Mr M agreeing a payment plan for the balance due.
Mr M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment and although Mr Ms payment history for the agreement 
had been sporadic, this wasnt something that was due to the checks Moneybarn had carried 
out before granting the credit.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr M.
As Moneybarn hasnt responded to our adjudicators findings, despite reminders, the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Moneybarn says the credit check completed showed that Mr M had defaulted on borrowing 
in the previous 12 months and that hed had a county court judgment against him in the 
previous 24 months. Whilst Moneybarn says it was aware of these, given that there had 
been no further financial issues, it went ahead with the lending. I think, given the size and 
length of the lending it was considering offering to Mr M, Moneybarn ought to have 
recognised that there was a real risk that granting him this lending could easily contribute to 
a worsening of his financial situation. It therefore would have been proportionate for 
Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ms financial circumstances 
before lending.
Although Moneybarn obtained confirmation of Mr Ms pay by checking his payslips, which 
showed he was earning a net monthly income of around £1,900, I cant see that it asked him 
about his expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated 
what Mr Ms regular living expenses were. Without knowing more about Mr Ms regular 
committed expenditure, Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of 
whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate 
checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have verified Mr Ms financial 
circumstances. One way Moneybarn could have done this was by requesting copies of his 
bank statements. Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending 
decision. 
The statements show details about Mr Ms spending and committed expenditure at the time. 
I can see that Mr M was paying for housing costs and other daily outgoings, including 
maintenance support for his children and his other debt commitments. Mr M also provided us 
with a breakdown of his expenditure to help with understanding financial commitments at  
the time. From all this, I can see that before taking on the agreement he was paying between 
£1,900 and £2,000 each month. Even allowing for some variation each month, I think this 
demonstrates that Mr M didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional £450 
hed have to pay each month under the agreement with Moneybarn. So I think there was a 
real risk that Mr Ms financial situation would worsen significantly if by taking on the cost of 
paying for the car. I think its likely proportionate checks would have revealed this to 
Moneybarn, it therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance. 
Putting things right  what Moneybarn needs to do
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr M should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £12,435. Anything Mr M has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ms complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr M has made in excess of £12,435, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr M asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman