DRN-4164094
The complaint
Mr H and Miss H complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). 
They are not happy about the way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to LV includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H and Miss H made a claim under their home insurance policy after a neighbour caused 
damage at their property. Unfortunately, the claim was complicated as asbestos was found 
which delayed matters. And Mr H and Miss H went on to complain to LV about the delays, 
damage caused to their property (including poorly stored property) amongst other things.
LV accepted it didnt handle things very well and delayed the claim. It acknowledged that it 
should have handled things better, delayed matters and didnt store Mr H and Miss Hs 
property adequately causing damage. It settled the claim and offered £250 by way of 
compensation but as Mr H and Miss H remained unhappy they complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. Although he 
accepted LV had taken steps to put things right now he thought that the level of 
compensation should be increased to £750 (total). And he asked LV to appoint an 
independent assessor to consider two remaining issues in relation to damage caused to their 
garden and a boat motor which was damaged during the handling of the claim. 
LVs agent accepted the position outlined by the investigator. It sent Mr H and Miss H £750 
compensation and asked if they could appoint an independent assessor themselves to look 
at the boats outboard motor. 
However, LV then stopped communicating with Mr H and Miss H and this Service. So, the 
matter was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While the matter has been with me for review it has been clarified that LV are fully 
responsible for this complaint and the claim as this wasnt transparent before. It would 
appear that this contributed to the delay in finalising this matter and communicating with this 
Service as there was a transfer of responsibility for the claim.  
As both sides have agreed with the majority of the investigators position I dont propose to 
go over the finer detail again here. And I agree £750 (total) in relation to this complaint 
seems fair. I understand that Mr H and Miss H have cashed the cheque from LV in relation 
to this, so I wont be asking LV to do anything further about this. 
Turning to the potential damage caused in relation to the poor storage of the boat motor. I 
agree with the investigator that appointing an independent assessor would have made 
sense. However, as LV have failed to advance this with Mr H and Miss H over a significant 
period of time it is understandable that the outboard motor is no longer available as it has 
been disposed of. And I feel it would be fair in the circumstances to accept that the damage 
was caused as part of this claim. And so, LV should pay the cost to replace the outboard 
motor and the cost of making good the garden which they have repaired. 
So, I asked our investigator to make LV aware that Im asking them to pay the value of the 
second-hand motor and the cost of making good the garden. It accepted the position 
regarding the garden and has paid Mr H and Miss H the costs incurred but changed its 
position about the boat motor. It now said it wasnt responsible for the outboard motor as it 
believes the motor was affected by asbestos during the claim which means the damage 
wouldnt be covered under the policy.  
However, as our investigator has explained the damage to the outboard motor has mainly 
been caused by the poor handling of the claim and the failure to store the motor properly. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that it was affected by asbestos and it only seems fair, 
given the passage of time and how long the claim took to settle for LV to pay the market 
value of an equivalent second-hand outboard motor now. Indeed, Mr H and Miss H have 
been clear that the only reason the outboard motor wasnt useable was because it wasnt 
stored properly by LVs contractors which caused a significant amount of damage. And they 
have highlighted that the company that attended to clean and look after the asbestos 
problem removed all items damaged by asbestos and left the motor as it wasnt damaged 
which does suggest it wasnt contaminated. 
I think it is likely, on balance, that the asbestos removal company would have sealed and 
taken the boat motor away if it was affected upon attendance. And LVs delay in dealing with 
the claim generally has contributed to the boat motor being unavailable for inspection. And 
so, I think it is only fair for any doubt to be given to Mr H and Miss H here. As such, I think 
LV should pay the market value of the outboard motor. And Ive seen some evidence that 
this would cost around £1,495 to replace so it seems reasonable for LV to pay this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited should pay for the garden rectification work, £1495 for the boat motor and £750 
(total) in compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Miss H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman