DRN-2905575
The complaint
Ms T has complained that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited hasnt allowed her to 
transfer her flexible income annuities to an arrangement of her choice  specifically flexi-
drawdown.
What happened
Having received advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA), Ms T established two 
Advantage Flexible Income Annuities (AFIAs) with Marine & General Mutual (MGM) in 
September 2012. Ms T had capitalised on her open market option and had taken her full 
tax free cash allowance.
In establishing the arrangement, Ms T confirmed that shed received the key features 
document and other relevant paperwork (although I acknowledge Ms Ts comment that she 
didnt receive these until after the sale had completed  see below). In 2015, the terms and 
conditions relating to the policy were updated (again, Ive noted below Ms Ts comment that 
she didnt receive these) and Scottish Friendly took over the administration of the contracts.
Ms T has subsequently requested a transfer of her AFIAs into a flexi drawdown product, as 
she considered that this would better suit her circumstances, pending the receipt of further 
pension income. However, shes been informed by Scottish Friendly that, whilst the terms of 
the contracts might allow her to transfer into another type of annuity product, subject to this 
being possible under HMRC provisions, she wouldnt be able to convert the annuity 
contracts into a flexi drawdown arrangement.
Dissatisfied with the response, Ms T complained to Scottish Friendly, but it didnt uphold the 
complaint, saying the following in summary:
It confirmed that, contrary to Ms Ts understanding, the contracts werent hybrid 
arrangements which included an element of drawdown. Rather they were unit linked, 
investment backed annuities which guaranteed to pay a regular income for the rest of 
Ms Ts life, but within which the actual level of income could be varied.
It quoted from the policy terms and conditions as follows:
It may be possible to transfer your lifetime annuity to another lifetime annuity if legislation 
and HMRC rules allow and the other arrangement is willing to accept the transfer. Transfer 
to anything other than a lifetime annuity will not be permitted.
and
You can transfer your annuity to an annuity with another provider, if they are prepared to 
accept it. Any transfer must be used to provide an annuity in line with Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs rules.
It said that it could provide a change of income request form, and that although the 
next income review wasnt due until October 2021, this could be requested earlier if 
Ms T thought this would benefit her.
It noted that Ms T considered the contracts to be unfair, but it said that they had been 
administered in line with the terms and conditions and were designed to provide her 
with a regular income for the rest of her life. And so it didnt agree that this was the 
case.
Ms T then referred her complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered 
the matter and said the following:
He acknowledged Ms Ts assertion that the product had been poorly designed and 
was unsuitable, but he commented that, although she may have felt it wasnt right for 
her, this wouldnt be the case for others. And that it may have the case that it was 
the advice given to her to establish the contracts which was unsuitable. But this was 
the responsibility of Ms Ts IFA rather than Scottish Friendly.
The investigator noted that, in addition to the terms quoted by Scottish Friendly in its 
response to Ms Ts complaint, these had been updated by the following in 2015:
It may be possible to transfer your lifetime annuity to another lifetime annuity if 
legislation and HMRC rules allow and the other arrangement is willing to accept the 
transfer. Transfer to anything other than a lifetime annuity will not be permitted.
He said that this re-confirmed that the contracts were lifetime annuities and that they 
couldnt be transferred to anything which wasnt also a lifetime annuity.
He noted Ms Ts comment that she hadnt received the updated terms and 
conditions, but he also said that there was a clause within the existing terms and 
conditions which provided for the amendment to those terms if it was felt necessary 
to be consistent with HMRC requirements. Had Ms T not accepted changes to the 
terms, she would have been able to transfer to another annuity contract allowed by 
HMRCs rules. This was effectively the same position as Ms T was in now, the 
investigator said.
But, the investigator said, this didnt mean that under HMRCs provisions Ms T would 
be able to move to a flexi drawdown arrangement, as she believed to be the case. It 
would need to be transferred to another annuity contract.
The investigator also said that the key features of the contracts, including their 
lifetime annuity nature and that they could only be transferred to another type of 
annuity, had been clearly disclosed at the outset and that, by establishing the 
contracts, Ms T had agreed to this. And he said that the amendment to the terms in 
2015 didnt fundamentally change the nature of the contracts.
The investigator therefore concluded that he couldnt uphold the complaint. He thought that 
the IFA had been responsible for the suitability of the annuity contracts and that Scottish 
Friendly had acted correctly in accordance with the contracts terms and conditions. There 
was no requirement on it to allow a transfer to a flexi drawdown arrangement, he said, and 
this was unchanged by the pension freedoms introduced in 2015.
Ms T expressed disappointment at the outcome, saying the following:
She didnt think that either MGM or Scottish friendly had acted properly, and she 
didnt recall receiving either the initial key features documentation or the updated 
terms. The IFA had processed the transaction over the phone and had sent her 
documents to sign once he had closed the deal.At no time had she agreed to forfeit her pension pot, and she couldnt have been the 
only person whod been misled.
Ms T had been in contact with HMRC, who had advised her to confirm whether it was 
Scottish Friendlys internal rules which were blocking the transfer.
M&G hadnt updated her terms and conditions before Scottish Friendly took over the 
administration of the contracts. And Scottish Friendly had been vague about who 
had issued the new terms and conditions. 
As to the suitability of the contracts, Ms T said that shed had a small pension pot and 
that a male dominated financial services industry didnt work for women, especially 
in such circumstances.
As MGM had paid her adviser in respect of the sale of the contracts, this surely 
meant that he was its agent, and should have focussed on what was best for her. 
But this wasnt the case here. And M&G was also responsible as it was marketing an 
unsuitable product through the IFA.
Ms T didnt fully understand that the pension funds would be invested and it wasnt 
for her benefit in the way that an ordinary investment would be. Ms T was also 
concerned that she would need to make investment decisions for her existing 
contracts, and she didnt know how to go about this.
Ms T also asked to be signposted to a way of complaining against her IFA as she 
didnt have the means to pursue the matter in court.
As agreement on the matter couldnt be reached, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think theres much I can meaningfully add to what the investigator 
has already explained to Ms T. I do appreciate that Ms T is disappointed with that outcome, 
and Im sorry that this may only exacerbate that sense of disappointment.
I also understand Ms Ts frustration at having what she considers to be a contract which is 
unsuited to her specific situation and that she would like to be able to transfer to something 
which she considers would be more suitable for her.
But with regard firstly to the issue of suitability, as set out by the investigator, thats 
something for which the IFA who sold the contracts to Ms T would need to be held 
responsible. Ms T is right in saying that M&G was responsible for the marketing of the 
product, but as the investigator pointed out, this may be the right kind of annuity contract for 
some consumers. Ms T is also right in saying that she was entitled to expect suitable advice, 
but it was for Ms Ts IFA to determine whether this was the right kind of way of producing a 
pension income for her and her individual circumstances, and I can see that the investigator 
has signposted Ms T to her options for pursing a complaint against the IFA, or referring it to 
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if necessary, in that regard.
As to the actual inability of Ms T to transfer her annuity contract to a flexi drawdown plan, I 
can really only repeat what the investigator has already said, in that the contracts held by Ms 
T are lifetime annuity contracts, albeit with an investment element which provides for flexibility in the actual level of income taken. But that isnt quite the same as flexi drawdown, 
in which no basic annuity has been bought with pension funds and the individual is free 
(since pension freedoms were introduced) to take as much or as little from their pension pot 
as they wish.
Id also agree with the investigator that, even if Ms T hadnt received the updated terms and 
conditions in 2015, the existing terms and conditions also didnt provide for the transfer of 
her AFIAs to a flexi drawdown arrangement, on the basis that they were lifetime annuity 
contracts  albeit with a certain flexibility of annuity income due to an investment element. 
And although I note that Ms T has said that she didnt receive any paperwork until after the 
sale of the contracts, this would again be something which she would need to refer to the 
IFA, or the FSCS. M&G, for its part, would reasonably have been entitled to believe that, by 
establishing the annuity contracts, Ms T was accepting and agreeing to the associated terms 
and conditions.
But I would also add, specifically in terms of the investment point, that any flexi drawdown 
fund would be invested in a similar way as the underlying fund which produces the variable 
income facility for Ms T in her existing contracts. And having noted Ms Ts concern at having 
to make investment decisions in the existing contracts, this would be the same for a flexi 
drawdown contract  she would also need to make investment decisions as to how any 
residual pension fund was invested.
If Ms T is unsure as to how she should format the investment element of her annuity 
contracts, I would recommend that she contact Scottish Friendly, who may be able to directly 
help her with an advice function, or may be able to signpost her to an adviser who could 
assist. Failing that, Ms T could seek the assistance of another IFA, and the Financial 
Conduct Authority has a list of registered IFAs who would be local to her. Alternatively, Ms T 
could speak to Pension Wise, which is a free and impartial service dedicated to helping 
people with their pension concerns and queries.
My final decision
As Ive said above, I know this will disappoint Ms T, but on the basis of the available 
evidence I dont think Scottish Friendly has done anything wrong here in declining Ms Ts 
request to transfer her annuity contracts to a flexi drawdown arrangement.
As such, my decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman