DRN-3860933
The complaint
Mr Fs unhappy with how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) settled his claim made 
on a car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Fs car was written off and he made a claim on the policy with AIL to recover his losses. 
AIL considered the claim and offered Mr F £4,450 in settlement of it.
Believing the cars true market value to be £5,300 based on the car adverts hed seen, Mr F 
complained to AIL. AIL maintained that it had acted fairly in making the offer that it had, 
based on the cars market value at the time of the loss as per the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr F remained unhappy and referred a complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They felt AIL had acted 
reasonably in valuing the car as it had in the circumstances.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh. In summary, Mr F remained of the view that the car was worth more than AIL said it 
was. In support, he referred to information provided on our website about our approach to 
complaints about vehicle write-offs and valuations. This, he felt, suggested the car was worth 
what similar cars were being advertised for. He believed he was due £5,300 as opposed to 
the £4,450 AIL had offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Mr Fs car was written off and that, in response, AILs policy explains it 
should pay him the cars market value. Market values defined by the policy as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
AIL says it calculated Mr Fs cars market value based on the car itself and on research from 
motor trade guides. AIL offered Mr F the higher of the valuations it obtained. 
In this case, our investigator also obtained valuations from other motor trade guides to get a 
better picture of market prices overall. From everything Ive seen, AILs valuation of Mr Fs 
car of £4,450 is in line with its market value and, as such, is fair.
Ive thought very carefully about all the points Mr Fs raised, and especially those brought in 
response to the investigators assessment. But I dont think they make a difference to the 
outcome. For example, hes referred to information weve published on our website 
regarding vehicle write-offs and valuations. Specifically, Mr F mentions that our website says 
 more recently, weve been told by some trade guides that generally cars are selling at or 
close to advertised prices. He believes this supports his position.
That said, our website also explains we dont usually place much emphasis on adverts to 
determine whether a valuations fair. Thats because, for instance, were aware that 
differences in mileage or age can significantly affect value. In addition, vehicles will 
sometimes end up selling for a lower price than advertised. 
Our website also says adverts may be helpful in complaints involving classic or rare models 
or if they strongly indicate the trade guides could be wrong. From the available evidence, Im 
not satisfied there are any circumstances in this case to suggest the valuations from the 
motor trade guides obtained might not be reliable.    
Taking everything into account, and while recognising Mr Fs strength of feeling on the 
matter, I believe AILs dealt with his claim fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman