DRN-3386781
The complaint and background
Miss P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt treat her fairly when defaulting her account. 
Miss P first contacted Lloyds to say she was struggling with her account in early 2018, and 
her account was ultimately defaulted in May 2019. Around a month later, in June 2019, 
Lloyds refunded to Miss P the charges that had been incurred on her account since around 
2016 as a gesture of goodwill. Miss P says that if these charges had been refunded earlier 
then she may have been able to avoid the default on her account.
Lloyds looked at Miss Ps complaint, it felt that it had acted reasonably. Miss P remained 
unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ps concerns, she felt that Lloyds hadnt acted 
unfairly in how and when it defaulted Miss Ps account. Miss P disagreed, she maintained 
that she might have been able to repay the debt before it defaulted if the charges had been 
refunded earlier. Miss P also questioned why Lloyds took around a year to default her 
account once it became clear she was struggling financially. 
Because Miss P remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds has acted unfairly here. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
Miss P feels she could have avoided the default on her account if Lloyds had refunded the 
charges to her account earlier. But I dont think that the evidence from that time supports 
what she has said. The refunded amount did reduce the outstanding balance of her account, 
but didnt clear it, she still would have owed a significant amount on the account. And around 
the time of the default Miss P had completed an income and expenditure form for Lloyds 
which showed she had only limited funds to repay the debt. Shed said she could only offer 
around £50 per month at that time, and hadnt indicated that she might have access to other 
funds she could use to repay part of the balance. So I think that the default is an accurate 
representation of Miss Ps financial position regarding this account and I wont be asking 
Lloyds to remove it from Miss Ps credit file.
I note that Miss P has also questioned why it took Lloyds around a year from when she first 
told it of her difficulties to default the account, she says shes seen guidance that accounts 
should be defaulted within 3-6 months. But there is no requirement for a bank to default an 
account within a set period of time. And throughout 2018 Miss P was engaging with Lloyds 
to agree repayment plans to try to reduce her outstanding balance. So in those 
circumstances I think it was fair for Lloyds to give her that breathing space to see if she 
could repay the balance before it began the process of defaulting the account. When it 
became clear in 2019 that Miss P would not be able to increase the amount she was paying, 
and that there was therefore no prospect of her repaying the balance within a reasonable 
period of time, I think it was fair for Lloyds to then decide to default the account.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss P, but Im satisfied that Lloyds has 
treated her fairly here, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman