DRN-3308618
The complaint
Mr W complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC and their decision to issue him with 
replacement credit cards despite him asking for a block to be placed on the accounts to 
prevent him using their limits to fund his gambling addiction.
What happened
Mr W held credit card accounts provided by Tesco. On 28 July 2020, Mr W asked for 
gambling transactions to be blocked on his accounts. Tesco explained they couldnt apply a 
block for specific transactions, but they could block the accounts entirely to prevent any 
further spending. Mr W agreed to this and the accounts were blocked and shortly after, Mr W 
cleared the balance on his cards.
On 21 October, Mr W called Tesco to ask if he was being provided with new cards as there 
were new card numbers showing on his statement. And on this call, Mr W explained hed like 
the cards activated so he could use them for activities such as day to day shopping. Tesco 
agreed to re-issue the cards on the same day.
When Mr W received these cards, he used them to make transactions towards a trading 
account, which Ill refer to as D. Mr W made transactions worth £4,850 which didnt provide 
any returns. So, Mr W was left back in the situation where needed to repay his accounts due 
to his gambling addiction and he was unhappy hed been allowed to do so. So, he raised a 
complaint.
Mr W didnt think Tesco had acted fairly by allowing him to unblock his cards when they were 
aware of his gambling addiction and the block that was in place because of this. He thought 
Tesco shouldve done more to protect him from further spending and so, wanted them to 
refund the payments hed made to D.
Tesco responded and upheld Mr Ws complaint. They agreed they shouldve done more to 
support Mr W when he called them, such as referring him to their customer support team to 
discuss the situation further. They acknowledged they had failed to recognise Mr W was in a 
vulnerable position and had acted unfairly by allowing him to use his available credit for 
further gambling and online trading. So, they refunded all of the interest and charges applied 
to Mr Ws accounts such August 2020. And they froze any further interest and charges while 
Mr W worked with them to repay the remaining balance. They also offered Mr W £150 
compensation to recognise the impact this had on his mental health. Mr W remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She recognised Tesco had 
accepted theyd acted unfairly. But they didnt think the offer Tesco made was fair. They 
thought Tescos error had allowed Mr W to make transactions to D, which had left him with 
an outstanding balance he needed to pay. So, they thought if the error hadnt been made, Mr 
W wouldnt have incurred this debt and because of this, they thought Tesco should refund 
the payments Mr W made to D as well as the offer theyd made in their complaint response. 
Mr W accepted this. But Tesco didnt. They didnt think this recommendation fell in line with 
our services usual approach as Mr W had made use of the credit available to him. They 
explained our service usually states the capital Mr W spent should be repaid but the interest 
and charges should be refunded. And this is what they had done as well as compensating 
Mr W for the upset he was caused. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
As Tesco didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not in dispute that Tesco made an error when they re-issued the cards to Mr W without 
recognising or acting upon the information theyd already been told regarding Mr Ws 
gambling addiction. And Ive listened to the recording of the conversation held between Mr 
W and Tesco on 21 October where Mr W very openly discusses the previous block and the 
reason for this. Mr W also asks on that call if online transactions could be blocked but this 
question wasnt answered, and the cards were re-issued despite this. So, Im satisfied Tesco 
acted both unfairly and unreasonably. As Tescos failures arent in dispute, I dont intend to 
discuss them any further.
Putting things right
Instead, my decision focuses on what I think Tesco should reasonably do to put things right. 
And to determine this, Ive considered the actions Tesco have already taken alongside the 
impact suffered by Mr W and our services approach to complaints where compulsive 
spending and gambling is a factor.
In their complaint response, Tesco agreed to refund the interest and charges applied to Mr 
Ws account, as well as freezing any further interest and charges while Mr W works with their 
customer support team to agree an affordable repayment plan. And they offered Mr W £150 
to recognise their failures had on Mr W and his mental health. So, Ive thought about 
whether this offer is a fair one. And in this situation, I dont think it is.
This is because I think Mr W made Tesco aware in calls held in July, September and in the 
call in October that he was suffering with a gambling addiction. And on each occasion, Mr W 
asked Tesco if it was possible for them to block online transactions on the cards, meaning 
they could only be used for his intended purpose  day to day living expenses such as 
shopping. On the call held in October, Mr W asked this question. And I think the agent failed 
to acknowledge or answer this with a reasonable level of care, considering Mr W had made 
them aware of his gambling addiction earlier in the call. Instead, the agent proceeded to list 
the cards as stolen and arrange for new cards to be issued, without any blocks in place 
whatsoever.
So, I think Mr Ws requests for his cards to be blocked in a way that prevented him from 
gambling online were essentially ignored. Because of this, he was given access to a 
substantial credit limit that he was able to spend investing on trading platforms online despite 
his significant attempts to prevent him from doing so.
I think if Tesco had acted fairly, Mr W wouldnt have been able to access this credit to spend on these trading platforms. And I think the difference between this situation and the services 
usual approach Tesco has referred to, is the openness of Mr W in declaring his gambling 
addiction. I think this openness led to Tesco having a much greater knowledge of the risk 
they were placing Mr W in by issuing the credit cards. So, I think the responsibility Tesco 
have towards the debt Mr W incurred because of this is increased.
Considering this responsibility, and the acceptance from both parties that if Tesco had acted 
fairly the cards wouldnt have been re-issued to Mr W to use, I think on this occasion Tesco 
should refund Mr W all of the payments he made to D from 28 July 2020, when he first made 
them aware of his gambling addiction. If this refund clears his outstanding balance and 
leaves an amount outstanding to Mr W, any payment should include 8% statutory from the 
date the transactions were made to the date of payment.
Id also expect Tesco to compensate Mr W for any trouble and upset hes been caused. And 
I do think this situation wouldve been worrying and upsetting for Mr W as he ended up in a 
situation he took proactive steps to avoid. Mr W has explained this has impacted his mental 
health and I dont doubt this is the case. Tesco have offered Mr W £150 to recognise this 
and I think this offer is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not already 
been made.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC and direct them to take the following action:
Refund Mr W any payments made to D from 28 July 2020;
If this clears Mr Ws outstanding balance and results in a refund being owed to him, 
this should include 8% statutory interest from the date of the transaction to the date 
of payment: and
Pay Mr W £150 to recognise the stress and anxiety hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman