DRN-4403748
The complaint
Mrs G complains because Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) hasnt paid 
her claim under an income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs G is insured under her employers group income protection insurance policy, provided 
by L&G. The policy pays a benefit in certain circumstances if Mrs G is unable to carry out a 
suited occupation for a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
In August 2022, Mrs G was injured and was subsequently unable to work. A claim was made 
under the group insurance policy on behalf of Mrs G later that year. L&G considered the 
available medical evidence and arranged for Mrs G to undergo a telephone assessment with 
a Vocational Clinical Specialist. Having done so, L&G declined the claim as it said the 
evidence showed that Mrs G would be able to perform a suited occupation working from 
home. 
Following an appeal on behalf of Mrs G, L&G considered further medical evidence but 
maintained its position that her claim wasnt covered under the policy. 
Unhappy, Mrs G brought a complaint to the attention of our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened and said she didnt think L&G had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining Mrs Gs claim. 
Mrs G didnt accept our investigators opinion and sent us new medical evidence. Mrs Gs 
complaint has now been referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, say that insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
into account when making my final decision about Mrs Gs complaint. 
When deciding whether I think L&G acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down Mrs 
Gs claim, its not for me to reach my own medical conclusions about Mrs Gs ability to work, 
or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Instead, Ive considered whether I think 
L&G made a fair decision based on the available medical evidence, which Ive reviewed 
independently and impartially. Ive taken into account all the medical information which has 
been provided in connection with this claim  including the new evidence which Mrs G sent 
to us in October 2023, which has since been shared with L&G for its comments as required 
under the rules that govern our services handling of complaints. 
The policy which Mrs G is insured under pays a benefit if Mrs G is incapacitated by an illness 
or injury so that she is unable to undertake a suited occupation. Suited occupation is 
defined to mean all occupations which L&G considers appropriate to Mrs Gs experience, 
training or education. So, in order to be eligible for a claim payment under this policy, Mrs G 
must be unable to carry out not only her own occupation, but any suited occupations too. 
And its for Mrs G to demonstrate that she meets the policy criteria for a valid claim to be 
paid to her. 
Ive considered a report from Mrs Gs Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon dated 13 January 
2023. This says that Mrs G:
 might be able to work from home for part of the week at some point in the next 
few weeks but return to the office might only be possible in 3-6 months 
A report from a Vocational Clinical Specialist dated 19 January 2023 says of Mrs G:
 in my clinical opinion she is fit to work in a suited occupation  she would be able 
to do a sedentary role at home using a computer  
In reaching this conclusion, the Vocational Clinical Specialist considered the details of Mrs 
Gs role as well as her previous occupations.
I think this medical evidence suggests that Mrs G wasnt incapacitated from performing a 
suited occupation for the entirety of the policys deferred period. So, Im satisfied that it was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for L&G to rely on this medical evidence to 
conclude that Mrs Gs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of this policy. 
Ive taken into account a letter from Mrs Gs Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon dated 21 
February 2023. While this letter comments on Mrs Gs inability to get to work  and says that 
trying to set a timeframe for her ability to return was not appropriate or realistic  the letter 
doesnt mention Mrs Gs ability to perform her own or a suited occupation from home. So, I 
dont think this is persuasive medical evidence in support of Mrs Gs claim. 
Ive also had regard to a report from an Occupational Health Physician dated 3 May 2023, 
which says that Mrs G is unfit for work. The report goes on to say:
 whilst in theory some work from home role may be possible  as it would 
eliminate the strain of the commute and the more physically demanding nature of 
branch based work, however, her personality type is such that a work from home role 
does not appeal to her at all and it is not something that she would be likely to 
tolerate psychologically it is evident that a work from home role will very likely not 
be feasible. I would recommend though discussing this directly with her given a 
return to the branch is still at least six months away.
The contents of this report are limited to commenting on Mrs Gs ability to perform her own 
occupation, rather than any suited occupations. So, I dont think this report is persuasive 
medical evidence in support of Mrs Gs claim either. 
I understand Mrs G says she has never worked from home, that Mrs G may not wish to work 
from home and that a main feature of her occupation prior to her incapacity was dealing with 
customers in a face-to-face setting. But L&G says it considers that Mrs G would be able to 
work from home in a suited role  such as an admin role or call centre role  based on Mrs 
Gs transferrable skills. Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for 
L&G to conclude that Mrs G could carry out an occupation suited to her experience from 
home. Any training, reasonable adjustments or equipment which Mrs G requires to support 
this would be for her to explore with any potential employer. The fact that Mrs G says that up until the outbreak of Covid-19, working from home wasnt an option in most occupations isnt 
relevant to whether I think Mrs G meets the criteria for a claim to be paid to her in 2023. The 
test is whether Mrs G is incapacitated to the extent that she cannot carry out a suited 
occupation, not whether Mrs G wishes to carry out a suited occupation. 
While I appreciate Mrs G says she has statements of fitness to work from her GP, I 
wouldnt usually consider that statements based on self-reported symptoms are sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that a policyholder cannot carry out their own, or any suited, 
occupation. The threshold for a GP to issue such statements is not necessarily the same as 
the policy criteria for a claim to be paid.
Overall, I dont think Mrs G has provided medical evidence to show that she is incapacitated 
from working in a suited occupation. This means Mrs G doesnt meet the criteria for a claim 
to be paid to her under this policy. 
I understand Mrs G says L&G never telephoned her to discuss her claim or corresponded 
directly with her about the claim  but, Mrs G isnt the policyholder, her employer is. So, I 
wouldnt necessarily have expected L&G to communicate directly with Mrs G. L&G arranged 
for a Vocational Clinical Specialist report to be carried out, which I think was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think L&G needed to arrange for an Occupational 
Health report  this was for Mrs G and/or her employer to organise and provide, as 
subsequently happened. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G but I dont think L&G has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
declining her claim and I wont be directing L&G to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman