DRN-1578229
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax changed his address details 
without his permission.
What happened
Mr M told us that he has a joint account with a family member, who doesnt share an 
address with him. That family member moved, and updated their address details with 
Halifax. Halifax changed Mr Ms address too, and not just on the joint account but on all his 
accounts, including accounts linked to Halifax but not held there. 
Mr M said he had to ring Halifax three times to get this changed back. Before it was 
changed, he couldnt carry out card transactions that required him to confirm his address. He 
said that Halifax apologised, amended his credit history to make sure this change of address 
didnt show on his credit file, and paid £300. He said Halifax also told him it had solved the 
problem, but then he and his wife moved house. When she updated her address, which also 
appears on a joint account he holds with her, Halifax changed his address on all of his 
accounts again, without his express permission. 
Mr M is very concerned that Halifax is still making this mistake, and he wants it to be 
stopped. 
Halifax said it couldnt tell whether this was a human error, or a system issue. But it accepted 
it had made a mistake, and said sorry. It said it had asked its IT team to look into this. Its 
internal notes say that it has a moving with option, which means that an address change by 
an account holder would change the address for any joint account holder too, and it thinks 
this is likely to be what went wrong. But it cant be sure.
Halifax said it hadnt looked yet at what happened when Mr Ms wife updated her address, 
and his was updated at the same time. It wanted to consider that before our service looked 
into it, so that wasnt dealt with as part of this complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it was clear Halifax had 
made a mistake, but he thought that what it had offered was fair, so he wouldnt recommend 
it did anything further. 
Mr M didnt accept that our service had exercised its power as an ombudsman. He said the 
mistake Halifax made was exceptionally serious. It said it was corrected, but then it 
happened again. Mr M said we needed to warn the general public, and to consider how this 
could affect other people. He said that lives could be at risk if addresses were wrongly 
shared.
Our investigator said that we couldnt do what Mr M wanted, that isnt our role. But Mr M said 
we should act, and while we were allowing Halifax to make this mistake and it only cost £300 
to fob customers off, things wouldnt change. He said this was an opportunity for our 
organisation to make a statement to the industry, say that not keeping data secure was 
totally unacceptable and recommend that compensation should be more substantial. 
Mr M wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr M stresses that this mistake has happened twice. Our service is looking here at the 
complaint he made to Halifax, about the first address change. Halifax hasnt had a chance to 
consider a complaint about the second address change, so our service cant consider that 
here. 
Mr M says that Halifax shouldnt be allowed to make this mistake, and he wants it to be 
stopped or punished. I understand why Mr M feels so strongly about this, and in particular, 
the points he makes about how the same problem could affect other people in different 
circumstances. But our service just doesnt have the power to do either of the things that he 
wants. We look at individual cases, and try to provide a fair and reasonable outcome in each 
case. We cant order Halifax to make sure this never happens again. And we arent able to 
increase compensation to Mr M in order to make sure the amount is enough to punish 
Halifax or deter it from doing this again, or because the consequences in another case 
couldve been much more serious. 
But that doesnt mean that theres no way for Mr M to raise his concerns about Halifax. Our 
investigator explained that banks are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, and that 
data protection issues in particular are dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). Both of those organisations have powers which allow them to look more widely than 
our service. I understand Mr M has already raised this issue with the ICO. 
My job here is to assess the impact of this complaint on Mr M, and consider whether what 
Halifax has done is enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint about 
the first time his address was changed. And I think it has. What Halifax has offered Mr M is 
certainly no less than our service would have awarded. That means I cant ask Halifax to do 
any more in this case. And, as Ive explained, my powers are limited to only looking at this 
case. For that reason, although I know Mr M will be disappointed, his complaint with our 
service wont be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman