DRN-3848025
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a LifeChoices UnemploymentChoice 
(LCUC) income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2009, Mr B met with HSBCs adviser and during the meeting, Mr Bs protection needs 
were discussed. Amongst other recommendations, the adviser recommended that Mr B 
should take out the LCUC policy to protect his income in the event of redundancy or if Mr B 
became a carer. They recommended that Mr B should take cover which provided a monthly 
benefit of £1667, over a term of 21 years.  Mr B opted to take out a LCUC policy, with a 21-
year term, albeit he decided to take a monthly benefit of £1000  against the advisers 
recommendation. The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call A.
Subsequently, in 2022, A decided to withdraw LCUC cover and so HSBC let Mr B know that 
the policy would be cancelled.
Mr B considered that HSBC had mis-sold the policy to him. In brief, he felt that he had been 
sold a policy which was meant to provide cover for 21 years. The policy term had been very 
important to him, given the impact of the financial crash in 2008. He said that if hed known 
the policy could be cancelled by the insurer, he wouldnt have taken it out at all and wouldve 
saved money instead.
HSBC didnt agree that it had mis-sold the policy to Mr B and so he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He considered that the 
policy terms and conditions, which HSBC had given Mr B, clearly set out As right to 
withdraw cover. And he didnt think that at the point of sale, HSBC could reasonably have 
foreseen that A would decide to withdraw cover 13 years later.
Mr B disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He said his need had been for 
unemployment cover for a 21-year period. But the LCUC policy didnt meet this need and 
was therefore unsuitable for him. He didnt think the cancellation terms had been highlighted 
to him. And he maintained that if HSBC had explained the risk of the policy being cancelled 
during the lifetime of the contract, he wouldnt have taken it out. Mr B didnt think it was fair 
to rely on HSBCs inability to foresee As decision to withdraw cover as a reason not to 
uphold his complaint. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I dont think that HSBC has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
In my view, HSBC advised Mr B to take out the policy to protect against unemployment. 
While Mr B may have chosen not to entirely follow the advisers advice by opting for a lower 
monthly benefit than the adviser had recommended, I still think that, overall, he was advised 
to take out LCUC cover. This means that HSBC needed to check that the policy was suitable 
for Mr B. And it also needed to give him enough clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy so that he could make an informed choice about whether to enter into the 
insurance contract with A.
Ive looked carefully at the financial planning report which the adviser completed and Ive 
thought about what Mr Bs told us about what happened at the point of sale. The report 
states that Mr B didnt have existing unemployment protection and this point seems to be 
corroborated by Mr Bs testimony. So it seems to me that Mr B both wanted and had a need 
for the cover he was recommended. On that basis, I find the advice to take out LCUC cover 
was suitable.
It's common ground that the adviser recommended that Mr B should take out the cover for a 
21-year term. And its clear that Mr B wanted a policy which would last for this duration. Its 
unfortunate that A decided to withdraw cover and that Mr B is now unable to find a 
replacement policy. But I dont think that As decision, 13 years after the policy was sold, 
made HSBCs advice unsuitable. I say that because, at the time of the sale, the adviser 
recommended a policy based on Mr Bs identified needs. The insurance contract between 
Mr B and A does include a term setting out As (and indeed, Mr Bs) cancellation rights. But 
while the policy is HSBC-branded, A is responsible for the contract terms. And I dont think 
that at the time of sale, the adviser could or ought reasonably to have known that A would 
likely decide to withdraw cover in the future. Based on the information available to the 
adviser at the time of the sale, I think they made a suitable recommendation.
HSBC had a responsibility to highlight the key terms and limitations of the policy to Mr B at 
the point of sale. I accept that the insurers potential cancellation rights may not have been 
discussed during the meeting. But in my view, the possibility that an insurer may choose to 
withdraw from the market at some point in the future isnt a key term which needed to be 
specifically drawn to Mr Bs attention. So I dont think HSBCs adviser made any material 
failing here. 
Additionally, it appears that HSBC met its obligation to provide Mr B with a copy of As 
contract terms. The cancellation rights were set out in the contract. And the policy terms also 
made it clear that if Mr B could cancel the policy without charge within a 30-day cooling-off 
period. So if Mr B had been unhappy with As right to cancel the policy, he had had 30-days 
in which to cancel the contract and receive a full premium refund.
It's also clear that whilst Mr B may not have been covered for the full term hed initially 
intended, he did have the benefit of unemployment cover hed wanted for a 13-year period. 
And so I dont think I could fairly or reasonably direct HSBC to pay compensation to value of 
the premiums hed paid to A during the period of cover. 
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Bs position, as I appreciate hes been left without 
unemployment cover during a time of economic uncertainty, I dont find that HSBC mis-sold 
the LCUC cover to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman