DRN-2795113
The complaint
Mr G complains that he has lost out financially because The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) gave his adviser incorrect information when he 
was considering switching pension funds. Mr G wanted to switch his investments in his 
defined contribution scheme into cash, to avoid volatility in the stock market. Mr G says that 
had Royal London provided the correct information, he would not have switched funds.
What happened
On 18 March 2020, concerned about the impact of stock market volatility on his drawdown 
pension, Mr G instructed his adviser to temporarily suspend drawdown payments from his 
pension. He also asked that all existing managed fund holdings were sold and the sale 
proceeds switched to a cash deposit fund.
This instruction was given over the phone on 18 March 2020 (call 1). The adviser was 
informed that the transaction would take up to 10 working days, but the sale price of his 
existing fund holdings would be taken as at that days date (being £189,151.16). This was 
incorrect.
Later that same day, on 18 March 2020 (call 2), Mr Gs adviser telephoned again, this time 
to confirm the process for re- investment. The correct information was provided about how 
the fund would be priced. On this call it was explained that re- investment would be subject 
to a two day forward-pricing rule. This is referred to as T+2.
The next day (19 March 2020) (call 3), Mr Gs adviser phoned Royal London again to 
clarify the settlement process for the switch instruction. He was again given the same 
misleading information as per call 1 on 18 March 2020 about pricing.
The instruction to sell Mr Gs existing fund holdings was carried out using Royal Londons 
correct process, which was different to what Royal London had told Mr Gs adviser during 
calls1 and 3. The correct information was given during call 2. 
Whilst the transaction is treated as having been made on the date of request, Royal 
London apply a T+2 rule, so the price actually used was that at the market close on the day 
following the request (19 March 2020), which was the price shown on their system on 20 
March 2020. Mr Gs fund value had fallen to £182,702.03 calculated on a T+2 basis.
Royal London accepts that the information it gave Mr Gs adviser during calls 1 and 3 
was incorrect. It offered Mr G £1,000 for the inconvenience caused by these errors. It 
does not accept that Mr G has lost out financially, as it thinks Mr G wouldve proceeded 
with the switch even if he had been given the correct information. 
Mr G says that he has lost out because he was given incorrect information on pricing, 
and he wouldnt have switched if he had been given correct information. Mr G wants 
Royal London to pay him the difference between the switch values mentioned during 
calls 1 and 3 and what he actually received, when the switch was made, the difference 
being around £7,000.
As agreement couldnt be reached between Royal London and Mr G, Mr G referred his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and concluded that Royal 
London didnt need to do anything more as its offer of compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. He took the view that Mr Gs adviser had been given 
incorrect information, but that Mr G wouldve probably gone ahead with the switch even 
had he been given the correct information on pricing.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view, so his complaint comes to me for a view.
Mr G said, in summary:
we have concluded that Royal London, a multi-national company, can give incorrect 
information out on two occasions and yet there should be no penalty for this.
he is being treated as a liar as his word is not accepted about what he would have 
done differently.
we are ignoring the fact that there were three phone calls and during two of these 
Royal London provided misleading information. His decision was made based on 
what he was told on 18 March 2020 and the wheels were then put in motion as a 
result of that first call. The fact that during two of these calls incorrect information was 
provided suggests a systemic failure.
the investigator has inappropriately assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk by second 
guessing what he would have done had correct information been provided. Mr G said 
who knows what actions would have been taken with hindsight. He didnt consider it 
fair that the investigator was pressing him for a view on what he would have done, 
with hindsight.
he couldnt have been expected to know what T+2 meant, that is why the phone call 
was made to Royal London for pricing information.
he had decided that £190,000 was his critical mass figure, which was at the heart of 
his decision making. He was told his fund value was around £189,000 on 18 March 
2020. He had come up with this figure based on the number of years between his 
age and the average life expectancy of a UK male, basing the numbers on what he 
believed he would need as a minimum income going forward. He also told the 
investigator he expected the stock market to bounce back, but that he wanted to 
protect the £189,000 to give himself the best chance of recovery when the markets 
turned. He said had the investigator taken time to explore Mr Gs reaction to similar 
large downward fluctuations in the stock market in 2003, 2009, 2011, 2015, he would 
have seen that on previous occasions he had not made a dash for cash.
he accepts that Royal London cant be held responsible for market fluctuations, but 
this is a financial business and it should be held accountable. 
he questions whether it was worth bringing the complaint as he and his advisers 
accounts of the situation have been swept under the carpet.
implied in every contract is a term that requires both parties to avoid behaving in 
such a way as to destroy the relationship of trust and confidence that should exist 
between them. His trust and confidence has been lost in Royal London and this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Its not in dispute that on the 18 March 2020, Mr Gs adviser was given erroneous information by 
Royal London about how the value of his fund would be assessed. This mis-information was repeated 
again, the next day on 19 March 2020. In between times, accurate information was provided, but its 
understandable that Mr G and his adviser couldve been unclear about which pricing approach would 
be used given the conflicting information provided. Mr G communicated his decision to switch on 18 
March 2020, so for the purposes of reliance being placed on the information provided calls 1 and 2 
are more relevant than call 3 here.
I think it worth clarifying here what the Financial Ombudsman Services remit is when dealing with 
complaints. Our role is not to punish a business for what it has done wrong, or to direct a business to 
address any systemic failures that might have been identified. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA), the regulator. We deal with cases on their individual merits and circumstances.
When a business has done something wrong, as it has here, we look to put the consumer back in the 
same situation that they wouldve been, but for the wrong doing. We can require a business to pay a 
consumer compensation for their non-financial loss (their trouble and upset) and their financial loss. 
In Mr Gs case the investigator has concluded that it is fair and reasonable for Royal London to pay Mr 
G for his non-financial loss, that is for the trouble and inconvenience Mr G has suffered as a result of 
the mis-information. Royal London had offered to pay Mr G £1,000. Our investigator found that a fair 
and reasonable response in the circumstances.
Our investigator concluded that, most likely, Mr G had not suffered any financial loss - because even if 
he had been given accurate information about pricing from the outset, he wouldve still proceeded in 
the way he did. And that as Royal London cant fairly be held responsible for market fluctuations, the 
differences in values between the value of his policy on the 18 March and T+2, was not something 
that Royal London was in control of.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
As Mr G fairly said, he doesnt know what he would have done if he had been given correct 
information, My role is to assess what, more likely than not, he wouldve done, and decide as a result 
whether he has suffered any financial loss.
Royal London state that the switch was carried out in accordance with industry standard 
T+2 arrangements, where the unit price used for the switch will be the closing price on 
the day following the members instruction. Whilst Mr G may not have understood what 
this meant, likely his adviser would have, as this was standard practice.
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Gs contract with Royal London, the process 
for switching was set out in there. It specifically explained what it was at paragraphs 
15.1 and 15.3: I recognise that Mr Gs adviser was given conflicting information by Royal 
London about how things worked, which was wrong, but the written terms and 
conditions were also available to the adviser for clarification and information purposes.
The terms and conditions said this:
15.1 Switching funds  general
we will then determine your switch date. This will be the business day after we receive the 
necessary written instructions
15.3 Unit price
For unit-linked funds we will carry out switches using the unit price that we calculate on the
switch date
This wording is clear that the unit price will be taken as the closing price on the day after the instruction, which in effect means that where an instruction is given on a Monday, it 
will be settled on the Wednesday, using closing prices for the Tuesday. This is what is 
meant by T+2. 
Whilst Mr Gs adviser was given wrong information during calls 1 and 3, the terms and 
conditions were complied with in terms of how the switch would work. So, the instruction 
itself has been carried out correctly in accordance with those rules, even though Mr G 
was told the wrong thing about the process.
The correct information was given during call 2. 
As I say, I consider that calls 1 and 2 are the most relevant here, as Mr G gave his 
instruction to switch on 18 March 2020. I have taken into account that he was given 
wrong information again in call 3, but by then Mr G had already decided to switch. 
Having concluded that Royal London did something wrong (its miscommunication), I will 
now go on to consider whether Mr G has suffered any loss arising from this.
Non-financial loss
Its clear that Mr G has been caused some trouble and upset by Royal Londons actions. 
This is not being overlooked. However, I think Royal Londons offer of £1,000 to 
compensate him for this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and consistent with 
other awards made by this service.
Financial loss
Turning to the question of whether or not Mr G would have taken a different course of 
action had his adviser been given correct information over the phone by Royal London. 
Here, as Ive said, I must consider the wider circumstances and decide what, Mr G, 
more likely than not would have done if he had been provided with the right information 
via his adviser following these calls.
I am sorry that Mr G feels that our investigator has not accepted his word. It seems to 
me that our investigators questions were aimed at establishing what, more likely than 
not, Mr G would have done in circumstances where he had been given correct 
information during the two calls on the day he instructed Royal London to switch his 
funds (18 March 2020). Also, Mr G fairly said he didnt know what he would have done. 
So, to resolve this complaint I must reach my own conclusions about this.
This was mid-March 2020, days after the Prime Minister had announced that all non- 
essential travel and contact should cease. On 23 March 2020 the Prime Minister 
announced the first national lockdown. Mr Gs advisers calls to Royal London were made 
within this period. The full impact of COVID 19 was unknown, save that infection rates and 
deaths were rising exponentially. Mr G said he was motivated to switch into cash by a 
pressing need to de- risk his pension investments, in order to reduce the potential impact 
of stock market volatility on his pension fund.
Ive heard what Mr G has said about having a critical mass figure of £190,000 and I note 
that when he decided to switch he believed his fund was priced marginally below that. The 
way the T+2 system operated (which was how Mr Gs plan worked, so not capable of
being changed) meant that even if he had been given correct information about switching, 
at the point he instructed Royal London to switch, he wouldnt have known what the end 
value would end up being. That would be determined by reference to pricing figures from 
the following day. So, if Mr G wanted to de-risk he wouldve had to accept that at the point 
he gave the instruction to switch, he wouldnt have known what the end value would be.
So, Mr G wouldnt have known that by the next day, his fund value had gone down by around £7,000. He would have had to make an educated assessment as to what the 
markets were likely to do. I think Mr G made that educated assessment at the point he made 
the decision to de-risk on 18 March 2020 concerned about market volatility, and that he 
wouldve made that decision whether he was given the correct information about how T+2 
worked, or not.
Mr G said that he was unsure whether he would have still proceeded had he been aware of 
the T+2 settlement procedure, as the value of his pension fund had already fallen below 
£190,000. But, balanced against that, Mr G appeared to want to de-risk his fund urgently. 
Given the unprecedented nature of world events and what was materialising, I dont feel 
able to reliably draw any analogies from how Mr G responded to other stock market 
volatility at earlier times.
Ive also taken into account, that in spite of being provided with conflicting information on 18 
March 2020 about how his fund would be valued, Mr G didnt seek to put a stop on his 
decision to switch. This suggests to me that de-risking his fund weighed more heavily in his 
decision than establishing how the fund would be priced because hed been told different 
things about this.
Mr G has sent in a copy of an email that he sent his adviser in 2 April 2020, where he 
states that at a switch value of £182,702 he would have weathered the storm and left 
things as they were. Like our investigator, as I see it, this comment was likely made with a 
degree of hindsight. 
I think more likely than not having taken the decision to de-risk, and there not being any 
certainty around what his fund would be worth based on T+2, Mr G would still have likely 
proceeded with the transaction in order to preserve what he had. These were particularly 
uncertain times, right at the start of the impact of the pandemic unfolding, and no one could 
predict how far the markets were going to fall and its effect on financial markets. 
Ive thought about whether knowing about the T+2 arrangement would of itself put Mr G off 
making the switch. But, I cant see that it would have. This was industry standard 
procedure, so if Mr G wanted to switch funds, inevitably he was going to be subject to an 
arrangement like this at some point in time and it seemed his pressing need was to 
preserve the value of his fund overall, by taking immediate action. 
Mr G accepts that Royal London cannot be held accountable for the fluctuation in the value 
of his investments between the date he requested the transaction and the date it was 
treated as switched in line with the rules. 
I sympathise with the situation that Mr G finds himself in, and the fact that he is left not 
knowing exactly what he wouldve done had he been provided with correct information. 
However, based on what Ive seen and heard, I cant fairly find that Mr G has suffered 
financial loss as a direct result of the misinformation he was given during call 1 (repeated in 
call 3 after his decision to switch was made). I think he would have gone ahead with the 
switch even if given the right information, and disappointingly would have had to accept 
that his fund value had gone down by £7.000 in a day.
So, it follows that I do not make any award for financial loss.
My final decision
Royal London should now pay Mr G £1000 for his trouble and upset, if Mr G wants to accept 
this.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman