DRN-2712703
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society allowed him to take out a loan when he
was suffering with mental health issues.  
What happened
In August 2018 Mr A contacted Nationwide by telephone to enquire about a personal loan.
The loan was for £15,000 and Mr A said that he wanted the money to help him buy a car. Mr
A successfully applied for the loan and subsequently received the loan amount.
In November 2019 Mr A contacted Nationwide and told them that hed been suffering from
mental health issues at the time that he had taken out the loan, and that these mental health
issues had subsequently grown worse. Mr A provided a letter from his doctor to confirm this.
Mr A asked Nationwide to write off the loan as he thought they shouldnt have lent the
money to him and hadnt conducted sufficient checks before approving his loan application.
Nationwide responded to Mr A and said that, because Mr A hadnt made them aware of his
mental health issues at the time of the application, they didnt feel that they had acted
inappropriately in offering him the loan, especially as the checks which they had undertaken
as part of the application process had shown that the loan was affordable for Mr A at that
time. So, they didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A wasnt happy with Nationwides response and so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this case. They thought that the evidence
provided by Mr A, including the letter from his doctor, confirmed that Mr A had been suffering
with mental health issues at the time that the loan was taken out, and so they recommended
that Nationwide stop all interest and charges on the loan and refund all interest and charges
already paid by Mr A on the loan backdated to the start date of the loan. Our investigator
also recommended that Nationwide agree an affordable payment plan with Mr A on the
amount borrowed based on income and expenditure information to be supplied by Mr A.
Nationwide didnt agree with the recommendations put forward by our investigator. They
maintained that they hadnt been made aware of Mr As mental health issues at the time of
the application and that there was nothing in Mr As behaviour at the time of the application
that caused them to question the status of Mr As mental health.
So, Nationwide said that while they were happy to arrange an affordable payment plan and
stop interest and charges from the time hat they were first informed by Mr A that he was
suffering from mental health issues, they didnt feel that it was appropriate that they be
asked to backdate the refund of interest and charges to the start date of the loan. Nationwide
also said that a default should be recorded against Mr As credit file to confirm that he hadnt
been able to meet the original loan agreement and to protect him from being able to readily
obtain more credit while his mental health issues continued.
Because no agreement could be reached on how this matter should be resolved, the
complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 February as follows:
I feel that its best here to first highlight the aspects of this complaint, and the
resolution of it, that are not in dispute and which are accepted by all parties. For 
instance, Nationwide acknowledge that Mr A is suffering from mental health issues, 
and agree that a continuation of the original terms of the loan agreement might not 
be appropriate and that a new course of action may be required to fairly resolve the 
matter of the outstanding loan balance still owed by Mr A.
Where Mr A and Nationwide disagree is what form this new course of action should 
take, and I note that in Mr As complaint to Nationwide he requested that the loan be 
written off and that this should have no impact on his credit file. However, where a 
customer borrows money from a business, its nearly always going to be the case 
that its fair that the customer should pay this back, and I think thats the case here. 
Mr A has had the benefit of the money that he borrowed from Nationwide, and so Im 
in agreement with our investigator that Nationwide should be entitled to recover the 
money it lent here and that it wouldnt be fair to ask Nationwide to write off the 
balance in this instance.
I understand that Mr A believes that Nationwide should never have leant him this 
money, and our investigator has recommended that Nationwide should reimburse Mr 
A all the interest and charges accrued on the account from the start of the loan  a 
recommendation which Nationwide disagree with.
Ive reviewed the information provided by Mr A when applying for the loan, and Ive 
listened to a recording of the telephone call between Mr A and Nationwide where Mr 
A applied for loan. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr A didnt advise Nationwide at 
that time that he was suffering with mental health issues, and also that there was 
nothing in the nature of the telephone call that would give Nationwides advisor any 
cause for concern that Mr A might suffer with mental health issues at that time. Im 
also satisfied that Nationwide conducted sufficient checks into Mr As financial 
circumstances at that time, and I note that Nationwides advisor spent considerable 
time confirming with Mr A that the loan was affordable for him at that time.
So, I dont feel that it is fair to ask Nationwide to backdate reimbursements of interest 
and charges already paid by Mr A back to the start of the loan. I say this because 
Nationwide made the loan offer in good faith and cant reasonably be held 
accountable for not acting on information it didnt at that time possess.
In their correspondence with this service, Nationwide have confirmed that they would 
be willing to refund all interest and charges incurred on the loan from 11 November 
2019  the point at which they first became aware of Mr As financial difficulty and 
mental health issues. Nationwide have also advised that they would freeze any 
further interest on the loan for the remainder of the term, as well as arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr A for the outstanding balance on the loan based 
on Mr As current income and expenditure information.
This feels reasonable to me and is in line with what this service would expect of a 
business when it learns that a customer is experiencing financial difficulty and/or 
mental health issues  i.e. taking positive and sympathetic action to ensure that a customer experiencing difficult circumstances can repay the money they owe at a 
rate thats affordable for them.
Nationwide have also stated that if they were to arrange a new repayment plan with 
Mr A, then they would apply a default to Mr As credit file, backdated to 11 November 
2019. Defaults can be an emotive issue, and I understand that Mr A might want to 
avoid such a consequence. However, lenders have a responsibility to make accurate 
reports to credit reference agencies, and while I can sympathise with Mr As 
circumstances here, it would be accurate that he wouldnt be able to meet the 
contractual terms of the loan agreement. So, I feel that it is fair that a backdated 
default should be recorded on Mr As credit file, as Nationwide suggest.
I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr A wanted. However, given that
Nationwide werent made aware of the issues that Mr A was experiencing at the time 
of the loan application, I cant conclude that the loan offer made by Nationwide to Mr 
A wasnt a fair one. This means that the loan agreement is a valid one.
I can understand why Mr A might not be able to continue to meet the loan 
agreement, given his circumstances, and it is appropriate that Nationwide take those 
circumstances into account and allow Mr A to make alternative payment 
arrangements, in line with what he can currently afford. But it doesnt follow from this 
that Mr A being unable to meet the original contractual terms of the loan shouldnt be 
accurately recorded on his credit file.
All of which means that I think that the course of action proposed by Nationwide here 
is a fair and reasonable one, and I will be provisionally upholding this complaint on 
that basis.
Both Mr A and Nationwide were invited to respond to my provisional decision letter and 
provide any comments or further information that they wished me to consider. Nationwide 
confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision. Mr A did not respond.
It follows that I see no reason not to uphold this complaint on the basis outlined in my 
provisional decision, and so I will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
  
Putting things right
Nationwide must refund all interest and charges incurred on the loan from 11 November 
2019 onwards, and must freeze any further interest on the loan for the remainder of the loan.
Nationwide must also contact Mr A to arrange a payment plan with him to clear the amended 
outstanding balance that is suitable for Mr A dependent on his current financial 
circumstances.
If Mr A doesnt make a payment to bring the account back within the contractual terms of the 
account and enters into a payment plan with Nationwide, as per the above, within 28 days of 
the date of this letter, then Nationwide must record a default on Mr As credit file backdated 
to 11 November 2019.
If Mr A doesnt make a payment plan to bring the account back within the contractual terms 
of the account but doesnt enter into a repayment plan with Nationwide within 28 days of the 
date of this letter, then Nationwide can choose to follow their normal collections procedures 
while being mindful of Mr As circumstances.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis that I have explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman