DRN-3099646
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a personal contract purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr E. The car here was about 
three and a half years old and had already completed about 19,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect a limited amount of wear and tear. But I dont think the 
faults on this car were related to wear and tear.
There have been several independent inspections completed on this vehicle and I think its 
fair to say they are in agreement that a poorly fitted, salvaged engine had been fitted to this 
car. Im persuaded that there were faults with the fitting of the engine as the repairs 
completed show an Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) solenoid had been incorrectly fitted; 
wiring was loose and retaining clips were missing from the coolant system. 
Whilst the other inspectors suggested the salvaged engine was likely to have been fitted at 
some point before Mr E took receipt of the car, the inspector who looked at the car in May 
2021 didnt go that far. He said it wasnt possible to gauge when the engine was replaced 
and for that reason MotoNovo are saying theyre not responsible for putting things right for 
Mr E as theyre only responsible for the quality of the car when its supplied.
Im persuaded its more likely than not that the salvaged engine was replaced in the car 
before Mr E took receipt of it because:
If there were faults with the car that were so significant that an engine needed 
replacing, I think Mr E would have been likely to have let the supplying dealership 
know. I say that because:
oMr E had previously taken the car back to that dealership and MotoNovos 
system notes show that the dealership explained Mr E used them a lot. So, it 
seems natural thats where he would have reported any faults;
oMr E took the car to the dealership for a service a few weeks before he 
started to report issues with it. I think its likely the dealership would have 
noted the engine had been replaced at that point especially as its clear it had 
been poorly fitted;
oIt seems unlikely that a new engine would have been fitted in the couple of 
weeks that elapsed between the service and Mr E reporting problems.
Mr Es testimony has been reliable and consistent. He says he was told by the 
dealership that a salvaged engine had been fitted to the car before he took receipt of 
it and I think that seems likely.
So, I think there were problems with this car as a result of a poorly fitted, salvaged engine 
that was present when Mr E took receipt of the vehicle. I therefore think it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that point. The business have tried and failed to repair the car and 
MotoNovo should therefore now allow Mr E to reject it.
Putting things right
MotoNovo will need to end the finance agreement and collect the car from Mr E.
They should refund the deposit/part exchange Mr E contributed and theyll need to add 
interest to that refund.
Mr E had to pay to have work done to the car. An Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve 
solenoid had been wrongly fitted. Auto electricians also explained a head gasket failed 
because of a broken water pump and that this led to a hose, that had not been secured 
when the engine was replaced, blowing. The engine therefore overheated. Im persuaded 
this work would not have been necessary if it wasnt for the mistakes made when the 
salvaged engine was fitted. So, I think its fair for MotoNovo to refund the charges Mr E 
incurred to complete these repairs (£2465.64). Theyll also need to add interest to this refund 
as Mr E has been deprived of the money.
Whilst Mr E has had reasonable use of the car and should pay for that use, he wasnt able to 
use it without significant issues in December 2019 and January 2020. Im therefore asking 
MotoNovo to refund the two finance instalments he paid with interest.
Mr E has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to have the car repaired on 
several occasions and has had to call out breakdown services. Hes also had to escalate his 
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In the 
circumstances I think MotoNovo should pay him £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.   My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr E;
refund the deposit/part exchange that Mr E contributed adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund the finance instalments Mr E paid in December 2019 and January 2020 in 
respect of lack of use and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund the cost of repairs Mr E has incurred and evidenced. I calculate that as 
£2,465.64. add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
pay Mr E £150 to compensate him for the distress, inconvenience and lack of 
enjoyment hes experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Es credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman