DRN-2868552
The complaint
Mr S and Miss G complain that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt accepted their home
insurance claim for damage caused by an escape of water from a drainage pipe located
beneath their property.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr S and Miss G discovered water pooling in the void under the floorboards in
dining room of their home. After initially contacting their local water company in an attempt to
have the issue remedied, Mr S and Miss G made a claim under their home insurance policy
in September 2019. The water company had been able to trace the issue to a leaking
underground clay pipe beneath the dining room floor and had carried out extensive remedial
works on their network which reduced both the smell and the volume of water escaping into
Mr S and Miss Gs home. Unfortunately the water company was unable to fully resolve the
issue. It also said it didnt own the pipe nor could it be sure of the pipes purpose.
Two visits were undertaken by Avivas drainage contractor on two successive days in mid-
September 2019. In its report to Aviva it said there was no identifiable leak to the water
supply pipe. It also said that the excavation under the dining room floorboards was full of
water. It pumped out the water and found a small clay drain (2in diameter) but the
excavation continued to fill with water. Avivas contractor said that the drain wasnt taking
any services from the home and that it suspected it was an existing land drain which passed
under the properties which had become blocked or damaged.
The contractor said there was no policy cover for land drains that didnt serve or benefit the
buildings. As it hadnt been able to identify the policy peril the damage fell under, the
contractor referred the claim back to Aviva to validate.
Before the end of September, Aviva told Mr S and Miss G that it wouldnt be accepting their
claim. Mr S said he wanted to know why and he said that they didnt accept Avivas decision.
Aviva said it would make enquiries and let him know. In January 2020, Mr S called Aviva
because hed not heard anything. Aviva told Mr S that the claim was declined because the
policy only provided trace and access and repair cover for pipes which serviced the home,
which there was no evidence the pipe in question did. And Aviva said there was no evidence
of any escape of water damage to the home either.
Mr S and Miss G said they wanted to see the reports Aviva was basing its decision on. On
reviewing the reports, Mr S and Miss G said Aviva had based its opinion on an assumption
and that there was no evidence that the pipe was a land drain.
Aviva set up a complaint for Mr S and Miss G and issued its final response letter in
September 2020. It said that the drain wasnt servicing their home so there was no cover for
tracing and accessing the pipe nor was there any evidence of water damage that would
mean it could consider the claim under the escape of water peril. So it said its decision to
decline the claim had been correct.
Unhappy with the outcome of Avivas investigation, Mr S and Miss G complained to this
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint and recommended that it was upheld.
He said that having reviewed the policy terms he was of the view the claim was covered. He
also said that Aviva appeared to be declining the claim by relying on the wrong section of the
policy terms. Our investigator recommended that Aviva reassess the claim in line with the
remaining policy terms. If the claim was then accepted, and Mr S and Miss G were able to
show evidence of costs they had incurred in association with it, then Aviva would need to
reimburse them and pay them interest at our usual rate of 8% simple per year.
Aviva replied to say that it thought its experts were correct to decline the claim. It asked for
the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I considered the complaint and issued my provisional decision in May 2021. I said that I also 
thought that the complaint should be upheld but with slightly different redress to that 
recommended by our investigator. I thought that Aviva should settle Mr S and Miss Gs 
claim, reimburse them any expenses they had incurred as a result of it (providing these 
could be evidenced) and add interest to any amounts theyd paid at this services usual 
rates. I also thought that Aviva should pay them compensation of £250 for the avoidable 
trouble and upset itd caused them. I made the following provisional findings: 
Avivas policy offers two levels of cover, Standard and Premier. I can see from Mr S and
Miss Gs policy schedule that they selected and paid for the enhanced Premier level of
cover. The policy terms say:
[This] Home Insurance offers a choice of two levels of cover, Standard or Premier. If you
have selected Buildings cover, Your Schedule will show which level of cover you have
selected. The terms and conditions for Standard and Premier are different, please refer to
the section of cover that you have selected
It goes on to say:
Premier Buildings
If you have chosen Premier Buildings it will be shown on your Schedule
What is covered
The cover provided by this section is explained below:
1. Loss or damage to buildings
2. Tracing and accessing leaks
If the buildings are damaged due to water escaping from a pipe(s)We will pay the
reasonable cost of removing, replacing and reinstating any part of the buildings necessary to
find the source of any waterand making good at the home
3. 
What is not covered
Anything set out in the Premier buildings section exclusions or general exclusions section of
this Policy Booklet
The policy defines Buildings as: The Home, swimming pools, ornamental pondsetc. And
it defines Home as: The houseits outbuildingsand the total area of the plot
It is reasonable to think that water continuously flooding the sub-floor area of the home
equates to damage. The sub-floor is part of the house and the house is part of the home (as
defined). I can also see from the claim notes on Avivas system that Mr S reported damage
to the floorboards (also part of the home). So I think its reasonable to think that there has
been damage to the buildings. This is the threshold for establishing a valid claim under thePremier cover section of the policy. So, if it is to defeat the claim, Aviva needs to show one
of the policy exclusions can be successfully applied to defeat it.
Unfortunately for Aviva there are no relevant Premier buildings section exclusions that
apply to the circumstances of the claim. And Aviva hasnt relied on any of the policys
general exclusions to decline the claim. Aviva has said it is declining the claim because there
was no cover for land drains that dont service or benefit the buildings. But I cant see any
such exclusion in the policy. Under the home emergency cover section there is mention of
not being covered for drains that arent the policyholders responsibility but Mr S and Miss
Gs claim isnt being made under the home emergency section of the policy.
As an alternative, Aviva has argued that its not been able to identify the policy peril that the
damage fell under. Im not sure why Aviva has said this. The only mention of perils  storm,
flood, theft etc.  is under the Standard cover section of the policy. But Mr S and Miss G
dont have Standard cover. They have Premier cover under which they are covered for all
damage and loss to their buildings (subject to any applicable exclusions) not peril specific
loss or damage. It seems to me that Aviva is either failing to consider Mr S and Miss Gs
claim under the relevant sections of the policy conditions or is endeavouring to rely on
exclusions that arent there.
Nor does the cover Mr S and Miss G have only provide trace and access cover for pipes
servicing the home, as stated by Aviva. Ive set out the relevant condition above and it
provides cover for tracing and accessing leaks if the buildings are damaged due to water
escaping from pipes. Mr S and Miss Gs building has been damaged by water escaping from
a pipe. There is no policy requirement that the pipe need serve the home. If Aviva wanted to
limit cover in this way then it shouldve drafted the policy terms to reflect that.
Mr S and Miss G replied to say they accepted my provisional decision and had no further 
comments to make. Our investigator chased Aviva but it hasnt replied or made any 
comment in response. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any substantive comment in response to my provisional 
decision my provisional findings and provisional decision remain unchanged and now form 
part of this, my final decision. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that this is a complaint that should be upheld. 
Putting things right
I dont think Aviva has treated Mr S and Miss G fairly by repeatedly declining their claim,
failing to consider it under the correct sections of the policy and by causing frustrating
delays. I think that Aviva should settle Mr S and Miss Gs claim. Providing Mr S and Miss G
can evidence the expenses they have incurred as a result of the claim (invoices etc.), I think
Aviva should reimburse them. Aviva should add interest to any amounts Mr S and Miss G
have paid out at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date the invoices
were settled to the date it pays my award.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr S and Miss G how much its taken off. It should also give them
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &Customs if appropriate.
Mr S and Miss G say that the poor level of service and communication they have received
from Aviva has caused them immeasurable stress and frustration. They have said they have
had to close off the dining room to keep their children safe so have been inconvenienced by
the loss of use of this room.
By their very nature, all insurance claims attract a certain level of inconvenience. Thats to be
expected. But where an insurer, through its words or deeds, makes an already stressful
situation worse this service can require it to pay compensation. Ive set out above the nature
of the avoidable trouble and upset caused to Mr S and Miss G by Aviva for which I think it
should pay them compensation of £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to take 
the steps set out under the putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman