DRN-2813642
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) was misrepresented to him and that it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
was the car misrepresented to Mr G?
If Mr G was told something that was false and if I was persuaded that he would not have 
proceeded with the deal if it wasnt for that false statement, I would consider the car had 
been misrepresented to him and Id ask SMF to take some further action.
Here Mr G claims the car was misrepresented to him for two reasons. He says the mileage 
had been tampered with and he says the car had been in an accident that hed not been told 
about.
the mileage discrepancy
The mileage recorded on the MOT in March 2018 was 47,757 but in April 2019 that mileage 
had clearly gone down. The business has explained that the dealership told Mr G about this 
discrepancy when he agreed to take receipt of the car. They said theyd explained the 
mileage recorded in March 2018 was wrong and thered been an administration error. They 
said the mileage should have been 37,757 and not 47,757 and that service records showed 
that to be the case.
Mr G says that he was never given the service records and that the mileage discrepancy 
wasnt explained to him. He says that in 2021 when a garage tried to reset the service 
interval the mileage jumped by 20,000 and he thinks this demonstrates the mileage had 
been previously tampered with. And, he says the garage he bought the car from has a 
history of tampering with mileages on vehicles.
So, Ive thought about whether the mileage on the car Mr G was financing was likely to have 
been 41,930, as the finance agreement suggests, or a higher figure. Im not persuaded there 
is enough evidence to suggest the car was clocked. 
Our investigator spoke to the garage who reset the service counter in 2021 and they 
confirmed that the mileage had jumped on the car but didnt suggest that was likely to have 
been because of tampering. I think they would have been likely to do so if they had 
suspicions that was the case. So, I dont think Mr Gs report, that the mileage has suddenly 
changed, is evidence that the mileage the car had actually covered before he received it was 
higher than reported.
If the service records were available it would have been possible to consider the mileage 
recorded on those in order to decide if the March 2018 MOT record was correct or whether it 
had been overstated by ten thousand miles. Mr G didnt report the missing service records to 
SMF until hed had the car for 9 months and I think its more likely than not that he would 
have noticed this earlier had they been missing. I say that because I think the cars previous 
service history would be an important consideration when he was thinking of buying the car. 
Its absence would have been very clear at the point of sale especially as Mr G has explained 
he was told the service history was complete.
Mr G has provided a copy of an online vehicle check report and that also highlights the 
discrepancy in the MOT mileages. But it doesnt provide any additional information to help us 
to understand if this was due to an administration error or something more sinister. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence Mr G wasnt aware of the 
MOT discrepancy and I think its likely the discrepancy was explained in the service records 
that would most likely have been present when the car was supplied.
the accident damage
Mr G says its become apparent that there was accident damage to the car before he took 
receipt of it and that, as he wasnt told of that damage, the car was misrepresented to him.
Ive reviewed the photographs Mr G has provided and Ive noted that he suggests experts 
have confirmed the damage would have been present at the point the car was supplied to 
him. But Mr G hasnt provided a report from an expert in these matters to substantiate his 
claim and, on balance, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that the car had been 
subject to accident damage before it was supplied to Mr G and that damage was so 
significant the business should have told him about it.
was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. The car here was 
about five years old and had already completed about 41,930 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have some wear and tear.
Mr G says he had to take the car back to the dealership shortly after he took receipt of it. Ive 
seen that the wheel bearing needed to be repaired and Mr G says that the brake pads were 
replaced but not the discs. Ive not seen evidence that the brakes were repaired, and the 
MOT completed in January 2020, around the time of supply, doesnt identify any problems 
with the brakes. On balance, Im therefore not persuaded there was anything wrong with the 
brakes and I think the business completed a successful repair to the cars wheel bearing, as 
legislation allowed them to do, as theres been no evidence of that failure reoccurring.
Mr G says there were lots of fault codes on the car at that time and when he reported further 
problems to the dealership in September 2020. SMF are only responsible for the quality of 
the car when it was supplied. Ive not seen evidence of any fault codes present within the 
first six months and the relevant legislation explains that if faults occur after that time it is for 
the consumer to demonstrate they were most probably present or developing when the car 
was supplied. I dont think Mr G has been able to do that. I understand the car has suffered 
further problems with the engine, but again, as Mr G has not provided any evidence to 
suggest the faults were present when the car was supplied to him, and as hes been able to 
complete significant mileage in the car since he took receipt of it, I am not persuaded there is 
sufficient evidence these faults were present on delivery or that they are SMFs 
responsibility.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman