DRN-4391817
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked a potential scam payment, but 
didnt block his genuine payments.
What happened
Mr B tried to pay over £1,500 to a cryptocurrency platform. Barclays flagged the payment 
and discussed it with him. Mr B explained that he was told hed made gains and had a large 
amount waiting for him, but he needed to put more money in before he could take money 
out. The advisor explained this was most likely a scam, and referred him to branch. They 
cancelled the payment and blocked his account to keep it safe.
Mr B went to branch and withdrew some cash. He got his account broadly unblocked, but his 
mobile banking was still blocked. Mr B was told he needed to go back to branch and talk 
about scams in order to get his mobile banking unblocked, but he didnt want to.
In the meantime, Mr B made a large number of payments to mobile games. He confirms 
these were genuine payments he made himself, but hes unhappy Barclays didnt block them 
as he feels he spent too much. He also said he couldve monitored his spending better if his 
mobile banking hadnt been blocked.
With encouragement from our investigator, Mr B eventually did go to branch and his mobile 
banking was unblocked.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that banks are expected to put through payments that a customer 
asks them to make.
Banks might block payments if they suspect the payment is the result of fraud or scams, to 
help keep customers safe. So Barclays were entitled to stop Mr Bs attempted payment to 
the crypto platform, based on their scam concerns.
Crypto is often used for scams. And its a well-known scam to tell victims that they have 
made large profits, but can only access them if they pay more money in. Genuine investment 
platforms will not normally require you make large deposits in order to access your own 
money. So generally speaking, if youre asked to do that, youre probably being scammed. It 
is very likely that Mr B was being scammed here. If Barclays had let his payment through, its 
likely Mr B wouldve lost that money entirely. So I find that Barclays were right to stop it.
On the other hand, Barclays had no good reason to block Mr Bs spending on mobile games. 
These were genuine payments which Mr B made himself, of relatively small amounts, over a 
number of weeks, to real apps, via Apple  a large, well-known, well-established, secure 
company who Mr B had used for years. They were not fraudulent or scam payments. And as 
I said before, Barclays were generally supposed to put customers payments through except 
for situations like stopping fraud or scams.
If Mr B is concerned about his potential future spending on mobile games, he could ask 
Barclays for further support, such as limiting his spending. But in this particular case, I would 
not have expected Barclays to limit Mr Bs genuine spending unless he asked them to.
I appreciate that Mr B might have found it easier to monitor his account if his mobile banking 
wasnt blocked. But as I established before, Barclays acted fairly in blocking his account, 
including his mobile banking. And Mr B chose not to take the steps he needed to take in 
order to unblock his mobile banking. Further, Mr B is generally responsible for the spending 
he chooses to make. I cannot fairly hold Barclays responsible for the payments which Mr B 
chose to make here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this particular case.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman