DRN-3706740
The complaint
Mr K, who is a sole trader, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his business bank 
account without any prior notice.
What happened
Mr K received a letter from Barclays informing that his account had been closed and which 
included a cheque for the closing account balance. Mr K contacted Barclays about this and 
was told that several letters had been sent to him advising him that he needed to take action 
otherwise there was a risk that his account would be closed. Mr K wasnt happy about this, 
especially as hed never received the letters Barclays referred to, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ks complaint. They confirmed that a series of correctly addressed 
letters had been sent to Mr K advising that action was required from him, and so they didnt 
feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr K by closing the account when Mr K hadnt 
responded to any of those letters. Mr K wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
continued to be dissatisfied and maintained that hed never received any of the letters 
Barclays said theyd sent, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In much the same way that a person can choose which bank theyd like to open an account 
with, a bank such as Barclays can choose who theyre willing to offer, of continue to offer, 
banking services to. This is referenced in Barclays terms and conditions, which explain that if 
they do make the choice to close an account, theyll provide their customer with at least two 
months notice of any impending closure.
Barclays say they provided this two month notice of closure to Mr K, and that they sent 
several other letter prior to issuing that notice of closure which in effect gave Mr K almost a 
year to respond to those letters and take the action required of him by Barclays. Conversely, 
Mr K says he didnt receive any of the letters Barclays sent to him, so that when Barclays did 
close his account and sent the letter to him advising as such with a cheque for the closing 
account balance, Barclays were effectively closing his account without any prior notice. 
In circumstances such as this, where the positions of the complainant and the respondent 
business are in contradiction with one another, I have to decide, if I feel its reasonably 
possible to do so, what version of events I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, 
and in consideration of all the information and evidence available to me. 
However, it must be acknowledged that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law 
and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit to declare that Barclays 
have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful manner. Such declarations would be 
for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to make. Rather, this service is an informal dispute 
resolution service, with a remit based on fairness of outcome. 
Barclays say that letters were sent to Mr K requiring action from him on 31 March, 6 May, 
and 7 June 2021, and that when Mr K didnt take the required action in response to these 
letters that a notice of account closure was sent to him on 29 October 2021, which advised 
Mr K that his account would be closed after the two months notice given in that letter had 
expired. Finally, Barclays say that the account was closed, and a letter sent to Mr K advising 
him of this, on 3 March 2022, which Im satisfied is after the two month notice period given in 
the account closure letter had passed. 
Mr K has confirmed he received the account closure letter dated 3 March 2022. And from the 
information Barclays have provided to this service, Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that the other letters Barclays say were sent to Mr K were posted to him, and that they were 
addressed to the same address as the letter dated 3 March 2022, which Mr K did receive.
Mr K has explained that his postal address is similar to another nearby address which 
sometimes mistakenly receives post addressed to himself. So, it could be the case that the 
first four letters sent to Mr K werent successfully delivered to Mr Ks address, such that they 
werent received by him. This would be unfortunate, but I dont feel that it would be unfair. 
And this is because this service wouldnt hold a business accountable for the non-delivery of 
correctly address mail, given that the delivery of mail is undertaken by a postal service over 
which a business has no control.
I also feel that, on balance, it would be unlikely that four correctly addressed letters would fail 
to be delivered. And so, I feel the possibility exists that Mr K did receive some, or all, of the 
letters sent to him, but either didnt read them, or didnt recognise the importance of them.  
Ultimately, given the information and evidence available to me, I feel its very likely that 
correctly addressed letters were sent to Mr K as Barclays maintain, and so Im satisfied that 
Barclays did provide Mr K with notice of their intention to close his account as required by 
their own terms. And if it were the case that Mr K didnt receive any of those letters, the non-
delivery of correctly addressed mail isnt something for which Id hold Barclays responsible.
Mr K has noted that he has elected for paperless banking with Barclays and asked why 
Barclays couldnt provide notice of their intention to close his account by other channels, 
such as by online banking notification. I can appreciate Mr Ks position here, but paperless 
banking usually refers only to regular notices such as monthly account statements, and how 
Barclays choose to provide other notices or requirements, such as were sent to Mr K by 
post, is a decision Barclays are entitled to make.
Mr K has also asked why, if Barclays were sending such important mail by post, why it 
wasnt sent by recorded delivery, to assure that its correctly received. But businesses such 
as Barclays are under no obligation to send post by recorded delivery, the cumulative 
business-wide cost of which I note would be prohibitive, and as explained above Im satisfied 
that Barclays did send a long sequence of letters to Mr K which I feel its reasonable that 
Barclays would have expected Mr K to have received and responded to. 
I also must note that its Mr Ks responsibility, as the account holder, to ensure Barclays hold 
a viable contact address for him. And so, if Mr K was concerned about his ability to receive 
mail for the reasons explained previously, I feel it was incumbent on Mr K to have informed 
Barclays about this and to potentially have supplied an alternative correspondence address. Finally, I note that Mr K doesnt feel that the content of the letters sent to him  which hes 
been apprised of following the closure of the account  merits the closure of the account. 
This is a moot point because Mr K confirms he didnt receive those letters. However, I note 
that the letters do include a warning that if Mr K doesnt provide the information required of 
him that his account may be closed. And again, this was a process I feel that Barclays were 
entitled to follow, and a decision they were entitled to make.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr K in the 
manner that he contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr K was wanting here, but I hope Mr K will understand, 
given all that Ive explained, including the remit of this service, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman