DRN-1476464
 
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with her insurers Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Ltd (Lloyds) who has 
declined her claim for storm damage under her home buildings insurance. 
 
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs E contacted Lloyds to report that there was damage to her home 
following a storm. She said that a bird had also fallen through her chimney and caused 
damage. As to the damage she wasnt sure when that had happened. 
 
Lloyds sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. He reported that there was a lot of damp in 
the home. The damage present wasnt caused by a storm and was more likely caused by 
wear and tear. On this basis Lloyds declined the claim.
 
Lloyds had accepted that there had been a delay between the declining of the claim and 
informing Mrs E. For this, it offered Mrs E £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
 
Mrs E was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to the service. 
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Lloyds acted fairly. There were no 
storm conditions present and the damage was more likely gradual having happened over 
time. As such, Lloyds could rely on the exclusion clause of wear and tear, in declining the 
claim. 
 
Mrs E wasnt happy about this and raised a further complaint that she wanted dealt with at 
the same time. That further complaint will be dealt with separately.
 
This complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I will now give my reasons why.
 
There are three sections in this complaint which can be divided into storm, wear and tear 
and accidental damage. For ease, I will deal with each section separately.
 
Storm
 
In assessing the evidence I must establish whether or not there were prevailing storm 
conditions at the time of the claim. This is slightly challenging as Mrs E cant recall when the 
storm conditions occurred. So in fairness, I have looked at weather reports 4 months before 
the date of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were storm conditions, I must then decide if 
Lloyds ought to have considered the claim under the accidental damage section of Mrs Es 
policy.  
 
Was there a storm?
 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm.  These are: 
 
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can, reasonably decline 
a claim. 
 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
 
Lloyds determined that the event didnt amount to a storm as it failed to meet their definition 
of a storm, namely: 
 A period of violent weather defined as: strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, 
sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it 
causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass
 
I have considered the local weather reports which are usually the best evidence I can rely on 
to check whether there were prevailing storm conditions. These show that there was rainfall 
around the time of the claim, but it wasnt sufficiently heavy enough to meet Lloyds 
definition. Also the winds werent sufficiently strong enough to meet the requirements. 
Looking at the reports, I cant be satisfied that a storm was present up to the 4 months 
preceding the claim. So the answer to the first question is no and consequently I have 
decided it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim on the basis of no storm being 
present 
 
Mrs E said that there were three areas in her home that became damaged. These were the 
conservatory, the internal walls and the chimney. 
 
Dealing with the chimney first. The surveyor indicated that there was no evidence of storm 
damage to the chimney. The report said: if a chimney pot had fallen down there would be 
damage to the main roof and evidence of debris. The surveyor took photos of the chimney 
and what I have seen is that the chimney appears intact. So I can see why Lloyds declined 
the claim to the chimney under no storm damage being present. 
 
Wear and tear.
 
The internal walls were also inspected and damp readings were taken by the surveyor. He 
noted that there was rising damp in the hall and the cause of this was a blocked drain 
outside. There was no damage noted by the surveyor to the landing. As the surveyor had 
found that it was a blocked drain that had caused the damp, I can see why Lloyds declined 
the claim on the basis of wear and tear.
 
The surveyor also inspected the conservatory. He found that there was damage to the roof 
in that it was loose and the fixings had deteriorated. The water damage had been happening 
over time. He also found that the facia boards were rotting and there was evidence of nail 
fatigue. I am more persuaded by the surveyors conclusion that the damage was caused by 
wear and tear and as such I think it is reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim.   
 
Accidental Damage 
 I must also consider whether Mrs E had a claim under accidental damage. Lloyds defines 
accidental damage as:
 Accidental Damage  An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly 
by an outside force and is not expected and not deliberate.
 
Mrs E said that she wasnt sure when the damage occurred because she had been busy 
with her daughter who was ill. But she said that every time it rained, the walls become wetter 
and her daughter had seen soot fall down from the chimney when the wind blew. Mrs E said 
she was fearful that further damage would be caused as a result of the weather. 
 
I accept that Mrs E was understandably preoccupied and may not have noticed when the 
damaged occurred. From what she has said, I think it is reasonable to conclude that the 
damage she describes isnt a one off sudden incident. So I think Lloyds can rely on the 
policy terms and it is fair that they declined her claim for those reasons. 
 
Compensation
 
Lloyds had accepted that it didnt act promptly in notifying Mrs E of her declined claim. It 
offered £25 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I have to 
assess whether the level of compensation is fair in the circumstances. 
 
The timeline of events shows that Lloyds were told that the claim would be declined just 
under 2 weeks before telling Mrs E in writing that her claim would be declined. In the 
circumstances, I think £25 compensation is fair for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
this delay. 
 
Overall, I am satisfied that Lloyds have acted fairly in declining Mrs Es claim.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman