DRN-4004274
The complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Lending Stream lent Mr S two loans, both loans were for a six-month period. The loan 
repayments were £168.89 and £207.16 respectively. Mr S had repaid the first loan and the 
second loan is still outstanding.
When Mr S complained to Lending Stream, it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it carried out 
sufficient checks and those checks showed Mr S could afford the loans. Mr S referred his 
complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld as she thought Lending Streams checks 
went far enough and those checks suggested Mr S could afford the repayment.
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision and so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr S could repay the loans over their terms without suffering financially.
Lending Stream has provided evidence to show that before lending any of the loans, it 
searched Mr S credit file, asked him about his monthly income and living expenses. Those 
checks showed Mr S was left with sufficient disposable income on each occasion to repay 
the loans over their term. The results of the credit search also suggest there was nothing 
that should have concerned Lending Stream about Mr S ability to repay the loans.
Mr S declared income was between £1,550 and £1,650, considering the loan repayments 
were around £168 and £207 respectively, these repayments were low compared to Mr S 
income. Also, as the checks didnt raise any concerns that should have prompted Lending 
Stream to take its checks further, I think the checks went far enough and those checks 
suggest Mr S could repay the loans. I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to lend either 
loan to Mr S.
I understand Mr S has had difficulties repaying the second loan but from what Ive seen, his 
struggle to repay this loan wasnt something that was or ought to have been apparent to 
Lending Stream from its reasonable checks when it lent.
I think Lending Stream acted fairly when it lent both loans to Mr S and so it hasnt done 
anything wrong.  Id however, remind Lending Stream of its responsibility to treat Mr S fairly 
and show due forbearance in his financial difficulties.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint and make no award against 
Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman