DRN-2608510
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were mis-sold investments by HSBC UK Bank Plc. Theyre 
represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In 1998 Mr and Mrs P were each advised in to invest in a PEP/Stocks and Shares ISA 
product. It appears that they made contributions of £6,000 and transferred in a similar 
amount from existing investments. They maintained the new investments until 2007, with 
Mr P making several further contributions in the interim. 
At the time of the advice Mr and Mrs P were in their 60s and retired, having just returned to 
the UK from abroad where Mr Ps job had been based. They had pension income and some 
money from a house sale made before moving abroad. 
In response to the complaint HSBC explained that there was no documentation available 
from the point of sale. And, as the investments had been made into a portfolio product, a 
system update in the intervening years meant there was also no information available 
concerning how the money had been invested. Nevertheless, it felt that the advice was likely 
to have been broadly suitable as the investments had been maintained for several years, 
and the portfolio was likely to have featured a reasonable amount of diversity.   
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator noted the lack of 
information available and concluded that, as such, it wasnt possible to make a finding that 
the advice had been unsuitable. 
Without a fact find or recommendation letter to show Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and 
objectives at he time, he felt he couldnt, for instance, determine whether the investments 
had carried too much risk or whether too much of their money had been invested. 
He noted that some information that had been obtained by the CMC via a subject access 
request indicated that Mr and Mrs P had used a stock broking service, which suggested that 
they may, in any event, have been experienced investors.
Mr and Mrs Ps CMC didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in brief:
What the investigator has assumed to be execution-only stockbroking deals were 
actually records of trading with the HSBC portfolio.
Mr P had a small number of shares from his employer and utilities sell-offs, but this 
didnt indicate that he was an experienced investor.
The transactions shown in the records it had obtained from HSBC showed a 
significant amount of risk that was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs P.
At the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs P were still getting used to a change in 
circumstances  returning to the UK and moving into a new property. It was likely 
there wouldve been a need for access to the invested capital.
Mr P had invested a total of £56,000, which the records suggested wouldve been the 
bulk of his assets. The further advice in 2005 and 2007 suggested that up to 60% of 
his assets wouldve been held in the HSBC portfolio. 
It was therefore clear, even without the point of sale paperwork, that the advice had 
been unsuitable. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He reiterated the difficulties 
created by a lack of point of sale information and said that he felt that the CMC was relying 
on snippets of information from well after the initial advice that werent necessarily relevant 
to the situation. He wasnt persuaded that the trades in the records supplied by HSBC were 
from the HSBC portfolio and remained of the view that Mr and Mrs P most likely had some 
investment experience. 
In short, he felt there was simply not enough evidence to find that the advice had been 
unsuitable.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Theres little I can usefully add to his reasoning.
The absence of point of sale documentation  important documentary evidence that is often 
relied upon when investigating a complaint of this sort  doesnt necessarily mean that a 
complaint wont be upheld. A general consideration of the wider circumstances of the sale 
and of recollections of what happened can also be useful in deciding an outcome. 
But in this case, I dont think theres enough known about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and 
objectives to be sufficiently sure, on balance, that they were wrongly advised in 1998, or on 
any other occasion after that. 
A very large amount of documentation has been provided by way of the subject access 
request the CMC made to HSBC. But much of this relates to other accounts and covers 
different, later times. 
Its possible, as the CMC has done, to attempt to piece together an understanding of what 
might have happened and what Mr and Mrs Ps situation might have been around the time of 
the advice, or in the later years when it seems Mr P added to the investments. But I dont 
think this is strong enough evidence to support a finding that HSBC acted incorrectly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont up hold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman