DRN-3744945
The complaint
Ms N and Mr W complain about how Acromas Insurance Company Limited has handled a 
claim made on their motor insurance policy. Ms N is a named driver on Mr Ws policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged in an incident and Acromas took it to its approved repairer for 
repairs. Mr W was unhappy with the time taken to repair the car, the quality of the repairs 
and the service provided. Mr W said when the car was returned following repair, it was stuck 
in four wheel drive and so it was undriveable. 
Acromas took the car back. It thought the fault wasnt related to the incident or the repairs. 
The repairing garage and Mr W disagreed. And so Acromas took the car to a dealers 
garage for further diagnosis. Acromas then appointed an independent engineer to assess 
the car. He said it was possible that the fault was incident or claim related, but a full 
investigation was required. This wasnt authorised by Acromas and the car remained at the 
dealers garage.. Acromas provided Mr W with a hire car whilst the matter was investigated.
Ten months after the car had been taken back, Acromas said the parts needed to make a 
repair were no longer available. It offered to write off the car and pay Mr W its value in 
settlement of his claim. Or it said Mr W could retain the salvage and carry out repairs 
himself. It said a cash in lieu settlement wasnt possible as it couldnt obtain prices for the 
repairs. 
Acromas upheld Mr Ws complaints about the delays in the claim, the level of service hed 
received and its communication. It paid him £500 compensation for this. But Mr W remained 
unhappy because Acromas hadnt upheld the complaint about the poor repairs. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
had been poor service. But she thought Acromas offers to write the car off and pay Mr W 
£500 compensation for the level of service was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W replied that he wanted an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for 
a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to Acromas on 12 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mr W felt frustrated with how his claim has been handled. I could see 
that it took Acromas a year from the date of the accident to make its offer to write off his car 
as the parts needed for repair were no longer available. Mr W thought that if Acromas had 
acted on the independent engineers advice and authorised further investigations, or written 
off the car earlier, then his car could have been repaired. 
Mr W kindly provided a detailed timeline for the claim and I considered this alongside his 
emails and Acromas file. 
Mr W was adamant that the cars four wheel drive worked fine before the accident and 
repairs. And I had no reason to doubt him as I could see from the independent engineers 
report that the car was kept in above average condition. 
Mr W was very unhappy that his car was returned after repairs in an unroadworthy condition. 
He said the car was very hot and he thought it had been returned whilst being driven in four 
wheel drive. But Acromas engineer reviewed the authorised repairers reports and thought 
that no faults were evident shortly before the car was returned to Mr W. 
Acromas is only responsible for repairs that are claim or repair related. And so I thought it 
was reasonable for Acromas to investigate this problem in order to decide whether it was 
related to the incident or the repairs. 
And I thought Acromas took some reasonable steps to do this when the problem was raised 
with it. It considered the approved repairers view. It took the car to a dealers garage for 
diagnosis. It instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car. It then authorised further 
intensive diagnostics to strip down the car and the wiring. This concluded:
diagnostic now completed and they have found multiple faults that they have advised can 
give costings for as not part availability.
Acromas in-house engineer thought the faults werent related to the incident. And Acromas 
again consulted the independent engineer to decide if it was responsible for these repairs. 
But the engineer said the further diagnosis results werent enough for him to decide whether 
the faults were incident or repair related. He said further inspection was required. The 
dealers garage declined to undertake this. And I thought the claim then stalled and no 
further action was taken. 
Six weeks later, Mr W learned that parts were no longer available. But it took a further three 
months for Acromas to respond to Mr Ws complaint and make him an offer to resolve it. 
Acromas didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint about the faults to his car. Nor did it take 
responsibility for any rectification work. Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or 
how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these 
situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and 
whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
From what I could see, Acromas senior engineer thought the problems were unrelated to 
the incident or the repair. The independent engineer thought they may be related but further 
investigation was required. The dealers garage declined to undertake this. And Acromas 
didnt look for another option. So I couldnt say that Acromas had justified its decision not to 
take responsibility for these faults. 
But it was now too late for this to be rectified as the parts were no longer available. Acromas 
had provided Mr W with an offer to write off his car and pay him a settlement of its valuation 
less the policy excess. And he could buy back the salvage if he chose to do so. 
As the car cant now be repaired, I thought Acromas offer to write it off was fair and 
reasonable. I could see that the valuation it offered was in keeping with the independent 
engineers valuation at the time of the cars loss. But I could see that Mr W paid his policy 
excess after the repairs were made. And so I didnt think it was fair or reasonable for 
Acromas to require him to pay this again for the same claim. 
Also, I thought Mr W had been without his car for some time. From what I could see, 
Acromas provided Mr W with an equivalent replacement so that he could go on holiday and 
it kept him in hire whilst it investigated the claim. And so I thought it kept Mr W mobile. 
But I thought Mr W had lost out if he now wanted to buy a replacement car. And I thought his 
car was likely to have deteriorated after being kept in the dealers yard for a year. So I 
thought Acromas should reasonably add interest to its settlement offer from the date it was told the replacement parts were no longer available, 1 December 2021, to the date of 
settlement.  
Acromas accepted that it had caused avoidable delays in the claim, that its communication 
with Mr W had been poor and that its level of service had been wanting. It offered Mr W 
£500 compensation for this. 
But I thought this wasnt sufficient in the circumstances. I thought Mr W could reasonably 
have expected his car to be fully repaired in the first instance. I thought Acromas hadnt 
justified its decision that it wasnt responsible for further repairs. I thought itd caused Mr W 
considerable stress, trouble and upset for over a year through its poor communication and 
level of service. And so I thought it should increase its offer of compensation to £750. I 
thought this was in keeping with our published guidance for the impact the matter has had 
on Mr W. 
Mr W raised further concerns about how his car was returned to the approved repairer by the 
dealers garage. But I couldnt consider that here as this occurred after Acromas responded 
to his complaint. Mr W would have to raise this with Acromas first to give it a chance to 
respond. If he remains unhappy, he can bring his complaint to us. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or Acromas, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr W £4,840 in settlement for the total loss of his car, less a deduction for 
salvage if he accepted the option of retaining the car, adding interest to this amount. And to 
pay Mr W £750 (in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W replied that he reluctantly accepted my provisional decision in order to close the 
matter. He also said he was unhappy with the deduction that Acromas had made from the 
settlement for the cars salvage. But this isnt something that I can consider here, and Mr W 
will first have to raise this with Acromas to give it a chance to respond. 
Acromas replied that it has now paid a settlement to Mr W minus the policy excess and 
retention value. But, as I said above, I can see that Mr W has already paid his policy excess 
once for this claim and I dont think its fair for Acromas to deduct it a second time. So I 
require it to reimburse this amount. 
Acromas also said that it had kept Mr W in hire until recently when this should have ceased 
a week after it made him the offer to write off his car. It said it hadnt made payment then as 
Mr W didnt accept its offer. And I agree that Mr W could have accepted the offer as an 
interim payment whilst his complaint was being considered by this service. 
And so I think interest should be added to the settlement from the date it should have been 
written off until the date the settlement could have been made (2 June 2022). Mr W and 
Acromas have been given opportunity to comment on this point but havent raised 
objections. 
Acromas thought £500 compensation and a hire car for an extended time was fair 
compensation for the delays in the claim. But I disagree for the reasons Ive given above. 
And I think Acromas should increase its offer of compensation to £750. 
Putting things right
I require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to do the following:1. Pay Mr W £4,840 in settlement for the total loss of his car, less a deduction for salvage if 
he accepted the option of retaining the car, but without a further deduction for the 
excess. Interest should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date the car should have been written off (1 December 2021) until the date of offered 
settlement (2 June 2022). 
2. Pay Mr W £750 (in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim. 
If Acromas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman