DRN-4074440
The complaint
Ms B complains that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as BetterBorrow) is holding her 
liable for a loan she did not consent to.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Ms B says that, in July 2022, a third-party took out a £10,000 BetterBorrow loan in her name 
without her consent.  This amount was credited to her bank account, which she says she 
was deceived into transferring to the third-party.  Ms B says this all happened as part of a 
cryptocurrency scam  involving other loans from different lenders.
Ms B contacted BetterBorrow about the above, but it decided to hold her liable for the loan.  
Unhappy with this, Ms B raised a complaint and referred it to our Service.  One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Ms B disagrees with the 
investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
There are three possible scenarios which occurred in this matter relating to the BetterBorrow 
loan taken out in Ms Bs name:
a) Ms B consented to the loan by taking it out herself;
b) Ms B consented to the loan by providing authority to a third-party to take it out on her 
behalf; or
c) A third-party took out the loan without Ms Bs consent.
Ms Bs position is that scenario (c) applies in this case.  That is, the third-party she was 
dealing with took out the loan in her name without consent; and then deceived her into 
transferring the proceeds to them.
For a third-party to have been able to take out the loan in Ms Bs name, they would have 
required knowledge of certain aspects of Ms Bs credit file and her bank account details.  I 
say this based on the BetterBorrow loan application questions I have seen, and the bank 
account the loan proceeds were credited to.  The details Ms B says she provided the third-
party in this case would not have been enough to process the loan.
With this in mind, I have to consider how, on balance, the third-party was able to obtain the 
details required to apply for the loan in Ms Bs name?
Ms B has pointed to one possibility.  That is, the third-party asked her to download AnyDesk; 
and in doing so, the third-party was able to use AnyDesk to obtain the details they required 
to apply for the loan.
The difficulty I have with accepting this argument is the fact that the loan appears to have 
been approved before AnyDesk was downloaded.  I say this because BetterBorrows 
evidence shows the loan was approved at about 13.48 on 18 July 2022.  However, the 
chatlog between Ms B and the third-party shows that the third-party provided Ms B with the 
download link for AnyDesk at 14.09 on the same day.  For these reasons, I cannot accept 
the proposition that the third-party used AnyDesk to obtain the information required to secure 
the loan.  I also note that the investigator in this matter came to the same finding, and when 
this was put to Ms B  she did not provide a satisfactory explanation.
I have no other evidence before me which shows how the third-party was able to obtain the 
information required to take out the loan in Ms Bs name.  It follows that, on balance, I find it 
more likely than not, that either scenario (a) or (b) (above) happened in this case.
Ms B has raised some concerns about the loan application process.  Based on the evidence 
before me, I have not seen anything to suggest that anything improper occurred during the 
application process.
Taking all the above points together  I do not find that BetterBorrow has done anything 
wrong in the circumstances of this complaint.  It follows that I find it is fair for BetterBorrow to 
hold Ms B liable for the loan if it so wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman