DRN-2217153
The complaint
 Mrs S and Mr S complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt make a 
goodwill payment theyd promised Mrs S in connection with her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Admiral said theyd paid Mrs S, the policyholder, a goodwill gesture payment of £75 because 
of the pandemic. They said theyd paid this to the bank account that they had on record for 
her. But Mrs S said shed already closed that bank account and her bank hadnt received it.  
The investigator didnt think that Admiral had acted fairly,and recommended that Mrs S and 
Mr Ss complaint should be upheld as Mrs S hadnt received the money. They thought that 
Admiral should pay the £75. Admiral didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral said that their terms and conditions required them to pay the £75 to the bank 
account they had on record for Mrs S, and theyd done that. But Mrs S showed us a letter 
from her bank confirming that shed closed her account and theyd never received the £75. 
They said if they had, they would have returned it to Admiral and not kept it in a holding 
account. But Admiral said that her bank must have received it because Admiral had received 
an acquirer reference number (ARN) receipt, which they felt proved this.  
The investigator thought that the evidence was conflicting but that it was more plausible to 
conclude that Admiral did make the payment and that the payment was returned to them. I 
asked for more information from Admiral. This was because although theyd shown us their 
file notes and an ARN, that didnt show that Admiral had paid Mrs Ss bank, or that Mrs S s 
bank had received the payment, or that her bank had sent Admiral the ARN. 
Despite our requests, Admiral havent provided that information. And so theres nothing 
persuasive to link Admirals ARN with Mrs Ss bank account. 
Admiral referred us to another ombudsman decision which they felt supported their position, 
but the facts and circumstances of that case are different. In this case, Admiral have not 
shown us that they paid Mrs Ss account as they claimed. And so Admiral should now pay 
Mrs S. 
  
Putting things right
As Admiral have not persuaded me that they did pay Mrs Ss account, I think that they 
should now pay the £75 plus interest to Mrs S. 
My final decision
 For the reasons, Ive given above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
pay Mrs S £75 , 
Add interest of 8% simple per year to that amount from the date they should first  
have paid it to her to the date they do pay it to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from interest, they should tell Mrs S how much they have taken off, and give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
