DRN-3183630
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) on 22 February 2021 (when he called it) and in the days that followed.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I only provide a 
brief summary of it here.
Mr H says he received a message from his current account provider saying that it was 
having problems processing credits from NS&I and that he might want to contact it to ensure 
it was holding correct account details for him.
Mr H called NS&I on 22 February 2021 and was advised by it that its systems were down. 
Mr H wasnt happy about this, and some other things, so asked for a complaint to be logged. 
Mr H says NS&I refused to log a complaint for him but it nevertheless gave him a complaint 
reference number.
NS&I said its tried to call Mr H back on a number of occasions after his call of 
22 February 2021 (to discuss his complaint further) but it was unable to speak with him. So 
having issued Mr H with an acknowledgment letter (after 5 days) and a holding letter (after 
15 days) it issued him with a final response letter (FRL) on 13 April 2021.
Under cover of this FRL NS&I said it was sorry (due to technical issues) it was unable to 
assist Mr H during his call of 22 February 2021 and that for this it had arranged for £30 
compensation to be paid into his current account.
Mr H says he received a voicemail message from NS&I on 24 February 2021 (although not 
between the one hour window he had asked to be called in). But when he tried to call NS&I 
back his call in this respect was disconnected.
Mr Hs compliant was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
having paid him £30, NS&I need do nothing further.
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that I agree with the investigators view and there is very little I 
can usefully add to what has already been said.
First, I would like to make it clear that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate that Mr H would have found it frustrating that when he called NS&I on 
22 February 2021 its systems were down. I also appreciate that Mr H would have found it 
frustrating when he was unable to discuss his concerns/complaint with NS&I, shortly after 
22 February 2021, by phone and at a time that was convenient for him. 
But taking everything into account, including NS&Is notes of what was discussed during the 
call of 22 February 2021 and what it did subsequently, Im satisfied that NS&Is offer of £30 
represents, in all the circumstances, a fair and reasonable sum for it to have paid, or for it to 
have to pay, Mr H
For the sake of completeness I would also add that although Mr H might have liked a written 
response to his complaint sooner than he received one, Im satisfied that NS&I did nothing 
wrong in this respect, especially given the conditions the whole financial services industry 
was working under at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments, if it hasnt doesnt so already, 
must pay Mr H £30 in respect of this complaint, but it need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman