DRN-1491107
The complaint
Mr H complains that despite repeatedly asking Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) not to 
contact him at work with marketing calls, they continued to do so. He would like an increased 
offer of compensation for all the trouble and upset caused.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr H and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In June 2019 Mr H complained to Barclays about the marketing calls he was receiving at 
work. He said there had been 5 such calls over the course of the previous 2 to 3 months. He 
explained he had told each caller that he didnt want the calls and was re-assured that his 
name would be taken off the dialler list. As it wasnt, and he continued to receive calls, 
Barclays acknowledged they were at fault, apologised and offered him £150 in 
compensation which he accepted.
But Mr H had cause to complain again as he had received 2 further calls. Barclays 
apologised once more and offered a further £75 in compensation which Mr H didnt accept. 
Mr H said he would like £2,500.
Mr H was unhappy with Barclays final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator agreed there had been 
poor service but the amount of compensation offered was sufficient to put things right. 
Mr H didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into 
account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably. Ive 
looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have to make an 
independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done 
here. And in this case, I dont think that Barclays has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Barclays has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should 
compensate Mr H. And so the issue comes down to what the appropriate level of 
compensation should be. Mr H has clearly set out the impact he feels Barclays actions had 
on him, from frustration to embarrassment at work and to feeling anxious and stressed. I agree that having initially told Barclays that he wanted to opt out of the marketing calls, that 
it would be increasingly annoying to continue to receive them. But Mr H accepted £150 in 
June which he obviously felt at that time was sufficient to put matters right for receiving those 
calls. At that point in time I think Mr H was entitled to believe that the matter was sorted and 
settled, not least because he had told Barclays repeatedly he wanted to opt out, but also 
because their complaints dept had dealt with the matter in some detail. So the recurrence of 
the calls is much more significant because Barclays clearly havent given Mr Hs complaint 
the attention it deserved by putting into place measure to stop the calls. 
But I have to consider the impact on Mr H, and that has to be viewed against the settlement 
he has already accepted for the trouble and upset caused. There certainly has been an 
impact on him, much of which was dealt with in his first complaint. And whilst he was 
certainly inconvenienced by the further calls I dont think it would increase the trouble and 
upset caused to the extent Mr H wishes to be compensated.
Barclays have accepted that they failed Mr H on the second occasion and have offered him 
£75 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by the further 2 calls. Those calls took place over 
the intervening period since they previously compensated him, which was just over a week. 
Ive given this some further thought as to whether it is sufficient, and in so doing Ive 
considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. 
Ive also taken into account, in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have 
had on Mr H.
Ive also taken into account that any award of compensation for trouble and upset caused 
needs to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with 
other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient 
at times.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what Barclays offered is fair and reasonable. And I 
think it is enough to put matters right. So, although Mr H will probably be disappointed with 
my decision, and whilst Barclays have indeed made errors, I cant say Barclays has 
subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint, and this is fair and 
reasonable. So my final decision is that Barclays should pay Mr H £75. For the reasons set 
out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman