DRN-3600091
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund 
money they say was lost as part of a scam.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs B was convinced by a friend to invest in a betting syndicate with a company Ill 
refer to as L. 
Mrs B says she decided to invest because:
She was told that L has been trading for a few years with hundreds of members who 
had made considerable profits.
The person who convinced her to invest was a good friend she had known for a 
number of years and had even worked with. Mrs B says she had no reason not to 
believe what he told her. 
He told Mrs B that he had invested with L for around a year and made big profits, as 
had other friends of his. He also told Mrs B that hed withdrawn money from L without 
any issues, and he personally knew the director/owner of L. And, that L had been 
checked by solicitors and accountants to ensure it was legitimate.
She was told that her investment would double within 18 months to 2 years.
Mrs B decided to start with a small investment. She says she was given access to Ls 
website, with a unique PIN to log in, so she could track how her investment was doing.     
Mrs B says as her initial investment was making a monthly profit, she gradually increased 
the amount she invested over the next 18 months. 
These are the payments Mrs B made to L. Note the first three payments were made to an 
account held in the name of N, which was a company owned by the same owner as L. Both 
companies were part of a network of companies, all run by one company director, used as 
part of the betting syndicate he was running. The payments to N were made from Mrs Bs 
savings account, whereas the payments to L were made from Mrs Bs current account.
Date Transaction details Amount
12.8.2016 Faster Payment to N £   1,000
  3.1.2017 Faster Payment to N £  10,000
21.6.2017 Faster Payment to N £    5,000
13.7.2017 Faster payment to L £    5,000
15.8.2017 Faster payment to L £  25,000
16.8.2017 Faster payment to L £  25,000
18.8.2017 Faster payment to L £  25,000
20.8.2017 Faster payment to L £  25,000
Total amount invested with L £121,000 
Mr and Mrs B became aware theyd lost all their money when they tried to make a 
withdrawal from their investment for the first time in 2019. 
In 2019, the director/owner of L went into bankruptcy. Trustees were appointed to oversee 
the liquidation and Mr and Mrs B were told that the return on their investment was likely to be 
10p to 20p in the pound. 
As they were unlikely to get their money back, Mr and Mrs B raised a fraud claim with Halifax 
and asked for their help in recovering their funds.
Halifax considered Mr and Mrs Bs fraud claim but declined to refund them. Halifax told      
Mr and Mrs B that it was more likely that their loss came from a genuine firm being 
mismanaged  rather than it being a scam. Also, the payments werent unusual so hadnt 
flagged with them as being of concern. Halifax told Mr and Mrs B they werent liable for their 
loss.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with Halifaxs response, so they brought a complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. They felt the 
second payment from the savings account (£10,000) and the second payment from the 
current account (£25,000) were unusual and that Halifax shouldve been concerned and 
contacted Mr and Mrs B to discuss those payments. But, they felt a conversation was 
unlikely to have resulted in Mr and Mrs B not making the payments, based on the 
information Mr and Mrs B had at the time. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres an obligation on Halifax to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from, 
potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying 
suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations where potential 
fraud is identified, I would expect Halifax to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the 
customer. 
But, in Mr and Mrs Bs case, I dont think intervention wouldve prevented them from making 
the payments for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs B were introduced to L by a trusted friend. More importantly that friend 
had been investing with L for a significant period of time, during which hed made 
profits and been able to withdraw funds from his investment. The friend even told    
Mr and Mrs B that they knew the director/owner of L, and that checks had been done 
with solicitors and accountants to ensure L was legitimate.
At the time Mr and Mrs B invested with L in 2016/2017, there was no negative 
information available about the director/owner of L or about L or N. L was a 
registered company and had positive reviews posted online. So, even if Mr and Mrs 
B had decided to do their own checks on L or the director, I think its unlikely they 
wouldve seen any information that would have persuaded them or Halifax that       
Mr and Mrs B mayve been at risk of financial harm. It wasnt until 2019 when the director/owner filed for bankruptcy that negative 
information became available. It appears that the director/owner was using new 
investors money to pay out existing investors withdrawals, so investors had made 
returns as Mrs B was told by the friend who referred her in 2016.
Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in 
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. When Halifax made the payments, it was complying with Mr and Mrs 
Bs instructions. And, I think that even if Halifax had been concerned about the payments   
Mr and Mrs B were making and discussed them with Mr and Mrs B, that its unlikely that any 
information wouldve come to light to warrant Halifax not following Mr and Mrs Bs payment 
instructions. So, Im not satisfied that Halifax shouldve prevented Mr and Mrs B from making 
the payments or couldve prevented Mr and Mrs Bs loss.
I realise that Mr and Mrs B have lost a substantial amount of money and will be extremely 
disappointed. But, having considered everything very carefully, I cant fairly ask Halifax to 
refund their money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman