DRN-4356849
The complaint
Miss T has complained to Resolution Compliance Limited (Resolution) about the actions of 
its appointed representative, Revolut Trading Limited (RTL). To put the matter right Miss T 
would like to be compensated for her loss of US$129,301.01, tax charges and other costs.
What happened
Miss T had a trading account with RTL. RTL provides its customers with the ability to buy 
and sell investments on a non-advised basis. 
There were other parties involved in the relationship  
Company R who provided the e-money account linked to the trading account and; 
Company D who were the third-party broker who carried out the trades. 
On 18 March 2021 Company R told Miss T it was closing her account. To have an account 
with RTL a customer had to have an electronic money account with Company R. As a 
consequence, Miss Ts RTL stock trading account would also have to be closed. Miss T 
could either sell her shares or transfer them to a new platform provider.
Miss T sold her profitable shares but wanted to transfer her loss making holding of Arcturus 
Therapeutics Holding Com (ARCT) to a new broker. But Miss T had problems with the 
transfer of the holding to her new broker and sold the shares at a loss on 5 May 2021.
Miss T raised a complaint with RTL, and Resolution issued its final response on                    
8 August 2022. It said;
It clarified Miss Ts complaint points; RTL was uncooperative in the offboarding of her 
portfolio. None of the information she needed to transfer from her old broker 
(Company D) to her new broker was available to her. She required 60 days of 
uninterrupted access to her trading account prior to the account closure. She 
suffered a financial loss of US$129,230.01 on the ARCT shares and wanted 
compensation. Customer care was non-responsive and evasive. Company D didnt 
respond to her communication. She had been misinformed about the reporting 
authority in relation to her trading account. 
Miss T had referred to other complaint points  which Resolution detailed  but they 
related to Company R which didnt fall under Resolutions responsibility.
Miss Ts decision to sell the holding she was claiming for was carried out on              
5 May 2021 which preceded the potential liquidation and closure of the account on 
17 May, so it wouldnt accept responsibility for the losses.
It clarified the relationships it had with the other parties;
oCompany R  provided the electronic money account, was directly authorised 
by the regulator and Resolution had no jurisdiction over its actions or 
processes.
oRTL  the provider of the stock trading feature and an appointed 
representative of Resolution. The trading feature was linked to the electronic 
money account of Company R and so the trading feature would become 
unavailable if the main account was restricted or closed by Company R.
oCompany D  a third party broker which executed orders for the trading 
feature of RTL  which itself didnt execute orders but provided the facility to 
customers to pass their orders to Company D. Customers had a separate 
contract with Company D and Resolution didnt have any jurisdiction over its 
actions.
As RTLs stock trading feature was linked to the users main account with      
Company R it was incapable of existing in its own right and the closure of the main 
account meant the trading feature  as provided by RTL  would automatically result 
in the trading feature being unavailable. 
It apologised if Miss T didnt feel she received the customer care she wanted. But it 
noted she was in direct and regular contact with the complaint team between January 
and May 2021.
In April 2021 Miss T had been advised she had the option to initiate an ACAT 
transfer and could access portfolio details via the App. Or she could initiate a DTC 
transfer as an alternative.
She was also provided with stock information requested by her receiving broker, 
contact details of Company D and her account number. And as RTL wasnt party to 
the portfolio transfer it suggested that any questions relating to that be directed to 
Company D and her new broker. All the other information needed for the transfer was 
in the App.
Company Ds website link provided all the communication channels needed. Miss T 
wasnt prevented from initiating the transfer of the portfolio prior to the account 
closure on 17 May 2021. Any complaints about Company D were outside of 
Resolutions jurisdiction.
Miss T was advised of the account closure on 18 March 2021, and which gave 60 
days uninterrupted access prior to 17 May 2021. 
Miss T made the final two sales of ARCT on 5 May and proceeds were settled on     
7 May 2021. 
ACAT transfers were automated and usually processed within 48 hours of receipt of 
the request from the recipient broker. Miss Ts new broker had plenty of time to 
contact Company D and make the transfer request at the time she decided to sell her 
holding.
Miss T had been appropriately advised on 8 and 9 February 2021 about who to 
complain to about RTL. And was advised who to contact about the electronic money 
complaint. 
Remaining dissatisfied with the outcome, Miss T brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
It wouldnt be possible for this service to ask RTL to either reactivate her account or 
open a new one.
There was nothing to suggest that Miss T hadnt been able to trade or act on her 
account. She was given sufficient time to do so.
The ways in which Miss T could transfer her account holding had been explained to 
her. But it appeared that the delays were caused by her new broker. The investigator couldnt conclude that information had been withheld or that RTL tried to prevent 
Miss T from being able to transfer her account.
RTL had sufficiently communicated with Miss T. 
Miss T wasnt happy with the investigators conclusion, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
I should first make clear that in this decision I will only be considering the actions of Revolut 
Trading Limited  RTL  as appointed representative of Resolution Compliance Limited. I will 
not be considering any actions carried out by Company R or Company D. 
Miss T has provided detailed submissions in support of her complaint within which reference 
is made to the other parties and their interconnecting relationships etc. In addressing the 
complaint points raised, I will only be considering those that I consider to be relevant to this 
complaint  about RTL. 
And Im not going to respond to every point made and no discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues. Our rules allow me to take this 
approach. It reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.  
Resolution has told us the only direct contact it had with Miss T was when it issued its final 
response to her complaint on 8 August. 
RTL told us that it outsourced both its Customer Service Chat and complaints to       
Company R. But even though those services were outsourced I still think Resolution is 
responsible for the service Miss T received. So even though I wont be looking at     
Company Rs actions I have looked at its dealings with Miss T and the information it gave.
RTL didnt have any similar arrangement with Company D who only acted as its third-party 
broker, so I wont be considering any of the dealings Miss T had with Company D.
Company R decided to close Miss Ts electronic money account. When a client has a trading 
account with RTL that is only possible if the customer has an electronic money account with 
Company R. As a result of the electronic money account closure Miss Ts trading account 
with RTL was no longer sustainable and she was advised of the closure on 18 March 2021. 
At that time, she was told it would be closed on 17 May 2021  42 business days or 60 
calendar days.
Account closure timing
RTLs terms and conditions refer to its ability to suspend or close an account in exceptional 
circumstances or for other reasons. When doing so for other reasons  which I assume is 
the case with Miss Ts account as I cant see that any of the exceptional reasons listed apply here  its terms and conditions say that it would contact the client via the Revolut App 
at least 30 business days before the account is closed. 
Miss T has referred to 60 days in her complaint but from looking at the terms and conditions 
of Company R I see it is that business terms and conditions that refers to 60 days to 
withdraw money prior to closure and not 30 days which applied to her RTL account. And I 
note the date of 17 May 2021 was referred to in Company Rs final response to Miss T in 
reply to a separate complaint she made. 
So, in any event, Im satisfied that Miss T was given a total of 60 days to close her account, 
which gave her sufficient time to carry out any sales or transfers. 
Contact with Miss T
Miss T has complained about the contact she had. She said that when she asked questions 
via the App between 10 and 31 December 2020 the status was constantly showing as 
searching for an agent. This was before the account was to be closed and Miss T has also 
referred to being her being a premium member which only relates to her account with 
Company R, so I think it most likely this issue relates to Company R, so Ive commented only 
briefly with reference to RTL. 
Miss T carried out many trades in December which potentially could have involved RTL, but I 
note that Miss T raised a complaint with Company R on 5 January 2021 about her concerns 
over the buy orders on 10 December and which was later brought to this service. But that is 
a separate complaint issue about a different business and not a point I will be commenting 
on in this decision. 
However, RTL has provided us with the chat history during this period. Resolution said it 
didnt have any contact with Miss T during this time, so Ive reviewed the chat history she 
had with Company R as RTL said it outsourced that role.
The history shows that there is a conversation started by Miss T on 10 December 2020 and 
ended on 5 January 2021. Miss T asks about the pending status of cash transfers and that 
she wasnt able to do any more. The business  Company R I assume  was experiencing 
difficulties but said the App and Miss Ts card should work. But that all relates to the money 
account so isnt included in this complaint. 
The transfer  communication
After Miss T was told her account was being closed, she didnt want to sell her holding of 
ARCT as it was showing a loss so wanted to transfer it. RTL has provided a copy of the 
chats she had with Company R about this; 
6 April  Miss T asked about being able to transfer her shareholding and any charges 
involved. 
7 April  Miss T was reminded by Company R that it was in partnership with 
Company D and that Miss Ts new broker should directly contact Company D to 
authorise the transfer. It confirmed a cost of US$100, provided a link for the contact 
details of Company D and outlined the two types of transfer that could take place. It 
also said the information needed to initiate the transfer  such as Miss Ts account 
number, ISIN numbers etc  could be found on her profile on the Revolut App. If she 
couldnt find anything she needed she should contact its support team.In response Miss T messaged again and asked how long the transfer would take and 
whether it was possible for her to have a relationship with Company D, independent 
of Company R, so no transfer would be necessary.
Miss T messaged again asking whether Company R was able to transfer the portfolio 
and the cost, asking for a minimum of two months notice of the closure of her 
account, so 18 May. 
In reply Company R messaged to say it had responded regarding the transfer of the 
portfolio but said the length of time a transfer would take was outside of its control. 
Regarding a relationship with Company D, that question should be directed to 
Company D as it couldnt comment on that. Miss T had been given 60 days notice in 
line with Company Ds terms and conditions  18 March to 17 May 2021 and that 
date was final.
19 April - Miss T asked how long the transfer would take, and that as the recipient 
broker needed share purchase dates and cost prices where she could obtain this 
information. She also needed, Country, Bank/Broker, Contact person, Contact 
Phone Number, Contact Email for Company D and the person her broker should 
contact at Company D to enable the transfer. She asked for her account number, and 
which account she should use to retain the US$100 transfer fee. 
Miss T was advised Portfolio transfer should be requested by the new broker. 
Basically once its requested they should arrange everything. Please contact the new 
broker and clarify how to do it with them.
20 April  Miss T chased for a response as she was concerned about the deadline. 
She wanted particular care taken with the contact persons details and their 
availability and contact information as this is often where the process gets delayed 
and we would like to avoid that. 
Company R responded to say that as it didnt carry out the transfer process it wasnt 
aware of how long it would take  Miss T should contact her new broker about that. 
Stock purchase information was available on monthly statements on the Revolut 
App, but Miss T could contact its in-app customer support chat and statements would 
be shared with her. The contact details and link for Company D were given plus her 
account number and details where the US$100 should be kept. It explained again it 
was not part of the transfer process and further questions should be directed at 
Company D or her new broker. It said it had provided as much information as it could 
about the transfer and any further queries should be addressed to the other parties. 
In a further message Miss T was advised When it comes to portfolio transferring 
Revolut is not involved in the process because it is just a platform where you trade. 
Your broker at Revolut is [Company D] they are responsible for your portfolio transfer 
to new broker. You need to contact them and they will assist.
Miss T responded saying her broker couldnt contact Company D and it wasnt 
responding to any emails Miss T was sending. She asked for a contact person, that 
persons phone number and email address. 
21 April  Company R confirmed again the transfer of the portfolio wasnt part of its 
service and wasnt aware of who was in control of the process, or the procedure so 
couldnt help. It provided a link with contact details of Company D and said that    
Miss Ts new broker could also make direct contact as it should happen on their 
level. It considered the matter closed and further questions should be directed to the 
other parties. Miss T had been advised her account was being closed on 18 March, but the above chat 
history suggests that Miss T didnt initiate a transfer of her holding until 6 April  19 days 
after she was informed of the closure. I dont know the reason for this delay but note that 
Company R issued its final response on 6 April 2021 to a separate complaint that Miss T had 
made and in that final response it confirmed 17 May as being the closure date and that it 
was final and not amendable. So, it could have been that correspondence that caused  
Miss T to take the action to transfer her shareholding. 
Bearing in mind the above chat history and RTL saying that Miss T didnt initiate the transfer 
until April I cant agree RTL is responsible for Miss Ts delay in initiating the transfer of her 
portfolio. She was made aware of that on 18 March which gave her 60 days to do so. I cant 
find that any of the delays in Miss T starting the transfer process was the responsibility of 
RTL.
Miss T has said Company Ds relationship was with Company R  it was a business-to-
business relationship  and it wouldnt deal with Miss T. She says it is only Company R that 
could give an instruction if an account is to be transferred. She says that it is industry 
standard to not allow the customer to contact a third-party broker independently.
Miss T has provided a copy of a message she received from Company D which said, it does 
not support the functionalities mentioned in your message at this time. She was advised to 
contact Company R via her App or on the web. The screenshot is dated 12 May 2021  after 
the account was closed  and I assume it was given in response to Miss T making direct 
contact with Company D. Miss T has also provided a message from Company D confirming 
that it does not on board customers directly and gave details of its partners  including 
Revolut.
However, the chat history shows Miss T was advised by Company R that her new broker 
should contact Company D direct to arrange the transfer. I cannot see that she was advised 
to do so personally  she was only given links for Company D. 
I asked RTL about the information that was given to Miss T. It provided me with two links for 
Company D. One gives details about What is the process to transfer an account out of 
[Company D] using ACATS? And goes onto to say, In order to transfer assets out of 
[Company D] to another brokervia ACATS, customers will need to reach out to the 
receiving broker to initiate the transfer. 
The other link is headed What is the process to DTC transfer out of [Company D]. The first 
statement on that page states To process an incoming or outgoing DTC transfer, the 
customer will need to complete [a link is provided for Company Ds DTC Letter of 
Authorisation] and return it to the partner firm for processing. 
ACAT or Automated Customer Account Transfer Service is an automated system that 
automates the transfer of assets in a customers account from one broker to another. I 
understand this type of transfer usually completes within 48 hours. The new broker would 
have to submit the transfer via the ACAT system if it participated in that system.
The other option was via DTC which is a Depository Trust Company transfer which allows 
customers to transfer stock positions between brokers electronically. RTL told us the transfer 
usually completes within ten business days but is dependent upon the receiving broker. 
I think this information, and all the other information given on those pages is clear. And in 
particular it clarifies that any customer transfer requests must be done at business level and 
that customer requests via the transfer email address at Company D wont be processed. Taking all of the above into account  the chat history and the information provided  I cant 
agree that RTL could have done any more than it did. It provided Miss T with all of the 
necessary information and links she needed in order to proceed with the transfer. 
The transfer  process
Miss T said in the chat history that her new broker wasnt able to establish contact with 
Company D and has provided us with a copy of the message she received from her new 
broker about that. Clearly, I cant know the reason for this but would say that I find it unusual 
for one broker not to be able to contact another. But that is a separate issue about  
Company D, and I am only dealing with communication Company R had with Miss T in its 
role as RTLs outsourced provider of customer service.
Miss T has also provided a screenshot of a message she received from her new broker 
which said, Regarding stock transfers, the current delay is between 4 to 6 weeks as we are 
receiving a huge amount of incoming transfers. While the screenshot I have is undated it 
seems likely it is from sometime after Miss T started to initiate the transfer in early April 
2021. 
And because of the information given in that message, I dont think its unreasonable for me 
to question whether Miss T could ever have completed the transfer to her chosen new 
broker within the time frame in any event. I say this after taking into account the delays in 
Miss T starting the transfer process  not until 6 April  and the delays being experienced by 
her new broker  four to six weeks  its questionable the transfer to Miss Ts nominated 
broker could have completed within that time. 
Despite this, RTL told us that Miss T would still have had time to transfer her assets via 
ACATS to another broker if her chosen broker was experiencing delays, provided that broker 
accepted ACATS transfers. And from the information I have been given  ACATS take 
around 48 hours to process and DTC transfers within ten business days  what RTL has 
said about this seems correct. Miss T has queried these transfer timescales but even if they 
arent exactly as described by RTL, Im satisfied they are both processes that  once started 
 are designed to complete the transfer quickly  either automatically or electronically. 
Miss T has also told us that it was only Company R that could give instruction to Company D 
about a transfer and has provided a copy of information provided by Company D about 
transfers. But as mentioned above, depending upon the transfer method, Miss T would have 
to either complete a letter of authorisation and return it to RTL  the partner firm  for further 
processing or ask her broker to initiate the transfer. 
And while Ive reviewed the information Miss T has provided about Company D and 
termination of accounts, and I accept Miss T may not be happy with that, I cannot consider 
that as part of this complaint. And to reiterate, from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Company R, on behalf of RTL, gave Miss T all of the information she needed.  
Miss T has provided me with two examples of asset transfers with other businesses which 
were successful and carried out quickly. But I cant take those into account when considering 
this complaint as I am only looking at the actions of RTL that gave rise to this complaint. 
So, overall, from the information given by Company R  acting as outsourcing agent for RTL 
 I cant agree it has done anything wrong regarding the transfer information. It provided 
Miss T with contact details for the third-party broker, Company D, with whom Miss T had a 
separate contract. And it was for Miss Ts broker to make contact or for her to complete the 
letter of authorisation and arrange for the transfer. Miss T has said that she and her broker experienced significant problems in receiving a response but that is an issue to be taken up 
with Company D. 
The trade, settlement and account closure
No transfer was carried out and Miss T sold the last of her ARCT shareholding on                 
5 May 2021 in two tranches of 1,900 shares and 53 shares. Both sales were traded at 
US$33.12 per share giving a total of US$64,682.80. 
Miss T has said the 5 May 2021 was the last day on which she could liquidate her portfolio 
and receive funds. She says this was because of RTLs own internal process and time 
requirements. My understanding is that Miss Ts sale was carried out on 5 May and settled 
on 7 May so theres nothing to make me think that there would have been a delay in 
settlement because of RTLs own internal process and time requirements. 
Miss T has said that her account was terminated on 7 May, earlier than the deadline of       
17 May. But as the asset had been sold, the proceeds settled, and they had been 
transferred (but not received at that point) I cant see any reason why RTL would have kept 
the account open for longer than necessary. No further action could be taken on the account 
so I cant see that Miss T has been harmed because of this. 
Overall, I dont agree that RTL has done anything wrong. Im satisfied it communicated with 
Miss T as it should have done and provided her with the information she needed. I dont 
agree that it was RTLs actions that caused Miss T to sell her shareholding when she did. 
She had sufficient time in which to initiate that transfer  60 days  and I dont agree any 
delay in Miss T attempting the transfer was the responsibility of RTL. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint about                               
Resolution Compliance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman