DRN-4524178
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a credit card Lendable Ltd (trading as Zable) provided to him. 
He says the credit card and the subsequent credit limit increases were irresponsibly 
provided to him as they were unaffordable and provided while he suffered from a gambling 
addiction.
Background
Zable provided Mr M with a credit card with an initial limit of £200 in June 2021. Mr Ms credit 
limit was increased to £500 in August 2021 before it was increased to £800 in March 2022. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Zable had told us. And he thought Zable 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly in relation to providing the credit card or 
increasing the credit limit on either occasion. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint 
be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Zable needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is Zable 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Zable says it agreed to Mr Ms initial application for his credit card after it obtained 
information on his income and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained 
indicated that Mr M would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit 
card. 
For the limit increases, it considered Mr Ms account activity as well as the external 
information obtained, justified the small increases offered. On the other hand Mr M says that 
he was already struggling and shouldnt have been provided with this credit card.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Zables initial decision to provide Mr M with a credit card
Whats important to note is that Mr M was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Zable was required to understand whether a credit limit of £200 
could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A credit limit of 
£200 required small monthly payments (in comparison to Mr Ms cross-checked income) in 
order to clear the full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Furthermore, Ive seen records of the information Zable obtained from Mr M and that was on 
the credit search carried out. This information doesnt indicate to me that Zable ought to 
have realised that Mr M didnt have the funds to make the low monthly payment that would 
be required for this credit card. Mr M might have had defaults on his credit file. But these 
were not recent ones and the balances were reducing too. So I dont think that this in itself 
was a reason for Zable to have automatically declined Mr Ms application.
Given the information Zable obtained and what it showed, Im satisfied that Zable was 
entitled to rely on Mr Ms income information and what it had seen in the credit checks which 
led it to determine that an initial credit of £200 was affordable for Mr M. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that the checks carried out before Mr M was initially provided 
with his credit card were reasonable and proportionate.
The credit limit increases
For the first credit increase, it appears as though Zable relied on Mr Ms account having 
been managed well in the period since it had been opened. From what can see Mr M used 
almost all of the credit available to him as soon as he opened his account.
However, Im mindful that Mr M did make inroads into what he owed by the time he was 
offered his limit increases. He owed just under £184 on his August 2021 statement and while 
its fair to say that by October 2021 hed used all of the extra credit given to him as a result of 
the first limit increase, he was making payments that were much larger than the minimum 
required. For example, in January 2022, Mr M only owed £100. Furthermore, the external 
credit checks carried out didnt show that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing elsewhere 
either. It actually showing that his credit score was improving.
I appreciate that Mr M has provided evidence of a county court judgment (CCJ) having 
been recorded against him in July 2021. The first thing for me to say that Mr Ms first credit 
limit increase was offered in August 2021. So I just wouldnt expect his credit file to have had 
the time to update ahead of this. 
I accept that this information should have updated by the time the March 2022 credit limit 
increase was offered. But I havent seen anything to indicate that this flagged up on the 
credit search that Zable carried out. Im not sure why this happened. However, Zable could 
only consider what it saw. And, in circumstances where this information didnt show, I cant 
expect Zable to have taken the CCJ into account  this is especially as all the rest of the information gathered suggested that the relatively modest additional payments required for 
the respective credit limits offered, were affordable.
I know that Mr M says that his circumstances were worse than the information gathered 
showed, as he was struggling with a gambling addiction. Im really sorry to hear about what 
Mr M has told us. Its possible that Zable might have reached different lending decisions had 
it known about this, or obtained information such as bank statements. 
But the key thing here is not only did Zable not know about Mr Ms gambling, I dont think it 
can be reasonably expected to have known about it either. And, in these circumstances 
whilst I do sympathise with what Mr M has said and Im not seeking to dismiss or trivialise 
what hes told us, its simply the case that Zable could not have factored this into its lending 
decisions. I say this particularly in light of everything else suggesting the credit limits were 
affordable and therefore requesting information such as bank statements would be 
disproportionate in this instance.
Ive also seen that Zable has sent Mr M communications offering him a credit limit increase 
after his complaint. Its fair to say that this seems somewhat odd for Zable to have offered 
this limit increase after Mr M had already complained about irresponsible lending. However, 
as this limit increase hasnt been actioned and Mr M hasnt used the additional credit, I dont 
think hes lost out. 
So overall and having considered everything, while I can understand Mr Ms sentiments, I 
dont think that Zable treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when providing Mr M with his 
credit card or the subsequent limit increases. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman