DRN-2834179
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Santander UK Plc has not properly compensated them for the mis-sale of 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy and for delays in dealing with their complaint.
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with Santander. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy.
The PPI policy began in December 2005. The policy was premium free for the first three 
months. So no premiums were charged in December 2005, January 2006 and February 
2006.
In March and April 2006 Mr and Mrs T were charged premiums of £55.51 per month.
The policy was then cancelled and in May 2006 Mr and Mrs T received a refund of £111.02.
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs T complained to Santander about the sale of the PPI policy.
In December 2020 Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs T. In its letter Santander agreed the PPI 
had been mis-sold. But Santander explained that only two premiums had been paid and 
these had already been refunded. However Santander offered to pay Mr and Mrs T 
compensatory interest for the brief time in 2006 they hadnt had use of the money. The 
compensatory interest was calculated at 8% simple and totalled £0.90p after tax had been 
deducted.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy with Santanders reply and asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought the compensation offered by Santander was fair but 
asked Santander to pay £50 for the delay in dealing with the complaint.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators findings, it said the delay was caused by the PPI 
deadline followed by the covid pandemic and subsequent lockdown. 
A second adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt think Santander should pay £50 
compensation for the delays.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a PPI policy is found to have been mis-sold we would expect the business to return 
the consumer to the financial position theyd be in if the policy had not been sold.
To achieve this Id expect the business to refund all the PPI premiums paid. And Id expect 
the business to pay compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the time the 
consumer has been out of pocket.
It isnt clear how the policy came to be cancelled in 2006. Most likely Mr and Mrs T noticed 
the March and April premiums had been taken from their bank account and called to cancel 
the policy.
I note that in May 2006 the two premiums they had paid were refunded. So Mr and Mrs T 
have already received back all the premiums they paid 
Mr and Mrs T were only out of pocket for a short time between February and May 2006. And 
I can see Santander has calculated and paid compensatory interest for that period of time.
So I am satisfied that Santanders offer is fair and calculated in the way Id expect.
I can see that Mr and Mrs T complained to Santander in October 2019, but it was not until 
December 2020 that Santander gave them an answer to their complaint and offered them 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs T say the delay caused them to experience considerable inconvenience and 
stress as they chased a reply to their complaint. They say it would have been straightforward 
for Santander to tell them the premiums they paid had already been refunded and to have 
resolved their complaint much sooner.
Ive thought about this but in 2019 the deadline for PPI complaints saw businesses receive 
unprecedented numbers of complaints, which understandably in my view led to backlogs.
Coupled with this the covid pandemic and subsequent lockdown created a very difficult 
situation for most businesses.
Mr and Mrs T have said Santander could have told them sooner the premiums had been 
refunded in 2006. But Santander would have likely worked through the complaints they 
received in date order. And Santander would not have known the details of Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy until it actually came to be investigated.
So, taking all this into account it is my that although the delay was unfortunate I dont think it 
would be fair for me to make an award against Santander for the delay in dealing with Mr 
and Mrs Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plcs offer is fair and 
calculated in the way Id expect. And I dont make any additional award for the delay in 
dealing with Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman