DRN-3196921
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as A is unhappy with the service it received from 
HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding its application for a Bounce Bank Loan (BBL).
As director, Mr C, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
A applied for a BBL with HSBC on 24 March 2021. The BBL scheme had an end date for 
new applications of 31 March 2021.
On 8 April, Mr C contacted HSBC to check on the status of As application. At that time, he 
was told that As application had been approved and that HSBC had sent Facility Offer 
Letters to A which had subsequently expired. HSBC also explained that because the 
deadline for new applications had now passed, A wasnt able to reapply for a BBL. Mr C 
wasnt happy at what happened, especially as A had no records of receiving the Facility 
Offer Letters that HSBC claimed had been sent. So, he raised a complaint on As behalf.
HSBC looked at As complaint. But it confirmed it had sent Facility Offer Letters to A which 
hadnt been responded to within the required timeframe, and so didnt uphold As complaint. 
A wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so it referred its complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they accepted that A may not 
have received the Facility Offer Letters that HSBC sent, they were satisfied that HSBC had 
sent them, and so didnt feel that HSBC had acted unfairly towards A as A contended. 
A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr C has made it very clear that the Facility Offer 
Letters sent by HSBC  which were sent by email to two different email addresses 
associated with A  werent received by A. And Mr C explains that hes undertaken a 
thorough check of those email addresses to confirm this point.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Cs testimony on this point. However, it doesnt follow from this 
that HSBC have acted unfairly towards A as A contends here.
This is because I am satisfied from the evidence and information submitted to this service by 
HSBC, that the Facility Offer Letters in question were sent by HSBC to valid email addresses 
associated with A. 
The first of these emails was sent to the email address HSBC held on file for A on 26 March 
2021 and explained that the Facility Offer Letter had to be accepted within five days. Then, 
when this email wasnt responded to, HSBC sent a second Facility Offer Letter to a different 
email address given by A in its BBL application. And again, this second email explained that 
the Facility Offer Letter had to be accepted within five days.
So, while I accept that A may not have received the emails sent by HSBC that contained the 
Facility Offer Letters, I am satisfied that those emails were sent by HSBC and that they were 
sent to valid email addresses associated with A. And as such, I dont feel that I can fairly or 
reasonably hold HSBC accountable for the non-receipt of those Facility Offer Letters by A. 
In short, Im satisfied that it wasnt HSBCs fault that A didnt receive the Facility Offer Letters 
that HSBC sent.
Im aware that A feels that HSBC had an opportunity to explain the status of the outstanding 
Facility Offer Letters when Mr C called HSBC to enquire about the BBL application on As 
behalf, and that had HSBC done so A could have taken steps to ensure that it was able to 
accept the BBL facility offer that HSBC had sent before that offer expired. 
A has sent details of the telephone calls Mr C held with HSBC in this regard. But its notable 
that the relevant telephone call following the application took place on 8 April 2021. And 
unfortunately, by that date, both of the Facility Offer Letters that HSBC had sent to A had 
already expired. 
This means that while it may have been the case that HSBC didnt provide A with accurate 
information on the telephone call of 8 April, the ultimate outcome here  that the Facility 
Offer Letters and the BBL application deadline had both expired, meaning that A couldnt 
reapply for a BBL  would have remained the same, regardless of the detail and accuracy of 
the information given to A by HSBC on that call.
Im also aware that A feels HSBC should have sent the Facility Offer Letters in the post, as 
well as by email. I can appreciate As position here, but it isnt within the remit of this service 
to instruct a business to change its operational processes, but only to decide whether a fair 
outcome can be considered to have occurred as a result of the application of those policies.
In this instance, given that the Facility Offer Letters had an expiry period of only five days, I 
dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable for HSBC to have sent them by email rather than 
by post, especially as letters sent by post may not have been received by the applicant 
business until after or close to the date that the offer included in the letter was due to expire. 
Additionally, it must be recognised that the unique nature of the BBL scheme, including its 
rapid implementation and uptake, meant that lenders such as HSBC had a need to process 
large volumes of applications as expeditiously as possible. As such, I dont feel its  
reasonable to expect HSBC to have had more lengthy processes in place, such as offering a 
longer period of time for business such as A to have accepted the sent Facility Offer Letters. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that HSBC have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards A as A contends here. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome that A was wanting here, but I trust it will understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman