DRN-4183624
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr B was provided with a £5,000 loan by Santander in October 2021. The loan was 
repayable over 36 months with monthly repayments of around £177. The total amount 
repayable was around £6,380.
Mr B says that adequate checks werent carried out before the loan was provided and had 
they been it would have been seen that the loan was unaffordable. He said that at the time 
of his application he had account balances over their limits, an extensive history of using 
payday loans, was using his full limit on his credit cards, was frequently in his overdraft and 
was gambling. He said that had proportionate checks taken place it would have been clear 
that he was struggling financially, and that further credit shouldnt be provided. He said this 
loan made his situation worse.
Santander issued a final response letter in December 2022. It said that before lending it 
completed a full credit check and affordability check. It said that Mr Bs application passed its 
checks in place at the time and didnt accept that it had acted irresponsibly by providing the 
loan.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Santanders response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She didnt think that proportionate checks had taken 
place before the loan was provided and said that Santander should have obtained a 
thorough understanding of Mr Bs financial circumstances and verified the information 
received. She said that had this happened Santander would have seen that Mr B had other 
credit commitments and the repayments on these represented a significant portion of his 
income. She thought this made it unlikely that Mr B would have been able to sustainably 
meet his repayments for the new loan.
Santander didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that it carried out robust income 
and affordability checks before the loan was approved which included checking Mr Bs 
income and stated outgoings using a combination of credit bureau and third-party data. It 
also checked Mr Bs overall levels of debt and debt to income ratio. It said that Mr Bs stated 
monthly income was £1,433 and stated outgoings £400. It said it then estimated Mr Bs 
outgoings as totalling £1,368 including £309 for his mortgage payment (50% of total), £603 
for expenditure based on third-party estimates for customers with similar circumstances, 
£279 existing credit commitments and £177 for the new loan. It said based on this the loan 
repayments were affordable at the time it was provided.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My conclusions were as follows:
Before lending to Mr B, Santander carried out a credit check. It said this showed Mr B had 
existing monthly credit commitments of £279 with his total debt being £9,680 consisting of 
£9,457 in credit card debt and £233 in overdraft debt. As I havent seen a copy of 
Santanders credit check I have looked at the credit file Mr B has provided and considered 
this information alongside the information Santander has provided. Having done so I do not 
find that Mr Bs credit report shows signs that he was struggling financially such that the 
lending shouldnt have been provided. I can see he had previously used payday loans, but 
these were mainly in 2018 and had been settled. His accounts were up to date and while I 
can see he had other credit card accounts there was no adverse information recorded. 
Mr Bs total debt is in line with that amount recorded by Santander, and I do not find this 
alone meant the loan shouldnt have been provided. I have therefore considered whether the 
loan should have been considered affordable, especially noting Mr Bs existing credit 
commitments.
Santander says that Mr Bs stated monthly income was £1,433. I cannot see that this 
amount was verified but having looked through Mr Bs bank statements this is the amount he 
received in the month before his application. Considering the previous three months of bank 
statements these showed his average monthly income to be around £1,400. Therefore I find 
the income that Santander used in its assessment was reasonable.
Santander has explained that it used credit bureau information and third-party data to assess 
Mr Bs expenses. In this case, given Mr Bs existing credit commitments, I think it would have 
been proportionate to have asked him about his specific expenses to ensure the lending was 
affordable. While I do not find that Santander was required to see copies of Mr Bs bank 
statements, I have relied on the information in these as an indication of what Mr B would 
have disclosed about his expenses if asked. In the three months leading up to his application 
Mr Bs bank statements show his regular expenditure for costs such as payments towards 
his credit cards, insurance, communications services and housing costs to average around 
£520 a month. I cannot see payments towards his mortgage, but this is included in his credit 
file at a cost of £554 a month and I can see monthly payments into his account from an 
individual for an amount of around £360. So I find the inclusion of around £309 for Mr Bs 
mortgage costs by Santander was reasonable. Adding this to Mr Bs other expenses gives a 
total of around £829. Additional to these costs, Mr B was paying for food and fuel as well as 
other living costs. However, taking these amounts into account, and noting the repayments 
required for the Santander loan of around £177, I do not find I can say the loan repayments 
should have appeared unaffordable.
Therefore, without further evidence to the contrary, I find that further checks wouldnt have 
shown the lending to have been unaffordable and so I do not uphold this complaint.
Mr B didnt agree with my provisional decision and provided further evidence to support his 
complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, the 
total cost of the credit and what it knew about the consumer at the time of application.
Mr B provided additional information in response to my provisional decision and I have 
considered this. I note his comment that his overdraft could be removed at any time and that 
he was making payments towards his overdraft from his wages. I understand this, but for the 
assessment I think it reasonable that the overdraft is considered as a credit commitment 
alongside his other credit commitments and the costs associated are included and I can 
confirm I included these in my assessment.
I have looked again through Mr Bs credit file and I do not find this raised concerns that 
meant the lending shouldnt have been provided. I appreciate he had a number of credit 
searches recorded around the time but I do not find this alone meant he shouldnt have been 
provided the finance, rather that the affordability checks were particularly important to 
understand whether the lending was affordable for Mr B.
Mr B says that his income in the month before his application included additional back 
payments. While I note this comment, I have to consider what further verification of his 
income would have identified and having looked at the income shown in his bank statements 
in the months leading up to the loan application I do not find that further verification would 
have suggested an income of around £1,400 was unreasonable. Mr B has provided further 
details about his expenses at the time but considering this and the other information 
available I still do not find that this shows the agreement to have been unaffordable.
So, while I note Mr Bs comments about the additional credit he was taking I do not find in 
this case that further checks would have shown the lending to have been unaffordable and 
because of this I do not find that I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman