DRN-2028125
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Santander UK Plc has recorded information on his credit file which he 
thinks is incorrect.
Background
Mr A previously held an account with Santander in joint names with another party. This 
account was closed in October 2009.
In August 2019 a search was recorded on Mr As credit file by Santander. He has provided 
a copy of his credit file showing that this was described as an associate search. Mr A has 
said he did not apply for any products with Santander at that time and did not give 
permission for the search to be run. Santander said that the search was run as there was a 
financial association between Mr A and another party - resulting from the joint account held 
previously - and the other party had applied for credit. 
Mr A said the account which had resulted in the association had been closed for almost 
ten years when the search was run. So, he thought Santander was wrong to still record 
this association and that it had carried out the recent search of his file incorrectly.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2020 and explained that I was minded to uphold 
Mr As complaint. Below is an extract from that decision explaining why.
Businesses are obliged to report accurate information to credit reference agencies. When 
they do so about the conduct of an account, they generally report information about what 
has happened in the last six years  after which, that information is usually removed from 
an individuals credit report. In terms of associations between individuals and how long 
these are reported, I think it is reasonable that in certain circumstances, details of these 
association may be reported for longer than six years  if the account has remained open 
for longer than that with the associates remaining financially linked.
But looking at the circumstances of Mr As complaint, that isnt the case. Here the account 
which created the association that Santander was reporting was closed in 2009. And Mr A 
has said there were no other accounts with Santander or any other business linking Mr A 
to the third party. Santander appears to accept there are no other accounts held with it. I 
think it is reasonable that around the time of that account being open an association was 
reported. But I dont think it was fair or reasonable that Santander was still reporting this 
association in 2019 and I therefore think it has made an error.
It follows that if Santander had not been incorrectly still reporting the association between 
Mr A and the third party, then it would not have carried out a search of his credit file in 
August 2019. And this would not now be reported to credit reference agencies.
 
So, based on the information available I think Santander has made errors. I dont think it 
should still have been reporting the association between Mr A and the third party in 2019 
and I dont think it shouldve searched his credit file in August 2019.
I noted that Santander appeared to accept this and that at different stages of our 
investigation it had indicated it requested that both the association and the search be 
removed from Mr As credit file by credit reference agencies. But this hadnt been 
successfully completed when the complaint came to me to decide. I also noted that it had 
offered Mr A £50 and then £100 for the distress caused. But given how long the matter had 
been ongoing, and the repeated assurances that the matter has been resolved proving 
incorrect, I said I thought it would be fair for Santander to pay Mr A additional 
compensation to what it had offered and to ensure the incorrect information was now 
removed.
So, to resolve the complaint I said Santander should;
Arrange, with all credit reference agencies to which it reports information, for the 
search of Mr As credit file it conducted in August 2019 to be deleted. This needs 
to be an additional request to those made previously as Mr A has evidenced that 
this information has not been amended as of June 2020.
Confirm that the association is also to be deleted to any credit reference 
agencies that it has not already contacted.
Send Mr A a letter summarising these actions and the dates on which 
these amendments were requested for future reference.
Pay Mr A £250 for the trouble and upset its actions have caused. If the offer 
previously made by Santander has been paid to Mr A this can be deducted from 
the overall figure. However, in the case of cheque payments, only if these have 
been cashed.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr A said he was happy with my decision but still had reservations that Santander would 
comply with it. He also confirmed hed previously cashed a cheque for £50 from Santander 
so acknowledged this would be deducted from the total amount recommended.
Santander indicated that it had begun taking steps to carry out the work Id suggested  
suggesting it agreed with my decision  but said it had received differing responses from 
the various credit reference agencies about being able to locate the information that 
needed correcting. It also said its records confirmed £50 had previously been successfully 
paid to Mr A so it understood what was left to pay, in line with my decision, was a further 
£200.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties are broadly in agreement with the findings I made in my provisional 
decision, and havent provided any new information, Im not minded to depart from them. 
So, I still think that the complaint should be upheld.
Santander has highlighted the different responses it has apparently already received from 
credit reference agencies, indicating some have had difficulty locating the information to be 
deleted. This could indicate that some have already removed the information in question. 
But it may also indicate that Santander hasnt been clear enough in confirming exactly what 
information should be deleted. With this in mind Id expect it to get in touch with all of the 
credit reference agencies again and very clearly confirm what information should no longer 
be reported. This may require manual intervention, rather than being done through an automated reporting process. And I think its reasonable Santander do this, given that I 
think it should not have reported this information to begin with.
Turning to Mr As point about his concerns that Santander will not comply with my decision 
 I understand why Mr A feels this way. During our investigation hes been told a couple of 
times that his credit file would be corrected but this hasnt happened. But as Ive said 
Santander has indicated it has already begun to do what I suggested. Which will hopefully 
provide Mr A some peace of mind. And the reason Ive recommended that Santander write 
to Mr A confirming the action taken and when is again to confirm that it has been done. The 
only further point I can add is that, in the event he accepts my final decision, it becomes 
legally binding on both him and Santander.
As far as the payment for the trouble and upset caused by Santanders actions, as both 
parties agree that £50 has already been paid to Mr A, I think it is fair that this be deducted 
from the total sum recommended (£250) and that Santander be required to just pay the 
remaining amount (£200).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr As complaint.
Santander UK Plc should;
Arrange, with all credit reference agencies to which it reports information, for the 
search of Mr As credit file it conducted in August 2019 to be deleted. This request 
needs to be clear and allow the credit reference agencies to identify the information 
to be removed and should be in addition to any previous requests.
Confirm, again in a clear new request, that the association is also to be deleted to 
any credit reference agencies that it has not already contacted.
Send Mr A a letter summarising these actions and the dates on which these 
amendments were requested for future reference.
Pay Mr A £200 for the trouble and upset its actions have caused, in addition to the 
£50 he has already received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman