DRN-2288418
The complaint
Mr A  on behalf of Company H  complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) unfairly declined his claim for legal expenses insurance.
RSA use intermediaries to help administer their legal expenses insurance on their behalf, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr A submitted a claim under Company Hs legal expenses policy in September 2017, for 
assistance in defending an employment claim being brought against the company.
RSA appointed their panel solicitors (Firm L) to conduct a legal assessment, but Mr A 
complained as he was not happy with the quality of the solicitors advice or investigation into 
his dispute. He does not believe they considered all the necessary evidence, which resulted 
in them incorrectly concluding that his defence of the claim had poor prospects of success, 
such that he should offer to settle the claim. 
Mr A subsequently appointed his own solicitor who came into possession of an audio 
recording of the employee, and said that his claim had much stronger prospects of success 
than that predicted by Firm L. The employee eventually withdrew her case and Mr A was left 
with around £9,000 in legal fees to pay, which he says should be covered by RSA for failing 
to indemnify his claim in the first place.
Our investigator did not think RSA had acted unreasonably by relying on Firm Ls legal 
advice, so she didnt think the claim had been declined unfairly. But she noted that Mr A 
wasnt informed that he could submit further evidence for his claim to be reconsidered, so 
she awarded £200 compensation. RSA agreed and had nothing further to add. But Mr A 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it, but only in part.
Mr As concerns centre predominantly around the quality of the advice and service provided 
by the solicitors  i.e. their opinion that his claim had poor prospects of success and their 
alleged failure to consider a CCTV recording. But RSA are the legal expenses insurance 
provider, not the suitably qualified legal expert dealing with the case. As such, our role is to 
assess the insurers handling of the claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether 
theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably and dealt with the claim fairly. This service is 
unable to consider the quality of legal advice or the actions of a law firm as this falls under 
the remit of the Legal Ombudsman  which is the appropriate body to consider a complaint 
against Firm L should Mr A wish to pursue one.
What I can consider, however, is whether it was reasonable for RSA to rely on Firm Ls 
advice. Generally speaking, an insurer is entitled to rely on the advice of its appointed legal 
professionals unless that advice is patently wrong, such that even a lay person would 
identify that it wasnt reasonable to rely on it. 
Mr A says that Firm L failed to request or consider the CCTV footage of the incident 
involving his employee. But even if this were the case, I dont think this renders the 
assessment patently wrong. The solicitors conducted the assessment based on what Mr A 
had told them (including what he said the CCTV footage showed) but still concluded that the 
tribunal would likely take a dim view of how Mr As employee was treated.
I appreciate that Mr As solicitors subsequently concluded that his defence did hold sufficient 
prospects. But this was seemingly based on further evidence in the form of a recording 
coming to light after Firm L had conducted their legal assessment, which they did not have 
access to at the time. And even though Mr As own solicitor reached a different opinion, this 
still doesnt mean that Firm Ls legal assessment was patently wrong or so flawed that it was 
unreasonable for RSA to rely on. So I do not consider that RSA unreasonably declined the 
claim at the time based on the advice they had been given.
When Mr A was told that his claim would not be covered under his policy, RSA  through its 
authorised representatives  told him that his options were to either settle or instruct his own 
solicitors to defend him (or alternatively defend himself). However, they failed to tell him that 
he could challenge Firm Ls legal assessment, or that he could submit further evidence in 
order for his claim to be reconsidered.
However, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to direct RSA to now cover Mr As 
legal costs just because they failed to tell him he could submit further evidence. The policy 
sets out that the onus is on the policyholder to satisfy the insurer that there are reasonable 
prospects of success, so when further evidence later came to light which made a significant 
difference to his defence, I think Mr A ought to have known he could have submitted this to 
the insurer to reconsider. But he did not do so, and neither did he attempt to make a 
retrospective claim with RSA when his own solicitor proposed it on 13 April 2018.  
So I do not think there is any fair and reasonable basis in which RSA can fairly be held liable 
for the legal costs Mr A has incurred with his own solicitor. But I do agree that their failure to 
tell him of the option to submit a contrary legal assessment/further evidence represents poor 
handling of the claim on the part of the insurer. So it is on this basis that I uphold Mr As 
complaint in part. The investigator recommended an award of £200 for the inconvenience 
caused in order to put things right, which I also consider to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay £200 to Company H for the inconvenience caused by their handling of 
its claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A  on behalf of 
Company H  to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman