DRN-1131627
The complaint
Mr K has complained that information relating to his mothers account was recorded against 
his loan account with Bamboo Limited. Hes also complained that his information was made 
available to his mother, when she checked her account. 
What happened
Mr K took out a loan with Bamboo Limited. When he logged into the account he noticed that 
additional information belonging to his mother had been included on his account. In addition 
to her name, address and date of birth, details of her old loan, previous applications and 
salary information were displayed. Mr Ks mother also noticed that she could see the same 
details relating to his loan, when she logged into her account. 
Mr K lives with his mother and says that disclosure of the loan to her has caused upset to 
both of them. He says his mother was disappointed to find out he had a loan, and he felt that 
he had to justify to her why he took it out.
Mr K complained to Bamboo Limited about this. They investigated his complaint and 
responded on 23 July 2019, not upholding the complaint. They offered a goodwill payment of 
£50 each to Mr K and his mother but said they didnt agree it was their fault that Mr K and his 
mother could see each others details.
Bamboo Limited explained that when an applicant applies for a loan they are required to 
create an account and the username is their email address. They then have to enter a 
unique password, and an account is created using the email address provided. Theyve 
explained that if a new loan application was made by a different party using the same 
address, their system wouldnt permit the new application, because the password would be 
unknown to the new user. Bamboo Limited said they rely on individuals keeping their 
accounts secure, to avoid that type of activity. So an account could only be accessed if the 
password was known or reset, both of which would require access to the email account.
Mr K didnt know the password, so he reset the password associated with his email address. 
Bamboo Limited said it would have been clear at that time, that a Bamboo account had 
already been created, and if it wasnt for Mr K he shouldnt have proceeded. Instead 
Bamboo Limited believes Mr K ought to have provided a unique email address for himself. 
They also said his mother could only log in and see his details, if hed given her the new 
password.
Bamboo Limited said they cant be responsible for the disclosing of information because Mr 
K and his mother chose to share the email address and password, which is something they 
have no control over. They added that the pre-contract documentation and loan 
documentation would have been emailed to that email address also, so even if Mr K and his 
mother couldnt see each others details online, they would have had access to that 
information by accessing the same email account. Bamboo Limited confirmed they were 
going to update their website to ensure that future applicants are aware that they must use a 
unique email address and not share their password with anyone else.
Mr K doesnt believe Bamboo Limiteds compensation offer takes into account the impact on 
his credit file his embarrassment that his mother knows he has a loan, causing a GDPR 
breach and not fixing their website. He feels that compensation of at least £300 each, would 
be more appropriate.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and issued his view in September 2019, not 
upholding the complaint. He said that he couldnt reasonably say Bamboo Limited had done 
anything wrong here, because the email address used to create the account was accessible 
by both Mr K and his mother. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view. He felt that they key point our investigator had 
missed was that both he and his mother now know information about each other that they 
didnt want to be shared. He also explained again, why he thought Bamboo Limiteds 
systems should prevent this situation from occurring. Mr K requested an ombudsmans 
decision on his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent specifically commented on every point Mr K has made, as Ive focussed on the 
things that are material to the outcome  but I have carefully considered them when making 
my final decision. 
The key issue that seems to have upset Mr K, is that information personal to him, and his 
mother, has been disclosed to the other, without their explicit consent. Mr K feels that 
Bamboo Limited should have safeguards in place to prevent this from happening. 
However, having considered all of the available evidence, Im satisfied that Bamboo Limited 
did have safeguards in place, but Mr K and his mother overrode those safeguards by sharing 
an email address and password. Ordinarily, requiring users to set up an account with their 
own email address and password, would be sufficient to ensure that only they could access 
the information relating to the account. But where individuals share this information with a 
third party, as has happened here, through no fault of the financial business, that information 
can be readily accessed by the third party. In this case the information referred to by Mr K 
was available online and in the documentation that Bamboo Limited had emailed to the 
account. As both Mr K and his mother had access to that account, then it follows they would 
have access to that information. 
Its clear to me that Mr K and his mother have obtained some personal information about 
each other and this has caused them some upset. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
indicate that Bamboo Limited was responsible for this. 
Mr K has also suggested that his credit file has been impacted, but he hasnt provided any 
information to support that suggestion. So, Im not able to consider that element of his 
complaint any further.
I know Mr K feels very strongly about this issue, but I dont believe Bamboo Limited have 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bamboo 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman