DRN-2969796
The complaint
 Miss S complains that Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) took too long 
to repair her car. She would like compensation to cover loss of earnings, extra insurance and 
for the distress and inconvenience
.
What happened
 Miss S says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with MBFS in September 2018 for a 
new car. She says she had problems with the car in January 2020. The car needed a new 
engine control unit (ECU) and wiring loom.
She says she isnt happy it took over four months for the car to be repaired and that she had 
to pay to insure a courtesy car during that time.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that whilst there was an issue with the 
car this was more likely to be down to wear and tear since Miss S had had the car for fifteen 
months and driven over 60,000 before there was a problem.  As he didnt find MBFS 
responsible for the issue with the car he didnt feel it was liable for any costs incurred 
because of the issues. He felt MBFSs offer of £250 gesture of goodwill for her overall 
experience was fair.
MBFS accepted this view but Miss S didnt. She said the issues with the car arose two days 
after it was serviced so she wondered if that was the problem. She said she couldnt afford 
to have the car in the garage for repairs as she had already suffered a loss of income due to 
the pandemic. And she couldnt afford the extra insurance, nor did she understand why she 
should have to pay insurance when the car was being repaired.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He did ask if Miss S had 
any evidence of the service caused the problems she had 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When issues arise within six months of an agreement being taken out, we usually say its 
the business responsibility to show if any issues were present or developing at the point of 
sale and if so to address those.
When issues arise more than six months after an agreement has been taken out, we usually 
say its down to the consumer to show if there are any issues for which the business is 
responsible.
I appreciate Miss Ss agreement was for a new car and as such I think she could reasonably 
expect it to be fault free for some time. But thats not to say that faults dont occur. Miss S 
had the car for fifteen months before the issues arose and she had driven for over 60,000 
miles. If I have understood correctly, even though the agreement was in her name, she uses 
the car for business purposes, as such its likely to be subject to more wear and tear.
Miss S has told us she thinks there might be an issue with the service she had on the car as 
the problems arose just after. But she hasnt given us any evidence of this. Or any evidence 
to show the faults were ones for which MBFS was responsible for. 
I understand the repair carried out on the car was at no cost to Miss S as it was fully covered 
under her warranty. 
I appreciate it took four months for Miss Ss car to be repaired  from January 2020 to May 
2020. MBFS has explained it needed advice from its technical team which took some time. 
And the business was closed for two months due to the pandemic.
Whilst I agree with Miss S that four months is a long time for a car to be repaired, I think 
MBFs explanation is a reasonable one. And as I understand it Miss S did have use of a 
courtesy car during that time. But MBFS has also offered £250 compensation which I think is 
reasonable compensation for the time she was without her car.
I appreciate Miss S isnt happy she had to pay to insure one of the courtesy cars she had. 
And she says she suffered a loss of earnings during this time although she hasnt evidenced 
this . But she has also told us she couldnt work because of the pandemic which, given the 
nature of her work, would be understandable. 
Unfortunately, as I havent any grounds to say the fault with the car was one that MBFS was 
responsible for I have to agree with our investigators view that MBFS isnt responsible for 
any costs incurred because of the work needed on the car. 
Miss S has told us it has been difficult financially not being able to work and I do appreciate 
that. We do expect businesses to respond positively and sympathetically if consumers are 
having problems making payments. So, if this is the case, Miss S should contact MBFS to 
see if she can agree a mutually acceptable way to manage her payments..
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Mercedes-Benz Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay Miss 
S £250 compensation for the time taken to repair her car
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman