DRN-2868468
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in March 
2003 by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
Mr and Mrs H appear to have been aware the AGA was optional in 2003 as theyve 
explained they took it out for the benefits, implying theyd previously had a fee free account, 
and they downgraded to a fee free account a few months later. A year later in May 2004 they 
upgraded their account to an AGA again. 
Mr and Mrs H have said that they were told they had to buy the AGA to get future lending, 
but there is no evidence that they ever took that lending out with NatWest.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were aware the AGA was optional, and 
they chose to take it out on both occasions.
I can see no evidence, such as an assessment of their circumstances, that NatWest 
recommended the AGA to Mr and Mrs H or advised them to take it out. And this service is 
aware that NatWests usual practise at this time was to sell AGAs on a non-advised basis.
So, I think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale. This means NatWest 
was not required to check the AGA was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, it only had to provide 
them with enough information to make an informed decision if they wanted the AGA or not.
And I think it did. I say this because Nat West was trying to sell the AGA to Mr and Mrs H, so 
I think its more likely than not that it told them a lot about it. And Mr and Mrs H seem to have 
been aware of the AGAs cost and benefits as they downgraded within a few months after 
the initial sale and then upgraded again a year later. Nat West has also provided evidence 
that much later in 2013, Mr and Mrs H registered a phone for the AGAs insurance cover. 
And over the years NatWest sent Mr and Mrs H copious correspondence reminding them of 
the benefits and asking them to check the AGA was still right for them.
Mr and Mrs H have sent in a letter they received from NatWest in 2006 as evidence that they 
didnt want the AGA. Ive looked at it carefully and, in my view, it does show that a 
conversation was taking place about the AGA, and that Mr and Mrs H may not have been 
using all the benefits up to that point. But it also shows that NatWest was encouraging the 
conversation and explaining to Mr and Mrs H what their options were. I cant see that 
NatWest has in any way refused to review or downgrade the account, and this service has 
no evidence of NatWest doing that to other customers at this time. I also cant see any 
evidence that Mr and Mrs H asked to downgrade again over the subsequent many years 
they held the AGA.
So, I think its more likely than not that after the conversation in 2006, Mr and Mrs H decided 
to continue with the AGA because they wanted to.
And overall, although I know that Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed, I think it its more likely 
than not that NatWest has not done anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman