DRN-4086058
The complaint
Mr N and Ms M say that Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business (Simply Business) 
misled them about accidental damage cover under a landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N and Ms M took out a landlord insurance policy through Simply Businesss website, 
which included accidental damage cover. They later made a claim to the insurer after a 
tenant caused damage to the property. The insurer turned down the claim and said the 
damage was due to unfinished DIY which wasnt accidental. It said Mr N and Ms M didnt 
hold contents insurance so they couldnt claim for damage to the carpets. 
Mr N and Ms M complained to Simply Business. They said the information on its website had 
wrongly led them to believe that, if they took out accidental damage cover, they could claim 
for holes in walls made by a tenant, or damage to carpets. 
Simply Business didnt agree that its website had been misleading. Mr N and Ms M brought 
a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the website had 
provided Mr N and Ms M with general information about accidental damage cover and hadnt 
been misleading.
Mr N and Ms M didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Simply Business had a responsibility to provide Mr N and Ms M with information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr N and Ms M have referred to an extract from Simply Businesss website that they said 
they relied on when taking out accidental damage cover. This said: 
Accidental damage insurance can cover the cost of replacing or repairing part of your rental 
property if an accident happens, for example if a tenant spills wine on your carpet, or makes 
a hole in your wall when DIY goes wrong
I agree with our investigator that this is only general information about what accidental 
damage insurance can cover, and doesnt provide policy specific information. The actual 
cover provided will depend on the policy taken out, and any decision over whether to pay a 
claim would need to be made by the insurer, based on its policy terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at Simply Businesss website as it was around the time that Mr N and Ms M took 
out the policy. If Mr N and Ms M had clicked on a link that was within the above extract, 
further information was provided about accidental damage cover. This also advised the 
applicant to make sure they had read and understood any exclusions in the policy, and it 
confirmed they could read the policy documents before purchase. 
Mr N and Ms M didnt take out contents insurance cover, and so they couldnt claim for the 
damage to the carpets. They said they thought damage to carpets would be covered 
because of the accidental damage extract Ive quoted above.  
Although Simply Business didnt give Mr N and Ms M any advice, it was still required to give 
them sufficient information about the policy so they could make an informed decision.
Simply Businesss website at the time explained that accidental damage could be covered 
under buildings insurance or contents insurance. Further information was provided on the 
website about the differences between buildings and contents cover, and this explained that 
carpets are usually covered under contents insurance. 
Im satisfied that Simply Business provided Mr N and Ms M with sufficient information about 
contents insurance cover for them to make an informed decision about this. Im not 
persuaded that the general information about accidental damage cover would have led them 
to believe that by taking out buildings insurance cover only, they could also claim for any 
damage to carpets.
Simply Business provided Mr N and Ms M with a policy schedule which confirmed the details 
of the cover theyd taken out, as well as the policy terms. Im satisfied these documents 
contained sufficient information about the cover theyd taken out, and made it clear that they 
hadnt taken out contents insurance.
Overall, I dont find that Simply Business gave Mr N and Ms M misleading information about 
accidental damage cover. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman