DRN-4295626
The complaint
Ms L complains that she was not able to gain access to her ISA account with Clydesdale 
Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money.
What happened
Ms L opened a 1 Year Fixed Rate ISA account with Virgin Money in July 2022. Between 
December 2022 and April 2023 Ms L attempted to access her account online but was not 
receiving the one-time passcode (OTP) on her mobile phone. So, she was not able to 
access her online banking. Because of this, Ms L says that she couldnt move the funds in 
her ISA to a different account with a better rate of interest.
Ms L complained to Virgin Money about her issues receiving the OTP, the delays she 
experienced waiting to discuss her complaint and her frustrations with their online chat help 
system. Virgin Money says that Ms L entered an incorrect password for her online banking in 
December 2022, so it was not Virgin Moneys fault Ms L was unable to log in. But Virgin 
Money says it understands she was unable to receive the OTP following this so was unable 
to log on, and it also acknowledges the delays Ms L experienced in bringing her complaint to 
it.
  
Virgin Money upheld her complaint and offered her £100 as compensation. Ms L was not 
happy with this response. She says Virgin Money should also pay her the interest lost as a 
result of her not being able to move her money to a higher interest paying account. So, she 
brought the complaint to us. Our investigator considered Ms Ls complaint but didnt feel that 
anything further was due.
Ms L was not happy with our investigators response to her complaint, so it has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money has provided evidence to show Ms L entered an incorrect password for her 
online account in December 2022. So, in line with Virgin Moneys process in these 
circumstances, she required an OTP to regain access online. I think this was reasonable in 
the circumstances as its in line with Virgin Moneys usual process here. Steps like these are 
common in the industry to help protect the security of customers accounts.
Ms L requested this several times between December 2022 and February 2023. Ms L says 
the OTP was not received on her phone until a later attempt in April 2023  and she says 
that she had the same phone on the same network, so this must be due to a problem with 
Virgin Moneys systems. Ms L also says when she called to complain about this, she 
experienced long call wait times and had frustrations with the online chat help system. Virgin 
Money upheld her complaint and offered her £100 in compensation. I think what Virgin 
Money have offered in the circumstances are fair. I say this because some time and effort 
are expected when bringing a complaint. And the issue about receiving an OTP is now 
resolved - as Ms L confirms she has been able to receive the OTP and log into her account 
when she tried this in April 2023. So, I think £100 is a fair amount of compensation for the 
loss of internet access between December and April 2023 and the delays experienced in 
making a complaint.
Ms L says that if she had access to her account, she wouldve moved the money to a higher 
paying interest account. However, Ive read the Key Facts documents for her ISA account, 
and I can see that to move her money to another ISA account or another savings account 
with another provider, Ms L wouldve needed to contact her new provider to arrange this. 
Then, once Virgin Money had received this instruction, the transfer would be actioned. But I 
dont think being unable to log on to her Virgin Money account online prevented her from 
arranging a transfer with her potential new account provider. 
Ms L also had the option to manage her money via telephone banking. Ms L says she 
couldnt remember her account number or sort code and she didnt like using telephone 
banking as she prefers to see things herself online. I understand not being able to manage 
her account in her preferred method wouldve been frustrating for her, but Ms L did have 
alternative methods to complete a transfer if this was important to her.       
So, I dont think Ms L has lost out on any interest she couldve earnt by moving her money to 
another account as I dont think she was prevented from doing this.
My final decision
Virgin Money has already made an offer to pay Ms L £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
 
So, my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, should pay Ms L 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman