DRN-3352072
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Everyday Loans Limited agreed to a loan hed applied for as he said it 
was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr B took out a £5,100 loan with Everyday, to be repaid over 24 months
with repayments of £336.45 a month. Mr B said the loan was to be used for debt 
consolidation. In August 2019 Mr B asked for an additional £2500, and Everyday 
consolidated Loan One and agreed to lend him £7510 payable over 42 months at £370.34 
each month.
Mr B said Everyday shouldnt have approved the loan as it wasnt affordable when all
his circumstances were taken into consideration. Mr B complained to Everyday as he didnt 
think theyd done enough to establish his true situation. Mr B said he couldnt afford the loan 
repayments, and Everyday had acted irresponsibly in lending to him.
Everyday said theyd carried out reasonable and proportionate checks that showed the loan
was affordable. Everyday said theyd checked Mr Bs bank statements, credit file, 
employment and payslip. They carried out an affordability assessment that showed Mr B had 
disposable income after considering his outgoings, so they deemed the loan to be 
affordable. Mr B wasnt happy with their response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Everydays checks were proportionate and reasonable. She said these 
showed Mr B had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. And 
didnt ask Everyday to do anything differently.
Mr B didnt agree, he said Everyday should have seen he was having to borrow to meet his 
credit commitments. And that he was also gambling. Mr B asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs complaint is that Everyday shouldnt have lent to him in August 2019. But in reaching 
my decision Ive also considered the initial loan lent in June 2019.  
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
B would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Mr B required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr B himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Mr B had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
him.
For the June 2019 loan of £5,100, Everyday considered Mr Bs credit file, employment and 
bank statements. Everyday said Mr Bs credit file didnt show he was having any difficulty in 
repaying his existing financial commitments. It showed hed a loan, three credit cards a mail 
order account, public utilities and a communications supplier. Everyday also saw Mr Bs 
bank statements for the two months prior to the loan, and a payslip for April 2019. And from 
this information they used a monthly income of  £3,601.19 based on his April payslip - 
£3452.12 and benefit income of £149.07 (calendar month).  Mr B paid a monthly rent of 
£1,350. His monthly credit commitments were £429.44. Everyday calculated that after 
inclusion of the new loan and a standard industry adjustment for day to day living costs, 
theyd calculated Mr B would have a disposable income of £188.30.  
Everyday understood the loan was to be used for consolidation of borrowing, and this would 
suggest Mr Bs credit commitments would be reduced. I know Mr B said he settled his active 
loan but not his credit cards. This would have seen his credit commitments determined by Everyday to reduce from £429.44 to £82.44, which should have given Mr B more income at 
his disposal. Based on their affordability assessment Everyday deemed the loan was 
affordable.
Ive looked at the information Everyday would have seen, including Mr Bs bank statements. 
He provided two accounts, a bill account and the account his salary was paid into. And 
Everydays assessment seems reasonable and in line with this information. Mr B has said 
hed a payday loan of £1,000 which he said was paid into the same account as his salary. 
The bank statements Mr B provided dont show this transaction being paid into the account. 
But I can see transfers from the account into his bill account around this time that add up to 
about this amount. But I can see that there were regular transfers going to and from both 
accounts throughout the month. So, I dont think this would have appeared to be unusual 
activity. 
Mr B also wanted the loan to consolidate his existing debt. So, I dont think Everyday acted 
irresponsibly lending to him on the checks they did, And I cant say that Everyday did 
anything wrong by not taking into consideration something they were unaware of.  
Mr B asked for a top up loan very quickly after the initial loan was agreed. So,again, Ive 
looked at whether Everyday carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr B. 
The loan was for £7510 as it consolidated the original loan of £5100. The monthly 
repayments were £370.34 repayable over 42 months. Everydays affordability assessment 
used a salary of £3330.33 and monthly benefit of £147.09, in total £3,479.40. Mr Bs 
outgoings, rent - £1,350, credit - £584.92 (including the £336.45 for Loan One and £156.73 
for a £1,000 loan) and day to day livings costs estimated at £1,114, with the adjustment for 
the previous loan amount of £336.45 and the new Everyday loan amount  of £370.34, 
Everyday calculated Mr B had a disposable income of £396.50. Everyday took from this 
calculation that the loan was affordable.
Ive considered the checks they made, and Mr Bs income is accurately reflected in the 
assessment. Mr Bs credit commitments are more than I can see from his credit file and bank 
statements, as I cant see the £156.43 payment thats been included. Everyday has also 
allowed £1,114 for day to day livings costs and again this seems to be higher than the living 
costs evident from Mr Bs bank statements and credit file. Again, there are a number of 
transfers between Mr Bs two bank accounts but I havent seen anything to raise concerns 
about unusual spending. 
Mr B has referred to some gambling transactions. And I can see in April 2019 that there are 
gambling transactions on his account but these appear to be isolated transactions and not 
evidence that Mr B was struggling with compulsive spending.
I know Mr B will be disappointed in my decision but the information, and evidence, that Mr B 
gave to Everyday suggested that he could sustainably afford the loan repayments. I think 
Everyday was entitled to rely on that information and conclude that they should lend to Mr B. 
So, I dont think the loan was lent irresponsibly.
I understand Mr Bs personal circumstances have changed. I can see hes made Everyday 
aware of his financial difficulties and that he is working with a debt counselling service. I 
expect Everyday to work with Mr B in a positive and sensitive way while he goes through 
these difficult times.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman