DRN-2496556
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y have complained about their home insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because 
it has avoided the policy (treated it has though it has never existed) and, by association, 
declined their claim for flood damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y arranged cover with Ageas via their broker in July 2019. As part of the 
application, their broker was asked to agree, on their behalf, that the premises has not 
previously been damaged as a result of flooding. Agreement was given and the policy was 
put in place. 
Policy paperwork was then provided and this included a list of key statements on which the 
cover had been based. The list did not include the statement agreed to at application. But 
did contain the following: The property or grounds have not previously flooded.
In January 2019 the drains at Mr and Mrs Ys home backed up into their downstairs 
wetroom. Significant damage was caused including in the adjoining hall and nearby kitchen. 
Ageas was notified of the loss. It appointed contractors and a loss adjuster straightaway. 
The loss adjuster was told by Mr Y that the drains had backed up before  but this pre-dated 
the installation of the wetroom and water had never entered the home, the escaping water 
had dispersed naturally down the driveway. Strip-out and drying works had begun. The loss 
adjuster recommended they continue and whilst the loss adjusters report  which included 
details about the previous flooding  was shared with Ageas, the claim was agreed with 
authorisation being given for the loss adjuster to proceed. 
Sixteen days later Ageas decided there was an issue of policy liability here in respect of the 
previous flooding. It said this had not been notified to it when the policy was arranged. A 
letter reserving its rights on the claim was issued to Mr and Mrs Y. Ageas later avoided the 
policy because, it said, the flooding should have been disclosed to it, and if it had that would 
have affected how it would have offered cover for the policy. It explained that it would have 
had to pass the risk for flooding to another provider  and that type of risk couldnt be 
checked or arranged for retrospectively. Therefore, it now had no option but to avoid the 
policy and, by association, its liability for the claim would fall away.
Mr and Mrs Y were unhappy. Their broker raised various arguments on their behalf. When 
Ageas wouldnt change its mind a complaint was made to us. Our investigator initially felt it 
should be upheld, but on review changed his mind. Ageas was not happy with the initial 
findings, and Mr and Mrs Y disagreed with the revised view. The complaint was passed to 
me for a decision to be made. 
I explained provisionally that I felt there were just two simple, key reasons why Ageas 
decision to avoid the cover was, in my view, unfair and unreasonable. In short, they were 
that Ageas had entered into a contract for repair and that Mr and Mrs Y had, in my view, 
answered the question actually asked by Ageas correctly. Mr and Mrs Y said they had 
nothing to add in response to my findings. Ageas objected on both counts. Ive summarised 
its responses as follows:
Insurers are under pressure to deal with claims in a timely manner, and they look to 
assist the policyholder in the first 24/48 hours of the claim, not least to mitigate claim 
costs.
Any delay at this time would be unfair, would negatively impact the claim and would likely 
result in a complaint with this service awarding compensation.
Insurers cant do all the necessary checks at the point the loss is notified and in many 
instances issues for concern dont come to light until after a loss adjuster has interviewed 
the policyholder.
It sent a copy of, what it referred to as, a current ruling from this service which is in its 
favour. It believes the situation is similar to that subject of this complaint, so my decision 
should reflect those findings.
The question it expected the broker to ask Mr and Mrs Y was the same as that which 
appeared on the statement of fact.
Mr and Mrs Ys broker had spoken to its agent before arranging cover and confirmed 
there were no material facts to disclose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive copied my provisional findings below, along with my responses to Ageas objections. For 
ease of reference Ive added titles.
contract for repair
I said provisionally  Ageas file shows that once it became aware of an issue that might 
affect its liability, it continued to act as though cover was in place and the claim was 
accepted. This service has long held that if an insurer acts like this, whilst being aware of 
key knowledge such as was known here, then it cant fairly, later avoid the policy on the 
basis of that knowledge. So I think that Ageas actions during this claim actually effectively 
preclude it from being able to avoid the policy.
I dont dispute that a prudent, fair insurer should act in an efficient and timely manner, taking 
into account the needs of its policyholder in the circumstances at hand. But those 
circumstances do include anything relevant to policy liability. Of key importance here is that 
Ageas, having been informed of a key policy issue, continued the contract for repair it had 
entered into when it began to strip and dry the property. The ruling Ageas has shared with 
us is a view issued by an investigator. The complaint is not similar to this one, not least as it 
does not, according to the details shared in that document, involve Ageas having entered 
into a contract for repair. Ageas objections dont persuade me my provisional findings in this 
respect were unfair or unreasonable.
the question asked
I said provisionally  In the event that Ageas can persuade me otherwise, Ive considered 
what Ageas asked to be told about when the policy was arranged. Ageas will be aware that 
a decision about whether or not a prospective policyholder is seen to have misled it during 
the application process hinges heavily on whether they were informed in a clear enough way 
what information it was the insurer wanted to be told about. 
Here I see that whilst Ageas actions and its underwriting information shared with this service 
show it wanted to receive information about previous flooding at someones property 
(including where only the grounds were affected), that is not what the statement the broker 
was asked to agree to referred to. The statement was pitched much more narrowly than that. It used the word premises without reference to the grounds. Further it asked for agreement 
that premises have not been damaged by flooding, not just that they have not been 
flooded/suffered flooding. From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs Y correctly agreed to the 
statement put to them.
Its my view that Ageas failed to clearly communicate to Mr and Mrs Y what it actually was it 
wanted to know about. Therefore, Im not persuaded that it can be said that Mr and Mrs Y 
did mislead Ageas. As such, even were I persuaded that Ageas hadnt acted in such a way 
during the claim so as to waive its right to revert to considering the wider issue of policy 
liability, I wouldnt be minded to think its act of avoidance could reasonably stand. 
I note Ageas is now saying the question asked was the same. But its provided no further 
proof to show this. In contrast, prior to the complaint being passed to me, Ageas agent 
shared with us the question it said it had asked Mr and Mrs Ys broker to respond to. That is 
as set out above and is materially different to the question that Ageas then used to 
underwrite the cover. It was only after the broker had answered the agents question that the 
two spoke. I remain of the view that Mr and Mrs Y, via the question asked of their broker by 
Ageas agent, were asked to confirm their premises had not been damaged by flooding and 
they gave an accurate answer. Mr and Mrs Y did not, in my view, in response to the question 
asked of them, mislead Ageas by not disclosing to it material information it had asked about.
in summary
I said provisionally  I think Ageas acted unfairly and unreasonably when it halted work at 
Mr and Mrs Ys property as it did. I understand that it had already stripped part of the 
wetroom, making it unusable and that, due to an accident, this is the only bathroom at the 
property which Mrs Y can use. I dont doubt this whole situation has been upsetting and 
inconvenient for them. 
Having reviewed the responses from both parties, I stand by my provisional findings. They 
are now the findings of this my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to: 
reinstate Mr and Mrs Ys policy on the basis it was offered before.
remove the record of the avoidance from its own and any industry databases
continue with the claim, completing any outstanding reinstatement work and, if 
Mr and Mrs Y have paid for any work to be done, reimburse their costs, plus interest* 
from the date they were incurred.
pay £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates 
stated. If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr and Mrs Y, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs Y a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out at 
putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021. Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman