DRN-2177531
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unreasonably refused to pay her claim 
under her pet policy.
What happened
Ms M insured her cat with Allianz on 27 May 2015. Before her policy started Ms M talked 
with Allianz over the phone and her cats previous ailments were discussed. As a result of 
this Allianz issued the policy for Ms Ms cat with a non-reviewable exclusion for the treatment 
of skin conditions. It also imposed other exclusions which arent relevant to this complaint.
Ms M said that after the policy started her cat developed food allergies in 2016 and this in 
turn caused hot spots on her cats skin. These hot spots needed vet treatment so Ms M 
made two claims to Allianz in November 2019. Allianz said that because skin conditions 
were excluded, it couldnt pay her claims.
Ms M complained and said because these issues were caused by a food allergy which isnt 
excluded, Allianz should pay her claims. Allianz disagreed so Ms M brought her complaint to 
us. The investigator didnt think it should be upheld. Ms M disagreed so her complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Theres no dispute that Ms Ms policy for her cat contained a non-reviewable exclusion for 
skin conditions. It says the following:
Excluding claims resulting from or connected to skin disorders
So, this essentially means no claims for the cost of any treatment for her cats skin are 
covered. As the investigator detailed in his view, its also clear the exclusion was correctly 
imposed given Ms Ms cat has pre-existing skin problems before this policy started. And Ms 
M has said she accepts this several times in our correspondence with us and that she 
doesnt dispute the exclusions were properly imposed. 
Our role is to assess whether Allianz did anything wrong in refusing to pay Ms Ms under the 
terms and conditions of its policy with Ms M. And its clear her claims were do with treatment 
for hot spots on her cats skin. It doesnt matter what caused the hotspots, the claims were 
for treating her cats skin. So, in the first instance Allianz didnt do anything wrong because 
claims in relation to her cats skin are clearly excluded.
Ms M is of the view that I should be able to require Allianz to use its discretion to pay her 
claims, given the reason for these claims most likely comes from a food allergy. However, I 
dont have the ability to do that here and furthermore I dont consider its actually fair for me 
to do so.
Allianz has agreed to insure Ms Ms cat for the payment of her premium which is calculated 
on the basis of the exclusions it imposed on her policy bearing in mind the cats previous 
medical conditions. Insurers have the right to decide what risks they want to insure and what 
risks they dont. Theres nothing to show me the imposition of the exclusion in relation to the 
cats skin was wrongly imposed, therefore theres nothing to show me that it would be fair or 
reasonable for Allianz to pay Ms Ms claim given the exclusion for skin problems.
Ms M said her claims in relation to her cats vomiting caused by the food allergy was covered 
and since these skin problems are related to the food allergy they should be covered also. 
However, thats not how cover under insurance policies work when pre-existing conditions 
impose exclusions. If, for example Ms Ms cat had a pre-existing condition for gastro related 
illnesses instead of the skin conditions, her claim for vomiting wouldnt be covered but her 
claims for these hotspots would have probably been covered.  She is of the view that this 
approach is unreasonable, but I dont agree. This is because insurers do have the right to 
decide what they wont insure, and they set the premiums accordingly. So, in effect Ms M is 
paying the premium Allianz requires for cover which excludes skin problems. So, unless 
those skin exclusions are wrongly imposed theres no reasonable reason to expect such 
claims should be paid under the specific policy terms that exist between Ms M and Allianz.
Allianz also has regulatory duties to treat its customers fairly. This means treating all its 
customer the same in similar circumstances. So essentially that means it should only 
disregard Ms Ms exclusions on her policy if it did that for everyone who had exclusions on 
their policies. That clearly doesnt make any commercial sense at all as clearly this pet 
policy, which Ms M chose independently, doesnt provide cover for pre-existing conditions 
and clearly excludes them. The premiums are priced on this basis and Allianz has every 
entitlement to decide the risks it wants to cover too.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman