DRN-3391776
The complaint
Miss W complains about Snap Finance LTD and their decision to pursue her for payments 
relating to furniture she didnt receive.
What happened
Miss W ordered some furniture from Retailer A. And she paid for this furniture through 
finance provided by Snap. But the furniture Miss W ordered was sent to her previous 
address by Retailer A in error, so this furniture wasnt received.
Because of this, Miss W didnt make payments towards the finance agreement. But Snap 
continued to pursue her for payment, which she was unhappy with. So, Miss W raised a 
complaint.
Miss W didnt think Snap had acted fairly when pursuing her for payment as she hadnt 
received the furniture through no fault of her own. So, she wanted Snap to cease any further 
collection activity and to remove any adverse information reported to her credit file, as well 
as compensation for the upset shed been caused. Snap failed to resolve Miss Ws 
complaint, so she referred it to us.
Our investigator requested Snaps business file, to help them investigate the complaint. But 
Snap didnt provide this, instead only confirming that the loan had been closed and that any 
information relating to it had been removed from Miss Ws credit file. So, our investigator 
proceeded to investigate the complaint based on the evidence they had available. And 
having done so, they upheld it.
They thought it was reasonable to assume that Snap had accepted theyd acted unfairly 
when closing the loan and removing information from Miss Ws credit file. So, our 
investigator thought Snap should also pay Miss W £100 to recognise the upset shed been 
caused by Snaps actions. 
Miss W accepted this. But Snap didnt respond. As Snap didnt respond, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
In this situation, Snap havent provided our service with their business file, despite several 
requests. So, my decision is based on the information available to me and what I think is 
most likely to have happened with this taken into consideration.
I can see Snap confirmed to our investigator that the loan they provided Miss W has been 
closed and that any information reported to Miss Ws credit file has been removed. I dont 
think Snap wouldve taken this action if they thought theyd acted reasonably when pursuing 
Miss W for payment. So, based on the actions Snap have taken, I think its reasonable for 
me to assume that Snap have accepted they acted unfairly when pursuing Miss W for 
payment. So, I havent thought about this further. Instead, Ive thought about what I think 
Snap should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When deciding what I think Snap should do to put things right, any direction or award I make 
is intended to place Miss W back in the position she wouldve been in, had Snap acted fairly 
in the first instance.
In this situation, I think is Snap had acted fairly they wouldve closed the loan when it was 
made clear to them that Miss W hadnt received the furniture she ordered from Retailer A. 
And if theyd done this, I wouldnt have expected the loan to be reported to Miss Ws credit 
file.
The actions Snap have already taken place Miss W back in this position. But crucially, 
Snaps actions dont adequately recognise the upset Miss W wouldve been caused when 
she was pursued for payment and the inconvenience she wouldve been caused when 
engaging with Snap to try and rectify this.
Our investigator recommended that Snap pay Miss W £100 to recognise this upset and 
inconvenience, which Im aware Miss W accepted. I think this compensation amount is a fair 
one and in line with what I wouldve awarded, had it not already been put forward. So, I think 
Snap should pay Miss W £100 to recognise the upset shed been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Ws complaint about Snap Finance LTD and 
direct them to take the following action:.
Pay Miss W £100 to recognise the upset and inconvenience shed been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman