DRN-4193007
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled her request for a 
refund in respect of accommodation she paid for using her Lloyds debit card.
What happened
In November 2021 Miss C booked accommodation at a hotel in the Netherlands Ill call T via 
an agent Ill call B. She paid £1,182.84 directly to T using her Lloyds debit card. 
On 18 December 2021 The Netherlands announced that due to the spread of the Omicron 
variant of Covid-19 it would go into lockdown from 19 December 2021 until at least 14 
January 2022. The announcement on the Government of the Netherlands website said, all 
hospitality venues are closed, except for delivery and takeaway. 
Concerned about the situation and what this meant for her trip, Miss C contacted T. 
T told Miss C that her reservation was non-refundable and could not be cancelled free of 
charge. It said it could change the date of her stay, but shed need to get in touch with B to 
request this. 
Miss C made the decision not to travel. She said she contacted B to ask for a refund and B 
told her she was due one, but that she would have to go back to T to get it. 
Miss C said she didnt feel like she was getting anywhere with B and T, so she asked Lloyds 
to step in and help her get a refund.
Lloyds credited Miss Cs account with the sum of £1,182.84 in December 2021. Lloyds has 
said it explained the credit was temporary pending the result of an investigation, but Miss C 
said Lloyds didnt make this clear. 
Lloyds submitted a chargeback (a method of recovering funds paid to a supplier via the card 
scheme). Lloyds said this was defended by T on the basis the accommodation was available 
to Miss C to use and there were no refunds in the event of her cancellation or no-show. 
On 9 February 2022 Lloyds wrote to Miss C and explained the credit it gave would be 
debited again soon as T had provided a valid defence to the chargeback. This happened on 
23 February 2022. 
Miss C complained to Lloyds at this point. She said she was told by Lloyds in December 
2021 that the dispute with T was closed, and that Lloyds would not be retaking the credit 
applied to her account. She also re-iterated that she didnt receive the service from T and 
was promised a refund by B. 
In response to Miss Cs complaint Lloyds reiterated that T had provided a valid defence to 
the chargeback so there was nothing more it could do to help. Lloyds did however accept it 
had given false information about the status of the temporary credit and offered to pay Miss 
C compensation of £20.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response, Miss C referred her complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought Miss Cs complaint should be 
upheld. I said:
I am looking here at the actions of Lloyds and whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it handled Miss Cs request for help in getting her money back. 
This will take into account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier 
has acted, but there are also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank 
has to follow and its own obligations. 
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from a supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are 
resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with under 
the relevant card scheme rules. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time - usually 
around a month - for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the 
refund. And when a supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further 
representations by the cardholders bank, if it considers the supplier has raised a 
weak or invalid defence. If the parties still do not agree, the process allows for the 
issue to be decided by the card scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Here Lloyds did raise a chargeback, but it was defended by T. So, I need to think 
about whether Lloyds should reasonably have done more here. That means 
considering whether T submitted a valid defence fairly bringing the dispute to a close. 
Or whether its defence was weak and whether in light of this Lloyds should 
reasonably have done more. 
Lloyds raised the chargeback under the services not received dispute code in the 
card scheme rules and I agree this appears to have been the most relevant code in 
the circumstances. 
The code sets out that a chargeback may be raised where The Cardholder 
participated in the Transaction but the Cardholder or an authorized person did not 
receive the merchandise or services because the Merchant or Load Partner was 
unwilling or unable to provide the merchandise or services 
Miss C paid T for the accommodation using her Lloyds debit card and was the 
booking party. So, she clearly participated in the transaction. 
The Netherlands went into lockdown on 19 December 2021 and the press release on 
its website said this would last until at least 14 January 2021. The lockdown included 
the closure of hospitality venues and Ive not seen anything to suggest hotels were 
excluded from this. So, when Miss C was due to stay at the accommodation, T was 
not allowed to supply it to her. In other words, T was unable to provide the services. 
On the face of it therefore Ms T appeared to have had valid grounds to raise a 
chargeback. 
Lloyds has supplied a copy of the paperwork it said T submitted to it in its defence to 
the chargeback. I cant see that T specifically commented on why it was defending 
the chargeback within this information. Instead T appears to have enclosed several 
screenshots from its record of Miss Cs booking. Within this information is: 
A reference to the cancellation policy of T insofar a guest will be charged the total price of the reservation if they cancel at any time. 
confirmation that T classified Miss Cs booking as a no-show and not a      
cancellation by Miss C. 
a communication T had with Miss C where it told her the reservation was non-
refundable and where it explained it could offer a change of dates but she 
would need to contact B to request a date change. 
Ive seen nothing within this information that suggests a valid defence to the 
chargeback had been provided. Ts cancellation policy of no refunds related to 
situations where Miss C cancelled. But Miss C didnt cancel her booking, T was 
unable to provide it because of a Government lockdown. So, the no-refund policy 
wasnt relevant to the circumstances of the dispute. 
Neither do I think it could be said that by offering a change of date, the services were 
still available for Miss C to use. In making this finding Ive consulted the card 
schemes guidance for covid-19 related chargebacks published around May 2020. 
This set out that to prove a merchant offered a reasonable alternative:
the merchant must also provide a credit voucher, credit note, or other 
reasonable alternative consistent with the terms and conditions of purchase 
between the merchant and cardholder. Failure to provide a reasonable 
alternative gives the issuer dispute rights under Dispute Condition 13.1
Services Not Provided or Merchandise Not Received, as the services were 
not provided, unless the government prohibition explicitly negated the right to 
a refund or other alternative. 
From what I have seen of Ts terms, there was nothing that permitted it to offer a 
change of date instead of a refund in circumstances where it was unable to provide 
its services. So, the alternative being offered was not consistent with the terms of 
purchase between Miss C and T. In other words, there was no reasonable alternative 
on offer. In accordance with the guidance therefore, such a failure gave dispute rights 
under the services not received dispute code. 
Lloyds said T referred Miss C to B to change the date of her stay but said she doesnt 
appear to have done this. Im assuming Lloyds is suggesting Miss C didnt attempt to 
resolve things with the merchant first  it was another condition of the dispute code 
that Miss C do this before attempting a chargeback. 
Miss C said she did contact B, and was promised a refund, but was told to go back to 
T to get it. In any event however, although Miss C booked with B, she paid T. And Bs 
terms explained that Miss C contracted with T directly and was subject to its terms. 
So, it appears in this case that T was the appropriate entity to provide a refund. It 
never did this in circumstances where Miss C had asked it to. So, Im satisfied Miss C 
had attempted to resolve things with the merchant without success. 
With all the above in mind, it seems unlikely to me that T had provided a valid 
defence to the chargeback. It seems more likely that had Lloyds continued to pursue 
the chargeback, it ultimately would have succeeded given T was unable to provide its 
services to Miss C. 
So, Lloyds treated Miss C unfairly by accepting what looked to be a weak defence to 
the chargeback from T and not continuing to pursue it in circumstances where it 
appears it would have succeeded. With this in mind, I find it fair and reasonable in this case that Lloyds treat Miss C as 
if the chargeback had succeeded and pay her £1,182.84 plus interest from when it 
ended its pursuit of the chargeback and re-debited Miss Cs account in February 
2022. 
Lloyds agreed with the investigator that it should pay Miss C compensation of £100 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused her when it told her the temporary credit 
in her account was permanent. That seems fair compensation to me in the 
circumstances. If Lloyds has already paid the £20 it originally offered Miss C for this, 
it may deduct it from the £100.
Both Lloyds and Miss C said they agreed with my provisional decision so the complaint has 
been passed back to me to finalise matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Lloyds and Miss C have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in it.  
So, for the same reasons I gave in the extract of my provisional decision above, I find Lloyds 
should treat Miss C as if it had met her claim in February 2022 and pay her £1,182.84 plus 
interest and total compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.  
My final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint. To put things right Lloyds Bank PLC must:
pay Miss C £1,182.84 plus interest of 8% simple per year from 23 February 2022 
until the date of settlement*, and;
pay Miss C compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience (less £20 if it has 
already paid this to Miss C).
*If Lloyds Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman