DRN-2919024
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited have declined a claim she made under a building 
guarantee policy. 
What happened
The facts of the case are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 30 June 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Miss L instructed an independent engineer who concluded damage to the balcony 
guard rails had been caused by a defect in design and materials used. The report 
provided is detailed and gives rationale for the conclusion reached. Amtrust hasnt 
provided a report of a similar standing and as such, based on the evidence available 
to me, Im satisfied Miss L has established a defect exists which has caused physical 
damage to her property.
The policy provides cover for physical damage if it is caused by a defect in the 
design, workmanship, materials or components of the Structure or waterproof 
elements of Waterproof Envelope. The Structure is defined as including items, 
among others, such as load bearing parts of ceilings, floors, staircases and 
associated guard rails, walls and roofs, together with load bearing retaining walls as 
necessary for stability.
The claim relates to the guard rails on the balcony. I would consider a balcony to be 
load bearing as the floor is designed to be walked on. And as such, it should be 
something reasonably covered under the structure of the building.
Amtrusts argument here appears to be that the guard rails, where the damage 
occurred, arent specifically covered under the definition of structure and therefore 
Miss Ls claim should be declined.
The policy covers staircases and associated guardrails, Amtrusts position here is 
that only guard rails specifically associated with staircases are covered.
Ive considered this carefully, but I think Amtrust has taken a very narrow 
interpretation of the policy wording and as such, I believe on a fair and reasonable 
basis the balcony guard rails should be covered. The balcony guard rails have the 
same function as those on a staircase. And given that I would also conclude the 
balcony to be something that should reasonably be afforded cover under the policy, 
similar to a staircase, I think its associated guard rails should also be covered.
Putting things right
To put things right Amtrust should pay Miss L what it cost her to undertake the repairs. It 
should add interest to this amount at 8% simple per annum from the date she paid to the 
date of settlement.
However, Im minded to say that Amtrust is entitled to deduct the excess from this payment 
as it would have been correctly incurred as part of the claims process and forms part of the 
contract Miss L entered into.
I do recognise that Amtrusts decline of the claim meant Miss L didnt have access to her 
balcony for a longer period of time and also this would have caused her inconvenience. I 
therefore intend to direct Amtrust to pay Miss L £300 compensation to reflect this.
Both Miss L and Amtrust replied to say they accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again, and given both parties accepted my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from them.
So, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, I think Miss Ls complaint 
should be upheld.   
Putting things right
- Amtrust should pay Miss L what it cost her to undertake the repairs. It should add 
interest to this amount at 8% simple per annum from the date she paid to the date of 
settlement. Amtrust is entitled to deduct the excess from this payment.
- Amtrust should pay Miss L £300 compensation. 
  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited. I direct 
it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman