DRN-2445504
The complaint
Mr L and Mr T have complained about Health Shield Friendly Society Limiteds decision to
decline their claims under their health cash plan insurance policy for the cost of a health
screening.
What happened
Mr L and Mr T were members of the policy which was offered through Mr Ls employer. The
policy would reimburse Mr L and Mr T for certain costs they incurred for health treatment.
In 2018, Mr L and Mr T each made a claim for the cost of a health screening carried out by a
particular company (which Ill call M). Health Shield accepted the claims and paid them
each £100 towards the cost.
In 2019, Mr L and Mr T underwent the same screening and again made a claim to Health
Shield. This time, Health Shield declined the claims. It said the service for which Mr L and
Mr T had claimed was not a full health screening but simply a blood test and this was not
covered under the policy.
Mr L said to Health Shield that the service for which they had claimed had been exactly the
same as the previous year. Health Shield said that the previous years claims had been paid
in error.
Mr L complained to Health Shield about its decision to decline the 2019 claims. Heath Shield
issued a final response letter not upholding the complaint. It said that the previous years
claims had not been paid in error because it had received confirmation at the time from M
that a full health screen had taken place. It said that in 2019, however, the receipt which had
been provided was different and it had confirmed with M that only a blood test had taken
place.
Mr L and Mr T were unhappy at Health Shields response. They referred their complaint to
us. They said that although there was a slight difference in the receipts, the screening
process had been exactly the same in 2018 and 2019. Given that Health Shield had
accepted the claims in 2018, they couldnt understand why it was declining the claims in
2019.
During the investigation, Health Shield clarified that in its view the 2018 claims were not
eligible but had been paid based on wrong information provided to it by M.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy states that cover will be provided for a full health screening. The policy defines
this as follows:
a full medical check-up that may involve giving details of your and your familys 
medical history and having a physical examination, tests, laboratory tests, scans or 
X-rays, and may be followed by counselling, education, referral to hospital or further 
treatments, or further tests.
The policy further states that cover is not provided for the following:
Tests not included within the full health screen (for example, X-rays and blood 
tests)
Im satisfied that, despite how it may have been marketed, the service M provided to Mr L
and Mr T in 2018 and 2019 was essentially a blood test with an accompanying report on the
results. There was no further examination or testing beyond the blood test. There was no
discussion with either Mr L or Mr T about their health. The service provided was exactly the
same in both years even though the receipt provided by M in 2019 was worded slightly
differently to its receipt in 2018.
While I consider that the policys definition of a full health screening is open to interpretation,
I dont consider that the service which Mr L and Mr T received from M can reasonably be
said to meet this definition. This being the case, I dont consider that their claims in 2018 or
2019 were eligible for benefit.
Health Shield nonetheless paid the claims in 2018. It has explained that this was because it
had misunderstood the nature of the service provided by M, partly because M had provided
misleading information to it when it sought to check the claims eligibility. Im satisfied that
Health Shield shouldnt have paid the claims in 2018 though I consider it cant reasonably
now ask Mr L and Mr T to pay the money back and I note that Health Shield has accepted
this.
However, the fact that Health Shield paid the claims by mistake in 2018 doesnt mean it must
also pay the claims in 2019. It realised when it was dealing with the 2019 claims that it had
misunderstood the nature of the service provided by M and that the claims were ineligible.
I consider it is reasonable that it therefore declines the claims in 2019.
Mr L and Mr T have pointed out that they werent made aware that the claims in 2018 were
paid in error. However, Health Shield advised them as soon as it realised this was the case;
it couldnt have advised them sooner. And I dont think Mr L and Mr T have been
disadvantaged by Health Shields error. If Health Shield had realised in 2018 that M wasnt
providing a full heath screening and advised this at the time, it might be that Mr L and Mr T
wouldnt have incurred the cost of the service in 2019. But equally, their 2018 claims
wouldnt have been paid. So the net result would be the same.
I sympathise with Mr L and Mr T who understandably believed that their 2019 claims would
be paid in the same way as their 2018 claims. And Health Shield hasnt helped matters with
its contradictory statements as to whether the 2018 claims were paid in error. However, as I
have explained above, I consider that it was fair for Health Shield to decline the 2019 
claims.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr L and Mr T didnt accept my provisional decision. They pointed out that Health Shield had 
confirmed the 2018 was eligible even after it had declined their 2019 claim. They questioned 
what misleading information was presented by M to Health Shield in 2018 which caused it to 
accept their claim and considered that Health Shield should have done more to check this 
information at the time. They said that undertaking a blood test was a common part of a 
health screening. They said if they had known the 2019 claim would not be eligible, they 
would not have incurred the cost of the screening.Health Shield didnt offer any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Health Shield initially maintained that the 2018 claim was paid correctly. This, of 
course, would be incompatible with its decision to decline the 2019 claim because the 
service received by Mr L and Mr T in both years was the same. However, during the course 
of our investigation, Health Shield corrected itself and acknowledged that the 2018 claim had 
been paid in error based on wrong information received from M.
Mr L and Mr T have questioned the nature of this wrong information and have suggested 
that Health Shield was instead at fault for placing the wrong interpretation on the information 
received. I dont know for sure whether the fault lay with M or Health Shield but I dont think it 
matters. The fact is that Mr L and Mr T had their 2018 claim paid so they were not 
disadvantaged at this time.
Mr L and Mr T say that if theyd known the claim wasnt eligible, they wouldnt have 
undergone the 2019 screening. That may be the case but, as explained in my provisional 
decision, if Health Shield had correctly confirmed the nature of the service provided by M in 
2018, it wouldnt have paid the earlier claim. So the net result as far as Mr L and Mr T are 
concerned would have been the same. They havent been disadvantaged overall by the fact 
that it was only in 2019 that Health Shield realised the service wasnt a full health screening.
Mr L and Mr T say that a blood test is a common part of a full health screening. I agree with 
this. But in their case, they only underwent a blood test followed by a report; there were no 
further elements to the service provided by M to warrant this being described as a full health 
screening.
In light of the above, and given that Health Shield has offered no further comment, Im 
satisfied that my provisional decision should stand. I sympathise with Mr L and Mr T but I 
consider it was reasonable for Health Shield to decline their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman