DRN-3521366
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd pursuing him for a debt 
which he says is fraudulent.
What happened
This complaint is about a short-term loan which was taken out in November 2019. The last 
repayment was made in March 2020. It was sold to Lantern in August 2020.
In mid-2021, Mr P said the loan was fraudulent. At first, Lantern didnt address this. They 
later apologised, saying theyd overlooked his email.
Lantern asked Mr P for more information so they could look into the alleged fraud, such as 
his bank statements. But Mr P didnt provide them. He said theyd show the money had gone 
into his account, which would make it hard for him to prove it was fraud. He set up a 
repayment plan instead.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They didnt make any findings on the fraud 
allegation, but recommended that Lantern pay Mr P £100 compensation for the delay in 
looking into the allegation.
Mr P thanked our investigator for this, but he reiterated the loan was fraudulent. Lantern 
didnt reply at first, then later agreed to pay the compensation but only if it went towards 
reducing the outstanding balance. The complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked both 
sides for more information about the alleged fraud.
I sent Mr P and Lantern a provisional decision on 11 May 2022. In that decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In doing so, Ive thought carefully about whether its fair for Lantern to pursue Mr P for this 
account. And based on what Ive seen so far, I think they are entitled to pursue him. Ill 
explain why.
This loan was taken out using Mr Ps genuine personal details. Notably, this included his 
genuine contact details too, such as his mobile phone number and email address. And its 
difficult to see why someone would use Mr Ps genuine contact details if they were trying to 
defraud him  as all the contact would go to Mr P directly and hed find out about the fraud 
almost straight away.
Indeed, Mr P received quite a bit of correspondence about this account  such as by email, 
text message, and post. But he didnt report anything was wrong until over a year and a half 
after the loan started. And I really cant see why Mr P would wait so long if this loan had 
been taken out without his permission.
The loan money was paid into an account in Mr Ps name, and hes accepted he did receive 
the funds. And at present, Im not able to see how someone else could have been able to 
access Mr Ps account and spend the money without his permission. So it looks like Mr P 
benefitted from this loan.
The loan also received a number of repayments from a debit card in Mr Ps name, which 
was verified as being his. So it seems like Mr P acknowledged the loan was his by making 
repayments. Notably, Mr P cancelled these payments in March 2020, but didnt report any 
fraud until over a year after that. So again, it looks like he was fully aware of the loan, but 
didnt report that anything was wrong at the time.
Indeed, it looks like until mid-2021, Mr P was dealing with the loan as a genuine account of 
his. According to the original creditors records, Mr P called them in December 2019 to let 
them know hed be late making a payment, and to make alternative arrangements. I can see 
he also dealt with the loan through a debt charity, who helped him arrange breathing space. 
And Ive listened to a call Mr P had with Lantern, where he accepted hed received the 
money, and he set up a repayment plan.
We did ask Mr P for clarification about why he thought the loan was fraudulent and why he 
waited to report it as fraud. We also asked for details to help us understand how someone 
else might have been able to take out this loan in his name and spend the money. And we 
asked for his bank statements so we could see what happened to the loan funds. But so far, 
Mr P hasnt provided this information.
So based on what Ive seen so far, Ive not seen anything which makes me think this loan 
was taken out fraudulently, whereas there seems to be substantial evidence that it was a 
genuine loan of Mr Ps. So I currently think its fair that Lantern are pursuing him for it.
Lastly, I can see Lantern accept that they didnt deal with things well when Mr P initially 
made the fraud allegation. It looks like theyve agreed to the £100 compensation our 
investigator recommended, but only if its used to reduce the loan balance. Since this 
appears to be a genuine loan balance, I think thats fair.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 June 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lantern have not added anything further. Mr P also didnt add any new arguments or 
evidence, though he asked for clarity on how the £100 would be paid.
To clarify, if Mr P accepts this final decision, well direct Lantern to use the £100 to reduce 
the loans balance.Otherwise, neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I find that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd are entitled to pursue Mr P for this loan.
I direct Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd to reduce the balance by £100 as compensation 
for how they dealt with this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman