DRN-1879962
The complaint
Mrs Js complaint is about Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. Mrs J is unhappy that, 
although shed provided a letter to Kensington about her employment, Kensington went 
ahead with a possession hearing in any event. Mrs J wants Kensington to compensate her 
for the stress shes been caused.
What happened
Mrs J has a mortgage with Kensington. Unfortunately Mrs J experienced some financial 
difficulties and on 8 May 2017 there was a possession hearing in the County Court, when 
the arrears were just over £5,000. At that time the monthly instalment was about £475.
On 30 April 2017 Mrs J wrote to Kensington, sending a copy of her employment contract and 
providing some details about her finances  in particular that she wanted to pay £750 per 
month from May 2017. In the light of this information, Mrs J wanted Kensington to agree to 
cancel the court hearing.
Kensingtons notes show that the bank spoke to Mrs J on 4 May 2017. Kensington wouldnt 
agree to Mrs Js proposals or to cancel the hearing. Kensington said it would agree to the 
proposals under a suspended possession order. 
At the hearing the court didnt make a suspended possession order, but adjourned the case 
generally on terms that Mrs J paid the monthly instalment plus £40.42 per month, the first 
payment to be made on 1 June 2017. I am pleased to note that Mrs J has now been able to 
clear the arrears.
Mrs J complained that Kensington hadnt given proper consideration to her employment 
information before the hearing and so could have avoided her going to court. Kensington 
didnt uphold the complaint  and indeed said it thought this had already been covered in 
previous final response letters.
Mrs J brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mrs J raised other issues 
in her complaint, but the investigator explained that those issues had been covered in a 
previous final response letter. Mrs J hadnt brought her complaint to us within six months of 
the date of that letter  and that there were no exceptional circumstances that would allow us 
to disregard the time limits. Mrs J accepted this. 
The investigator looked at how Kensington had dealt with the letter about Mrs Js 
employment and asked Kensington for its comments. Kensington acknowledged that it 
hadnt given Mrs J reasons as to why her letter hadnt resulted in the court hearing being 
cancelled. The bank explained that there was insufficient evidence of affordability, and the 
payment history showed that three out of the previous six months payments had been 
missed. As a result, Kensington didnt think it was appropriate to cancel the hearing.
Kensington accepted that it should have explained this to Mrs J at the time and offered £200 
compensation for trouble and upset. The investigator thought this was fair. Mrs J did not and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ive noted the other issues Mrs J raised as part of this complaint. Kensington didnt 
consent to us looking at those matters, as theyd been brought to us more than six months 
after Kensington had issued a final response letter. The investigator was satisfied this part of 
the complaint was out of time. 
For the sake of completeness, I confirm I agree with the investigators findings. Ive noted 
what Mrs J has said about why she didnt contact us in time, but Im satisfied these arent 
exceptional circumstances and so Im unable to waive the time limits. This means I will make 
no further comments on those matters.
Im glad to note that Kensington has acknowledged it didnt provide an adequate response to 
Mrs J in early May 2017 as to why it wasnt able to agree to her payment proposal. Although 
its clear from Kensingtons internal notes that the unaffordability of Mrs Js proposal was the 
reason why Kensington couldnt agree to it, Kensington didnt tell Mrs J this.
As a result, Mrs J was upset and baffled as to why the court hearing went ahead. I think if 
Kensington had explained things properly, Mrs J  although no doubt still unhappy at the 
situation she was in  would probably have understood why the hearing had to proceed.
Kensington has offered compensation of £200 for its failure to explain things to Mrs J. I 
appreciate Mrs J thinks this is inadequate, but Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Im not going to order Kensington to pay any more compensation.
Further points: I note that this is an interest-only mortgage taken out in 2004, over a 
23-year term. The mortgage has about seven years left to run. It would be remiss of me if I 
did not remind Mrs J that at the end of the mortgage term she will be required to repay the 
capital balance due to Kensington (which is just under £125,000). 
If Mrs J does not already have a repayment strategy in place (for example, an ISA, 
endowment policy or pension lump sum), she will need to give some thought about how she 
intends to repay the capital at the end of its term. Mrs J might want to think about speaking 
to an independent financial adviser about her options in this respect, and to discuss her 
plans with Kensington.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the 
compensation offered of £200 is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to Mrs J to decide if 
she wants to accept it in full and final settlement of her complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman