DRN-3484552
The complaint
Mr C complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about, and failed to manage adequately, the Enterprise Investments Schemes 
(EIS) he invested in.
What happened
Mr C invested a total of £309,832 into two Octopus EIS (OEIS 18 and OEIS 20) in 2015 and 
2016. The EIS were focused on investing in energy companies, particularly reserve power 
and international solar power. Prior to investing, Mr C received advice from his financial 
adviser, who is representing him in bringing this complaint. 
By October 2020 the value of Mr Cs investments had declined substantially, and he 
complained to Octopus. Mr C wants Octopus to compensate him for his losses and the 
stress they have caused him. Mr Cs complaint, in summary, is that:
The EIS brochures emphasised the term capital preservation and that should not have 
been used when there was the potential for the scale of loss he has experienced. 
The brochures included numerous positive statements that were misleading for an 
investment that had the risk of such significant losses.  
Before investing, he had been concerned there was little upside to the EIS  the tax relief 
was in effect the return  and wanted reassurance that the downside risk was covered by 
long term contractual revenues. Mr C and his adviser had a face to face meeting with 
Octopus and came away reassured that the risks were minimal and those that existed 
were within the control of Octopus. The EIS were offered and marketed as a rather 
boring investment which would achieve a very limited objective. What was said in the 
meeting was legally binding and took precedence over other statements in the 
brochures. He would not have gone ahead if any concerns or risks had been highlighted.
The EIS have performed so badly there must have been failings in Octopus due 
diligence and management. 
Some of the international solar plants were not connected to the grid until some years 
after the investments which led to a loss of revenue.
Octopus borrowed significant levels of money in addition to investors capital to enable 
them to purchase the underlying assets. The projects were geared up to 50-60% and as 
such had no equity for investors. Such gearing was inconsistent with the capital 
preservation objective and should have been flagged as a major risk in the EIS 
brochures. It was not mentioned at the meetings with Octopus.  
Octopus have said, in summary: 
The information they provided to Mr C was clear, balanced, and not misleading. All EIS 
investments are high risk and that was stated in multiple places in their brochures.  
Capital preservation was the objective, but like any EIS investment it was not guaranteed 
and that was made clear to Mr C. 
They had a discretionary management mandate to make investments they considered to 
be EIS-qualifying and consistent with the objective of capital preservation. The investee 
companies and investment proposals were subject to robust and continuing due 
diligence.
As a discretionary managed investment, Octopus retained the right to make all 
investment decisions at their discretion, in line with the mandate given and without prior 
reference to investors. That included all day-to-day decisions and actions they thought 
appropriate in relation to the management of the portfolio. 
The performance of Mr Cs investments is due to significant developments  including 
changes in legislation and government subsidies and falling energy prices - the 
combination of which was not foreseeable at the time he invested. It is not the result of 
Octopus acting inappropriately or negligently when selecting and managing the 
investments. 
Delays in grid connection contributed to the underperformance of some international 
solar projects but that was not the only, or even the primary reason for their 
underperformance. The projects were affected by exceptional circumstances and 
developments within the solar power market. They were outside of Octopus control and 
not predicted at the time the investments were made.
Gearing was not the main cause of the underperformance of Mr Cs investments. 
Debt financing of the type Mr C referred to is common for projects of this nature and a 
valid commercial decision. The use of debt financing by the investee companies was 
clearly disclosed. Whilst a conflict of interest existed, this was explained in the EIS 
brochure and robustly managed to ensure that all transactions were conducted in an 
appropriate manner. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. She thought the risks of Mr Cs 
investments were adequately highlighted by Octopus and that their marketing material had 
been clear, fair, and not misleading. She said she hadnt seen evidence which would 
suggest that Octopus failed to carry out initial due diligence when selecting the investments, 
and she thought Octopus had managed Mr Cs funds in the way they said they would. 
She also said the EIS brochures had made clear that the investee companies could borrow 
money and that was a legitimate commercial decision.
Mr C disagrees with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr C that I have looked carefully at all the information he has provided. 
Having done so, I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point 
he has raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors 
in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.  
Octopus were not responsible for giving advice to Mr C about his investments. So, it wasnt 
for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EIS were suitable for him. Any complaint about the suitability of the recommendation would lie against the provider of 
that advice. 
Octopus were responsible for providing information to Mr C and his adviser so he could 
make an informed decision about whether to invest in the EIS. Once Mr C had invested, 
Octopus had a mandate to make decisions on his behalf and had to ensure their actions 
were consistent with the strategy set out in the EIS brochures.  
Capital preservation and risk
Mr C and his adviser would have seen the Octopus brochures dated January and 
October 2015 before Mr C invested. Mr C has complained that the brochures emphasised 
the term capital preservation and were misleading for investments that could result in such 
significant losses. Ive therefore looked closely at the brochures to see what they said about 
capital preservation and the risks of the investments.
The cover of the brochures described the EIS as an investment that targets capital 
preservation and multiple tax reliefs. 
The Welcome to Octopus section at the start of the January 2015 brochure said the 
following, and the October 2015 brochure used very similar wording: 
But before you read any further, we want to make sure youre aware of the risks 
involved with investing in smaller companies. An EIS isnt for everyone and should be 
viewed as a high risk investment  even though we target capital preservation, your 
capital is placed at risk.
The section of the January 2015 brochure explaining the key risks included a similar 
message (again, the October 2015 brochure included similar wording): 
Investment risk: Octopus EIS invests in small unquoted companies that have a 
higher risk profile than larger companies. This is because smaller businesses have a 
higher failure rate than more established businesses, such as those that have their 
shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange Official List. In addition, smaller 
companies can change value more quickly and more significantly than larger
companies. Your capital is at risk and the investment return is not guaranteed.
The accompanying brochure Details of underlying investments had a separate page 
headed Focus on capital preservation. It explained that Octopus looked to invest in energy 
companies with attractive and stable revenues, many of which benefited from a variety of 
government support mechanisms. It said the EIS offered investors an investment strategy 
that targeted capital preservation, but it also included the paragraph on investment risk that I 
have quoted above. 
As well as the risks of investing in small unquoted companies, the EIS brochures also set out 
other key risks, including: 
The liquidity risks of investing in unquoted companies. Octopus said investors should 
be prepared to leave their money invested for at least three years. 
Risks specific to the energy sector. The brochures said the revenue streams of 
energy installations might be dependent on legislation and energy prices in the 
countries in which they were built. In the case of reserve power companies, the 
revenue streams were dependent on the market prices set by the National Grid. 
And any changes to legislation or generating performance could affect the returns. The limited diversification within the EIS, as investment could likely be in one or a 
small number of companies within one sector only. 
Conflicts of interest. Amongst other things, that the companies Octopus EIS invested 
in may also receive funding from other sources managed by Octopus Investments, 
that there may be joint ventures and performance fees might be paid from companies 
in which Octopus EIS invests.
I think Octopus provided clear, fair, and not misleading information about the risks of the 
investments. That included both the general risks of investing in smaller unquoted 
companies and the more specific risks relating to the energy sector. 
It was for Mr Cs financial adviser to assess whether the level of risk was suitable for Mr Cs 
needs. Although it is very unfortunate that a combination of some of the highlighted risks 
materialised, it does not follow that the information provided about risks was misleading.
Overall, I think the brochures made clear that while capital preservation was the aim of the 
EIS, it was not guaranteed. They explained clearly that the EIS was still a high risk 
investment that put an investors capital at risk.
 
I appreciate that Mr C has said that Octopus told him and his adviser at a meeting that the 
risks were minimal and that that long term revenue streams were secured.  He says that 
took precedence over anything said in the brochure. I cant be sure what was said during 
that meeting and, as Mr C has acknowledged, I therefore need to make a decision on the 
balance of probabilities, weighing up what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
I think its likely that Octopus would have highlighted capital preservation during the meeting 
as that was the aim of their investment strategy. I think its also likely that Octopus spoke 
about predictable revenue streams and government support in the energy sector, reflecting 
the information provided in the brochures. But that had to be balanced against the clear risk 
warnings that had also been set out in the brochures. 
Ive also seen that Octopus sought industry expert advice about likely returns and 
considered these forecasts before sharing information with potential investors. There is 
nothing to show that it was unreasonable to rely on this information at the time it was 
presented to Octopus. I dont consider that it was misleading for Octopus to refer to 
predictable revenue streams at the time Mr C invested. Octopus had warned that returns 
could be affected by changes in legislation or generating performance.
I dont think Ive got enough evidence to say that what was said to Mr C would have 
undermined the risk warnings given in the brochures provided to Mr C and his adviser. 
And overall, I think Octopus made sufficiently clear that there was a distinction between the 
aim of capital preservation and the inherently high risk nature of the EIS investment. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the information provided by Octopus was clear, fair, 
not misleading.
Due diligence and management of the EIS
When Mr C invested in the EIS he agreed that Octopus would manage the funds on the 
terms set out in the EIS brochures and the terms and conditions. The documentation 
explained the objectives of the EIS, how the investment process was expected to work and 
how the risks would be managed. In effect Octopus provided an investment management 
service and had a mandate to make investment decisions on behalf of investors. 
The EIS brochure said that Octopus would undertake a rigorous process to identify suitable 
investment opportunities. Octopus have said that all the investee companies and their 
investment proposals were subject to robust due diligence and have provided information on 
the process that was followed. Ive looked carefully at what Mr C has said and the 
information provided by Octopus. Based on what Ive seen, I think Octopus followed a due 
diligence process as set out in the EIS brochure. 
As Octopus was the discretionary manager it was for them to make legitimate commercial 
decisions on behalf of investors based on the information available at the time. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded that Octopus failed to make decisions in line with the 
mandate they had been given and with the objective of capital preservation, as set out in the 
EIS brochures.
I have considered what both Mr C and Octopus have said about the international solar 
power projects. It seems the delays in grid connection, which could not reasonably have 
been foreseen at the time of investment, affected the performance of some of the projects, 
but there were other developments that had a significant impact as well. Overall, I havent 
seen anything to show that it was unreasonable for Octopus to rely upon industry expert 
forecasts at the time of providing information about the investment. Octopus warned that 
international solar investments were dependent on energy prices in the countries in which 
they operated. That energy prices dropped after investment was therefore a risk highlighted 
within the brochures and was a matter outside Octopus control.
Although Mr Cs funds were invested across a portfolio of companies, they were all high risk 
assets. Unfortunately, in Mr Cs case, a number of the potential risks associated with this 
kind of investment have been realised and his portfolio has performed badly. I can therefore 
understand why Mr C feels strongly about what has happened. 
However, the fact that multiple risks materialised causing performance to drop does not 
automatically mean that Octopus failed to invest in line with the mandate they had been 
given. And based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think I can fairly say that Octopus failed 
to follow the investment mandate or acted negligently. 
Gearing
I appreciate that Mr C is unhappy with the extent of borrowing from Octopus by investee 
companies and he thinks that added substantial risk to the investments. But I think the EIS 
brochures made clear that investee companies might borrow and in my view that would not 
be unusual for new and developing companies. 
The conflicts of interest sections of the EIS brochures said that the investee companies 
may borrow money from sources that Octopus may manage or have a financial interest in. 
They went on to describe the controls Octopus had in place to manage conflicts of interest 
and make sure their customers were treated fairly. I note that Octopus have said that the 
loan terms were consistent with other energy related project lending and that they followed 
the conflict of interest process outlined in their product brochure.
I dont agree that the possibility of investee companies borrowing wasnt highlighted. And the 
fact that they did so does not change my view that the risks of the EIS were clearly explained 
to Mr C. 
Conclusion
I would like to reassure Mr C that Ive looked carefully at everything he has said. I can understand why he feels strongly about what has happened to his investment. But I dont 
think I can fairly say that Octopus failed to provide sufficiently clear information to Mr C 
before he decided to invest, or that they have failed to manage his investment in line with the 
mandate they were given. I realise this will be a very disappointing decision for Mr C, but I 
wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint 
against Octopus Investments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman