DRN-2126968
The complaint
Mr B complains that Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
In 1998 Mr B took out a mortgage. At that stage he didnt take out PPI. 
In 2002 Mr B took out PPI when he applied for some extra secured borrowing on his 
mortgage account. The PPI protected his mortgage monthly repayments and covered Mr B 
in the event of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr B disagreed. His main 
complaint is that Yorkshire Building Society made insufficient detailed enquiries and didnt 
take into account his personal financial situation at the time. 
Mr B also told us that he didnt need PPI as he had ample other means to rely on to pay the 
mortgage if he wasnt working. 
He has also said that the way our adjudicator said the policy was sold to him is factually 
incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Yorkshire Building Society told us that it sold the PPI to Mr B in one of its branches. Mr B is 
certain that hes never been into a Yorkshire Building Society branch. But I dont need to 
make a decision about this since I've been able to see the paperwork that Mr B completed. 
And it doesnt make any difference to the outcome of this complaint whether the forms were 
filled in at a Yorkshire Building Society branch or elsewhere. 
I cant fairly uphold Mr Bs complaint that he was mis-sold PPI just based on what he says. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
I dont know if Mr B spoke to anyone at the building society about taking out the PPI 
(possibly by phone if he doesnt recall ever going into one of its branches) or what, if 
anything, he was told about it. But, as the mortgage had been running for a number of years 
without PPI, I think hed have been aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted to take it 
out. 
  
And I think this is borne out by the paperwork I've seen. There was nothing on the loan 
application Mr B filled in that wouldve made him think he had to have PPI.  
And in order to take out the policy, Mr B filled in a separate application to have the PPI 
added on to his mortgage account and also set up new payment arrangements to cover the 
monthly premiums for the policy.
Mr B selected the level of cover he wanted from a range of options when he took out 
protection against unemployment only. And he also chose the amount of benefit he wanted 
to buy and decided on the excess period. 
On balance, even if he hadnt wanted it before, it appears that Mr B decided he wanted to 
have the benefits that PPI offered him after being made aware of the policy features, and so 
he decided to buy the insurance  his chosen options reflecting his wishes at the time. 
One of Mr Bs main concerns is that Yorkshire Building Society made no proper enquiries 
into his circumstances  and had it done so, it wouldve found out that he was financially 
secure and that he had excellent work benefits and other ways to pay the mortgage if he 
found himself unexpectedly unemployed. 
But Yorkshire Building Society didnt advise Mr B to have the policy. So it wasnt under any 
obligation to ask Mr B about his other means or check if he had savings or other ways to pay 
his mortgage. It was up to Mr B to decide whether or not he wanted to take out PPI, knowing 
what his financial situation was at the time.
Yorkshire Building Society still had to make sure that it gave Mr B clear enough information 
so he was able to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for him. And if this 
didn't happen, then I have to think about whether this made any overall difference to Mr B.
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any employment benefits and for up to 12 months 
per claim if Mr B lost his job unexpectedly and he became unemployed. So, despite his 
workplace benefits in this situation, the PPI provided some additional financial security in 
those circumstances and I think that couldve been useful.
Mr B mentioned having other property which he owned outright. But it seems he didnt 
choose to use equity available in that property when instead he increased his borrowing on 
this mortgage. So I dont think its likely hed have wanted to remortgage that property in 
order to make the monthly repayments on this mortgage. 
Although Mr B told us he had some shares, having PPI meant he wasnt at risk of being 
forced to sell any shares  perhaps at a time not of his choosing when he mightnt have 
been able to achieve the price he hoped for. 
I've also thought carefully about the money Mr B told us he had invested in fixed term cash 
deposits. Mr B didnt put any of this money towards keeping down the cost of the mortgage, 
choosing instead to increase his mortgage borrowing. 
I can understand that perhaps he preferred to keep savings intact to provide financial 
security or to spend on other things. 
And in that case, I think he wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. 
Having PPI meant that Mr B could be sure hed be able to pay the mortgage monthly 
repayments without breaking into long term savings that he had other plans for.  The policy provided him with long term protection as he couldve made repeated claims on it. 
So, after thinking about everything Mr B told us about his circumstances and taking into 
account that the policy was free for the first 6 months, I can see why Mr B mightve wanted 
to have PPI and how it could potentially have been useful to him in his particular situation.
I dont know how much information Mr B was given about the policy exclusions and 
limitations. 
But it looks like Mr B was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main 
things not covered under the policy. 
So I dont think more information about things that didnt affect him wouldve made any 
difference to Mr Bs decision to take out PPI.
Mr B wouldve seen what hed have to pay for the PPI as this was shown in the mortgage 
offer sent to him. Mr B couldve cancelled the PPI if he hadnt wanted to start paying to keep 
it running at the end of the free period. 
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. 
But it looks like Mr B chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to.  
Mr B seems to have tailored the cover and benefit to fit his particular requirements at the 
time. 
And, despite his other means, I think that the policy offered him useful cover - and it was free 
of cost to him for 6 months. 
So I think that Mr B still wouldve decided to take out the policy even if hed been given 
clearer information as it gave him useful protection. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that having clearer information wouldve put him off 
buying it.
This means Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr B.
But Yorkshire Building Society has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Yorkshire Building Society got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) so it should have told Mr B about that.
Because Yorkshire Building Society didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire Building Society has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman