DRN-2719042
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the settlement offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) for her home 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs C has a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI. In November 2020 Mrs C made a 
claim on her home insurance policy when her induction hob cracked.
UKI accepted the claim and offered to either fit a replacement of the same model or pay    
Mrs C the cash value of what it wouldve cost UKI to replace the item. After her £250 excess 
this came to £1284.99.
Mrs C was unhappy with this outcome, she said her current model had been discontinued 
some time ago and she had concerns about the safety of the unit UKI was offering. She felt 
a fairer outcome would be for UKI to pay for her chosen suppler to fit a newer model of her 
chosen hob. She submitted a quote showing this would cost £2399. Mrs C was also 
unhappy with how she was spoken to by UKIs suppliers, and felt their conduct was 
unacceptable.
UKI didnt agree to increase its offer or pay the amount shed been quoted for the newer 
model. It explained the terms of her policy meant it had fulfilled its obligations by offering to 
provide the same model or the cash value of the cost of replacing it. 
UKI were unable to source the recordings of the conversations Mrs C was unhappy with but 
agreed the service received wasnt acceptable. It offered £75 as acknowledgement of the 
upset caused as well as a promise to provide feedback to those responsible.                     
Mrs C disagreed with UKIs offer and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought UKI had dealt with the claim fairly and offered a reasonable 
outcome. They didnt feel it would be fair to recommend UKI did any more than Ms Cs policy 
required. They also found the £75 offer made by UKI was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs C disagreed. She still felt she couldnt be sure the unit UKI was offering was safe or 
legitimate. She felt it was only fair to offer a model that was currently in production  and that 
her chosen supplier should fit it. She was willing to accept a cash value but didnt think the 
amount offered by UKI was enough to cover the cost of her chosen replacement. 
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether UKI has acted fairly when dealing with Mrs Cs claim. Ive looked at 
the policy which Mrs C held. Amongst other things it insures damaged contents, the policy 
says:
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it 
would have cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
make a cash payment
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair 
using our own suppliers.
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will pay the full 
cost of the item provided the sum insured is adequate.
UKI has offered to replace the damaged item with the exact same model  which Im 
satisfied is an appropriate replacement. Its also offered to pay Mrs C the cost of replacing 
the item up to the amount it wouldve cost UKI to replace. This is exactly the cover which  
Mrs Cs policy provides her. 
I can see UKI even agreed to consider a quote from Mrs Cs chosen supplier  and 
understandably refused to pay this when the amount was substantially more than either of 
the options itd already provided.
I appreciate Mrs C has concerns about the age and legitimacy of the replacement - but Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that the item UKI is offering is anything but legitimate. UKI has 
also confirmed if the unit was found to be faulty upon installation it would be replaced. 
If Mrs C is still concerned about the items safety or UKIs supplier, then the option to take 
the cash value is available to her. She can also accept the cash value if shed still prefer to 
purchase a newer model from her own chosen supplier. I agree the amount offered by UKI 
falls short of Mrs Cs quote for the new model she wants  but replacing her damaged hob 
with a newer and more expensive model isnt the protection her policy with UKI provides.
Ive also considered the offer UKI has made to compensate Mrs C for the poor service she 
received. To award any compensation Id need to be satisfied that the impact of UKIs error 
was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear this is the case. Call recordings were unable to be provided but UKI has 
acknowledged the service Mrs C received was not up to their usual standard, and Mrs C has 
described convincingly how the attitude of the staff upset her. But I think that in the 
circumstances, the offer of £75 UKI has already made along with confirmation its provided 
feedback to ensure the same mistake doesnt happen again is fair and reasonable 
compensation.
I dont think it would be fair to expect UKI to do any more than what its already offered  Im 
satisfied it has dealt fairly with Mrs Cs claim and offered reasonable options to settle it. The 
amount UKI has offered for its poor service is also a fair acknowledgment of the impact it 
had on Mrs C.
My final decision
My decision is that UKIs offer of £75 is fair and reasonable. U K Insurance Limited should 
pay this amount to Mrs C if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman