DRN-2874705
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the amount of interest on a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd (BMF). 
Mrs A is being represented on her complaint, however to keep things simple Ive referred to 
Mrs A throughout my decision
What happened
On 19 February 2019 Mrs A acquired a used car through a hire purchase (HP) agreement 
with BMF. The car was registered in July 2013, which means it was about 6 years old and 
had travelled 40,285 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was £11,499. 
Mrs A paid a deposit of £159 which meant that the credit agreement was for £11,340 
payable over 60 months.
In March 2021 Mrs A complained to BMF about the interest that had been added to the 
agreement. 
Mrs A explained that she wasnt told about the interest being added to the agreement and 
only became aware of it when she received a statement of payments in March 2021. Mrs A 
said she believed the interest was already included in the price of the car. Mrs A said the 
main document presented to her was the contract of sale which didnt include the amount of 
interest payable. 
Mrs A explained that had she realised the amount of interest being added she wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the agreement. Mrs A said she felt under duress to sign one of the 
documents and believe the details were hidden. Mrs A would like compensation for BMFs 
misconduct towards her.
BMF provided their final response to Mrs As complaint on 28 April 2021. BMF didnt uphold 
the complaint, explaining that the contract of sale document was between Mrs A and the 
dealer so wouldnt include the interest. However, they said that Mrs A was given the 
opportunity to view the interest added and had signed the HP agreement. BMF added that 
as Mrs A admitted she hadnt read through the agreement, they couldnt be held liable for 
this. 
In March 2021 Mrs A brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into her 
concerns but didnt uphold her complaint as they felt that BMF had acted fairly in presenting 
all the information to her.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs A asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
In considering this complaint Ive had to think about whether Mrs A had been misled by the 
information presented to her and Ive also had to consider whether Mrs A had been treated 
fairly during the process.
was Mrs A misled into entering the agreement?
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says firms must ensure consumers are provided 
with clear information and are kept appropriately informed before, during and after the point 
of sale.
So, having considered this, I think it would have been reasonable for Mrs A to expect the 
details of her repayments to have been made clear to her before she entered into the 
agreement.
Mrs A says that she agreed to the sale based on the contract of sale document which didnt 
have the interest included on it. However, BMF have said that Mrs A confirmed shed been 
given an opportunity, during the sale, to review the agreement information on the sales 
persons screen, but she didnt read through the agreement. 
Mrs A told this service that she hadnt read the agreement because she took it that nothing 
was different from the contract of sale. Mrs A also confirmed to us that she received a copy 
of the agreement.
The contract of sale that Mrs A refers to is the document that outlines the contract between 
Mrs A and the dealer. So, although it included the sale price of the car and any deposit paid, 
I wouldnt normally expect it to include all details relating to the finance agreement.
The financial information section of the HP agreement is collated in a table that takes up 
about a third of the front page. It sets out the total cash price as £11,499, the deposit paid as 
£159, the amount of credit as £11,340 and, among other items, the total charge for credit as 
£4,489. It also has the interest rate of 14.89% set out in the table. This information lines up 
with the information from the contract of sale document. And, it appears Mrs A signed the 
agreement.
I think its likely that, had Mrs A read the agreement, she wouldve understood what interest 
was being charged and the total cost of this. 
Having considered this, Im satisfied that Mrs A wasnt misled by the information she was 
provided with, and Im satisfied that she had the opportunity to review the interest that was 
being added to the agreement and consider at the time whether it was something she was 
willing to go ahead with or not.
was Mrs A treated fairly
Mrs A said she felt under duress to sign the forms and felt shed been lured into the 
agreement. Ive already established that I think she wouldve understood the details on the 
credit agreement, and I havent seen any evidence that Mrs A was inappropriately tempted into signing the agreement. So, Im not persuaded, based on the evidence, that Mrs A was 
pressured into signing it. 
Mrs A also explained that she felt under duress because of the distraction and pressure of 
having her children with her at the time. Although I can appreciate there may be a distraction 
that comes with managing young children, Im still not persuaded that Mrs A was under 
duress to sign the agreement. 
Ive also thought about everything else Mrs A said in relation to this complaint. But this 
doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about Blue Motor Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman