DRN-2774181
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled his 
commercial property insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C has a commercial property insurance policy for a property he rents out as a holiday let. 
The policy is underwritten by RSA.
 
Mr Cs property was damaged due to an escape of water. As part of his claim, Mr C claimed 
for loss of rent due to him being unable to let his property while the repairs were being 
carried out. He was initially told this could be included in the settlement, but RSA later said 
the policy didnt cover loss of rent in respect of holiday lets.
Mr C is unhappy that: RSA declined his claim for loss of rent; he hasnt received a partial 
refund of the premiums; hes had to pay for costs (cleaning fees and an electrician) which he 
considers should be included in the settlement; RSA has caused delays in how its handled 
the claim.
RSA has acknowledged there was a delay in the settlement amount being paid and that its 
communication could have been better - it offered £75 compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience caused. It said Mr C wasnt entitled to a refund of the premiums because a 
claim had been made, and the policy was cancelled outside the 14-day cooling off period. 
RSA asked Mr Cs loss assessor to submit details of the costs he considered to have been 
omitted from the settlement, so that RSAs loss adjuster could review it. 
RSA added that if Mr C had told it, at the time the policy was taken out, the property was 
going to be let as a holiday rental it would have declined his application. RSA cancelled the 
policy on the basis Mr C had provided incorrect information. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She clarified that this complaint is only 
considering events after 30 April 2019  events prior this have been considered as a 
separate complaint. She considered the life of the claim and identified places where RSA 
had caused delays. So, she recommended £200 compensation. 
Our investigator was satisfied Mr C wasnt entitled to a partial refund of the premiums for the 
reasons RSA had given. She said the schedule of works included costs for cleaning and 
electrical works and that shed seen that discussions had taken place between RSA and Mr 
Cs loss assessor regarding this. She suggested Mr C speak with his loss assessor in the 
first instance if he considers there to still be outstanding costs. 
With regards to the loss of rent  the investigator initially said the policy document didnt 
make it clear holiday lets were excluded and said it should reconsider this part of the claim.   
RSA accepted the increased compensation but didnt agree it should cover any loss of 
bookings, stating theres no cover for this.  
Our investigator looked again and accepted the policy didnt cover loss of holiday rental 
bookings, but rather loss of rent for landlords, which is whom the policy is designed for. She 
explained that if Mr C had concerns about how the policy was taken out, he should direct 
these to his broker. But she increased the amount of compensation to £300 because she 
thought RSA hadnt managed Mr Cs expectations. 
RSA accepted the investigators findings, but Mr C remained unhappy and so the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Loss of rent
Mr Cs policy is designed to cover residential landlords. And as the property is rented 
for holiday lets, Im satisfied he isnt entitled to claim for loss of rent. 
But Im not satisfied RSA managed Mr Cs expectations as it should have. I say this 
as Mr Cs loss assessor provided information about cancelled holiday let bookings 
and RSA didnt explain at the time that this wouldnt be covered  and I think it should 
have. This meant Mr C was given the impression he had a valid claim in respect of 
loss of rent, when he didnt. And so, Im satisfied RSA needs to pay compensation to 
reflect the upset this would have caused Mr C.
Refund of premiums
Mr C has said that as his policy was cancelled mid-term, he should be entitled to a 
partial refund. Ive looked at the policy document and it says in respect of cancelling 
a policy outside the statutory period:
If you have incurred eligible claims during the period you have been on cover with 
us, no refund of premiums will be given.
As Mr C has an eligible claim and the policy has been cancelled outside the statutory 
period, Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly by refusing a partial refund. 
Delays
RSA has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. Whats prompt and fair will 
depend on the circumstances of each individual claim. Having looked at things, Im 
satisfied from May to November 2019 RSA progressed Mr Cs claim promptly. 
RSA agrees it took too long to pay the settlement once it had been agreed. There 
isnt an identifiable cause for this, and so, Im satisfied RSA need to pay 
compensation to reflect the inconvenience this delay has caused. 
Outstanding costs
The schedule of works includes costs for the electrical works Mr C said had been 
omitted. I can see that conversations took place between Mr C, his loss assessor and 
RSA before the settlement figure was agreed to. So, if Mr C considers there to be 
outstanding items, he needs to share invoices for the works with RSA so it can 
consider these. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think its fair to ask RSA to increase 
its settlement without evidence of additional costs.My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must:
Pay Mr C a further £300 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of its handling of the claim. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman