DRN-2019898
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his motor insurance policy and the subsequent cancellation of his 
policy.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr Ws car caught fire whilst he was driving. He reported the incident to 
Markerstudy and it registered a claim. 
Markerstudy arranged for Mr Ws car to be collected and assessed. But an independent 
engineer determined that there was no evidence of a fire and believed the most likely cause 
of smoke from the car was a filter. As such, since the issue was mechanical, then it wouldnt 
be covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. So Markerstudy declined the claim, 
and subsequently cancelled the policy.
Mr W wasnt happy with the circumstances so raised a formal complaint. Markerstudy 
reviewed his concerns and issued a final response letter. It didnt uphold the complaint. It 
maintained the issue was mechanical which wasnt covered under the policy. Furthermore, 
Markerstudy said it invoked its right as insurer to cancel the policy and said it wasnt obliged 
to disclose the reason why.
Mr W remained unhappy and so he referred the matter to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for him and said his complaint should be partly upheld. Although he 
thought the reason for turning down the claim was reasonable he didnt think the cancellation 
marker should be recorded against Mr W. He recommended £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and asked Markerstudy to remove the marker.
Markerstudy didnt agree to the compensation. It said a voidance wasnt recorded against 
Mr W externally but said the cancellation was noted internally. However, Markerstudy wasnt 
prepared to provide a letter to explain that Mr W didnt have to disclose the cancellation to 
future insurers. So the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be partly upheld, Ill explain why. Ive 
looked at two elements in relation to this complaint, the claim, and the cancellation.
Firstly, Ive looked at the claim. I can understand why Mr W made a claim given the 
circumstances he describes just before he stopped his car. But Markerstudys engineer 
carried out an assessment of the car. And although the inspection wasnt as full as it 
couldve been (as the car couldnt be started because of a fuel leak), the engineers visual 
inspection confirmed there wasnt any evidence of fire damage. The wiring looms werent 
affected and there was no smell of burning. The engineer was of the view that the source of 
the fire was down to a filter on the exhaust. I find this piece of evidence persuasive and so I 
dont think Markerstudy acted unreasonably here. I say this as the fault appears to be 
mechanical in nature (which isnt covered under the policy) and isnt linked to an accident or 
incident. 
Next, Ive looked at the cancellation of the policy. I appreciate Markerstudy have a right to 
cancel the policy as long as they have reasonable cause. I have considered the details 
surrounding the cancellation and I dont consider this to be fair, although I can understand 
why Markerstudy made its decision. But I think Mr W was obviously distressed as a result of 
the fire, and the fact the claim was declined which didnt help matters. However, as much as 
I dont propose to interfere with its commercial decision I dont see why he should be 
penalised by having a marker noted on his record. I appreciate Markerstudy stated this was 
just recorded internally, but Mr W would need to disclose this to future insurers, and I dont 
think that is fair and creates an overly harsh outcome.
So, I think Markerstudy should provide a letter explaining to Mr W that he doesnt have to 
disclose the cancellation of his policy to other insurers and that it isnt recorded on any 
external databases or systems. And it should pay Mr W £200 compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience caused by the cancellation of his policy.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to; 
pay £200 compensation for the distress caused by the cancellation, and
provide a letter confirming that he doesnt need to disclose this to future insurers. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman