DRN-3696641
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr S are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has not refunded them after Mrs F 
was the victim of an HMRC impersonation scam. As a result, they lost £4,485 to the 
scammers with payments that debited their joint account on 7 April 2021.
Whilst this was a joint account, it was Mrs F that fell victim to the scam  so I have only 
referred to her throughout this decision.
What happened
The details are well known to both parties and were set out in the investigators view of 21 
October 2021 - so I wont repeat them here. The investigator upheld the complaint in part  
upholding the first transfer of £1,697 but he did not uphold the other payments Mrs F made 
as these were carried out by using a debit card and transferred into an account in Mrs Fs 
own name. Mrs F and Mr S accepted the investigators findings. HSBC did not respond.
Further developments
I wrote to HSBC setting out my initial thoughts about upholding the complaint. In response it 
said:
Given the reference in the initial provisional decision to the following article: HMRC 
leads number spoofing crackdown to prevent fraud - BBC News, it questioned 
whether number spoofing can have reasonably been applicable here.
It also noted there were some unusual elements such as documents sent through 
social media - its position is that the combination of issues was such that Mrs F did 
not have a reasonable basis for belief. 
I ask Mrs F for some further information. She told me:
She no longer has the number that called her saved on her phone and her mobile 
phone provider does not keep a record of incoming calls. 
She challenged the scammer on the phone and told them she was suspicious of the 
number they had called on. The caller then told her that he would call her from the 
HMRC number, and to search the website for herself. She says she saw the number, 
hung up the phone and was called back from that exact number. She says she 
checked the number accurately.
She has been a taxpayer since the beginning of 2019. 
Her salary had increased in February 2021, so she knew the amount of tax had 
changed but she wasnt aware of how much tax she paid per year. She has lived in 
Australia since she was 21 years old, and here every year she was required to 
submit a tax return even if employed by someone else. She only lived in UK for one 
year before lockdown. 
She thought she was going to get a fine because she should have lodged a return 
like in Australia. 
Her work was highly stressful and impacted significantly on her ability to understand 
the tax system. Her role does not mean regular office hours and she was dealing with 
incredibility vulnerable children. She was already under a lot of pressure and stress 
and it impacted her to see all the signs that she was being scammed.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 August 2022. Mrs F accepted my provisional decision 
and HSBC confirmed it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
The debit card payments are not in dispute  Mrs F has accepted the investigators findings 
on that, so my decision will focus on the first transaction of £1,697.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether
HSBC should have reimbursed Mrs F in line with the provisions of the of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) it has
agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mrs F from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mrs F was tricked into making the payment. She thought she
was speaking to someone from HMRC and that she owed tax. But this isnt enough, in itself, 
for Mrs F to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The code places a level of 
care on Mrs F too.
The CRM code
HSBC has signed up to and agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in
all but a limited number of circumstances.
It is for HSBC to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.Those exceptions are:
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am not persuaded the concerns HSBC has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mrs F was making are enough to support its 
position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payment she made. It follows that I do not think HSBC has been able to establish that it may 
choose not to reimburse Mrs F under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Did Mrs F have a reasonable basis of belief?
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I consider Mrs F had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment she was making was for a genuine tax payment 
and that the person she was transacting with a genuine representative of HMRC. In reaching 
that conclusion, I have thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Mrs F to 
do when she was paying the sum of £1,697 bearing in mind the pressure she would have 
been under in the moment of the call like this. 
There were controls in place to prevent spoofing of HMRCs most used inbound helpline 
numbers, but I dont think Mrs F ever said she was called from the main HMRC number. 
Indeed this press release from the government https://www.gov.uk/government/news/scam-
hmrc-call-reports-drop-by-97 indicates HMRC spoof calls were being reported at peak 
records in the month before Mrs Fs transaction: Reports of scammers 
impersonating HMRC in phone calls peaked at 79,477 in March 2021 and fell to just 2,491 in 
December 2021.
Mrs F says she received an automated call saying someone from HMRC would call her. She 
says she questioned the caller who guided her to the number on the website - which gave 
her reassurance. Even if the consumer was directed to a more obscure number on the 
website  I dont think Mrs F would have necessarily realised this was the case at the time, 
nor do I think she would have had time to make that kind of evaluation in the pressurised 
moment of a scam like this. I think in the moment - and under pressure - she reasonably 
would have been reassured she was speaking to someone genuine. Mrs F says she was 
unaware numbers could be spoofed, so believed the caller was from HMRC. In the 
circumstances I dont think this was an unreasonable assumption to make.
I asked Mrs F to provide evidence of this call, but she no longer has the number in her 
mobile phone history. She has tried to get this information via her mobile phone provider and 
has supplied evidence confirming they do not keep records of incoming calls. This lack of 
evidence doesnt mean a spoofed call didnt happen (and nor does the controls put in place 
to prevent these calls  as shown by the reported figures above). Ultimately, I am persuaded 
by her testimony that things happened as she has explained.
Mrs F told us she had recently changed job roles and had a pay increase. So, in the moment 
and pressure of the call  she thought that her employer had perhaps made an error with her 
tax code. She says she was convinced by the scammer that she was responsible for 
checking her taxes. She also explained that she is unfamiliar with the UK tax system having only been a UK taxpayer since the beginning of 2019 and having previously resided in 
Australia. I can therefore see why Mrs F thought she might therefore be liable for additional 
tax. In the circumstances, I dont consider this to be an unreasonable conclusion to draw.  
I dont disagree there were some unusual elements such as the scammer seemingly 
knowing little information about Mrs F, the documents sent through social media and the 
payee not having any reference to HMRC. However - Ive considered the scene that was set 
by the fraudster for Mrs F and the impact I believe this reasonably had on her thoughts and 
actions. She told us she was overwhelmed and couldnt think straight. This was of course a 
deliberate tactic by the fraudster - creating fear of arrest  in the hope it would disrupt Mrs 
Fs thinking and make her more compliant. At first glance  I think the letter does look like a 
genuine HMRC letter and I doubt that Mrs F had time to scrutinise the document for its 
errors. On balance, I believe that it was difficult for Mrs F to think clearly in the moment and 
she had little opportunity to make further enquiries and that in all the circumstances, her 
response was not unreasonable.
Im also persuaded by what Mrs F has told this service about how this scam happened. Her 
recollections are consistent with what she told HSBC when she reported the scam and with 
what other victims of scams of this nature have described. 
Should HSBC have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mrs F?
Ive thought about whether HSBC did enough to protect Mrs F from becoming a victim of a 
scam. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, 
they should provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mrs F made this payment, HSBC should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
In this case, Mrs F was making a relatively modest payment  although I appreciate it was a 
large amount to her. But I dont think the amount of this payment would have made it stand 
out enough for HSBC to have been concerned that Mrs F might have been at risk of financial 
harm from fraud at the time that she made it. The payment was relatively low in value. So, I 
dont think HSBC should have identified an APP scam risk in the payment journey or that it 
needed to provide Mrs F with an effective warning. 
That said, HSBC has said a warning was shown  although Mrs F says she doesnt recall 
seeing a fraud alert warning at all at the time. But HSBCs contact history notes indicate a 
fraud warning was shown. So even though HSBC did not need to provide a warning - Ive 
still considered whether seeing the warning at the time the payment was made should have 
entered Mrs Fs thought processes. 
Looking at the warning HSBC says was provided, I can see it attempts to prevent generic 
scams, but I dont think the warning makes the risk of falling victim to this particular type of 
scam obvious. 
The warning says Stop, think and talk to someone you trust. Fraudsters can contact you 
unexpectedly and pressure you into making a payment quickly  but, it doesnt cover the 
common features of HMRC scams or really bring to life what the type of scam Mrs F fell 
victim to looks like. And it doesnt explain in sufficient detail what Mrs F could have done to 
protect herself against this type of scam. Overall, Im not persuaded that a reasonable person in Mrs Fs position would fully understand the scam risk from the warning HSBC 
gave. 
Taking account of all the circumstances here, which includes the warning messages HSBC 
gave, I dont think Mrs Fs actions fell below the level of care expected of her in this situation. 
I think HSBC ought to have fully refunded Mrs F at the time she reported the loss and so it 
should fairly and reasonably compensate her by refunding that loss now. 
Did HSBC do enough to recover Mrs Fs funds?
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But, Ive thought about 
whether HSBC took reasonable steps to recover Mrs Fs funds once it was made aware, she 
was the victim of a scam. 
The scam payment was made on 7 April 2021 at 10.59 and  as I understand it - Mrs F 
reported the scam to HSBC on the same day (although I cant see any reference to a date 
and time of her reporting on HSBCs file). HSBC contacted the receiving bank on 8 April 
2021 at 18.59  so it seems to me this was quite some time after the scam was reported. 
The beneficiary bank confirmed to HSBC on 2 June 2021 (some two months later) that no 
funds remained  although it didnt indicate when exactly those funds were removed. 
Therefore, I cant safely conclude whether HSBCs delay in contacting the beneficiary bank 
would have made a difference here.
However, as HSBC is no longer contesting the outcome above  any potential errors in 
recovery do not make a difference to the overall outcome of the case. So, I dont need to 
consider this point further.
Overall, the CRM Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care 
(which as Ive explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the 
money that was lost. So, I think its fair that HSBC refunds the money Mrs F lost, along with 
interest.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs F I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to: 
 refund Mrs Fs loss of £1,697
 pay 8% simple interest on the refund from the date her claim was declined to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things 
right for Mrs F and Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman