DRN-3915894
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way that AWP P&C SA has settled a claim she made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I havent set them out 
in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Ms B was abroad in a country Ill call M. She was due to return to the UK in January 2022 via 
a country Ill call A. Part of Ms Bs trip had been booked as a package.
Unfortunately, on 1 December 2021, Ms Bs passport, credit cards and other items were 
stolen. While she was able to arrange a temporary passport, she couldnt arrange a visa she 
needed to travel through and via A in time, and neither could replacement credit cards be 
easily delivered to M. So Ms B decided to cut short her trip and returned to the UK on 20 
December 2021. She made claims on her travel insurance policy for her stolen items and the 
curtailment of her trip.
AWP partly settled Ms Bs claims. The theft claim was settled. AWP didnt think the 
curtailment claim was covered by the curtailment section of the policy. But it said that the 
personal effects section of the policy covered the cost of air tickets or other reasonable 
expenses incurred as a result of theft, up to a limit of £1500. So it assessed Ms Bs claim 
under this section. And it paid Ms B a pro-rata amount of her lost package trip costs. It also 
went on to pay Ms B £302 for her return flight from M to the UK.
Ms B was unhappy with AWPs settlement of her claim, and the way it had handled it. She 
didnt think the pro-rata settlement had been calculated fairly. And her travel agent said it 
couldnt provide a breakdown of each component part of the package. Ms B provided 
evidence that shed had other pre-paid costs outside of the package, which hadnt been 
considered, along with the cost of her return flight from one UK airport to a UK airport closer 
to her home. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Ms Bs complaint should be partly upheld. 
She thought that AWP had calculated the pro-rata payment for the lost elements of Ms Bs 
package trip fairly, based on the evidence it had. But she noted that AWP hadnt included 
the cost of the UK domestic return flight or assessed the costs of unused accommodation 
which appeared to have been booked outside of the package. So she recommended that 
AWP should reassess Ms Bs claim, taking into account the evidence Ms B had provided 
and provide Ms B with a clear breakdown of any calculations. And she also thought that 
AWP should pay Ms B £200 compensation to recognise that there had been errors in the 
way it had handled her claim.
AWP didnt respond to the investigators assessments and so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AWP needs to reassess Ms Bs claim and Ill explain why.
Its important I explain that despite chases from our investigator, AWP hasnt provided us 
with a copy of its claims evidence, its claims rationale or any response to our investigators 
assessments. So my decision has necessarily been made based on the evidence Ms B has 
provided.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Ms Bs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether AWP 
treated her fairly.
It's clear that Ms Bs passport and credit cards were stolen while she was abroad. This had a 
knock-on impact on her ability to continue with the trip shed booked, especially as she no 
longer had a visa to enter A and wasnt able to obtain one in time. I dont doubt what a 
stressful and upsetting experience this mustve been for Ms B and I entirely understand why 
she felt she had no choice but to return to the UK sooner than shed planned.
As AWP explained, the curtailment section of the policy doesnt cover Ms Bs situation. The 
terms of the insurance contract clearly sets out a specific list of insured events AWP has 
chosen to cover if a policyholder needs to cut short their trip. And Ms Bs situation doesnt 
fall within that defined, specific list. This means I dont find it was unreasonable for AWP to 
conclude that Ms Bs claim wasnt covered under the curtailment section of the contract.
However, section F  Personal Effects clearly states:
What you are covered for
The insurer will pay for loss, theft or damage to:
Tickets up to £1,500
-Air or other tickets including reasonable expenses incurred as a result of loss, theft or 
damage.
So I think it ought to have been clear to AWP from the start that Ms B likely had a valid claim 
under this section of the policy. And I think it was fair and reasonable for AWP to go on to 
effectively assess Ms Bs curtailment claim under this section of the policy, in line with the 
applicable policy limits.
AWP calculated part of the settlement due by dividing the total cost of Ms Bs package trip 
by the total number of booked days to work out a daily rate and then multiplied this rate by 
the number of lost days. Thats because it didnt have evidence of the cost of the individual 
component parts of the package  and I appreciate the travel agent has confirmed that this 
is something it isnt able to provide. But in the absence of such evidence, I think AWP has 
used a fair and appropriate way to calculate the settlement due for the lost parts of Ms Bs 
package holiday.
Additionally, AWP has also now settled the cost of Ms Bs flight back from M to the UK. 
Again, I consider this was an appropriate response from AWP, which is in line with the policy terms.
However, from the evidence Ms B has provided, its clear that there are costs which AWP 
hasnt considered as part of its claim assessment. In particular, it hasnt considered the cost 
of the domestic flight between the UK airport and Ms Bs home airport. It has been sent 
evidence of the price of this flight and I think this is something it ought reasonably to 
consider. I say that because it formed part of Ms Bs early, return journey.
And Ms B has also provided evidence of other costs, including accommodation costs, which 
were booked outside of the package and which she indicates were partly unused due to the 
theft. It isnt at all clear from the evidence Ive seen that AWP ever considered these costs 
when it assessed and settled the claim. I find it must now assess these costs, in line with 
section F of the policy, to decide whether they are covered and if so, to what extent. 
To be clear, Im not directing AWP to settle any potential additional amounts. Its for AWP to 
now reassess Ms Bs claim, in light of the further evidence shes provided, and consider 
whether any of the further costs shes claimed are covered by section F, in line with the 
policy limits. And it will be for Ms B to provide AWP with any reasonable, additional 
information it might request. AWP must provide Ms B with a clear breakdown of its 
calculations in a simple and easily understandable format. If, following such a reassessment 
of the claim, Ms B is unhappy with the outcome of it, she may be able to bring a new 
complaint to us about that issue alone.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I dont think AWP met its regulatory obligation to 
handle Ms Bs claim promptly or that it treated Ms B fairly. I say that because, based on what 
Ive seen, it seems that she experienced unnecessary delays in the handling of her claim; 
that communications went unanswered and that there were errors made in the calculations 
of part of her theft claim. I think this is likely to have caused Ms B material additional 
frustration and inconvenience, on top of the general inconvenience caused by the need to 
make a claim. So I think its appropriate that AWP pays Ms B compensation to recognise the 
impact its handling of the claim had on her. And I agree that an award of £200 is fair to 
compensate Ms B for her trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to reconsider Ms Bs claim, in light of the new evidence shes provided 
and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and any applicable limits.
I also direct AWP to pay Ms B £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman