DRN-2748120
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out PPI policies in 1992, 1993 and 2002. The 1992 policy was to cover 
their existing mortgage which started in 1978 and the further advance they took out in 1992. 
The 1993 policy covered further borrowing they took out that year. Both these polices were 
cancelled in February 2002, around the time the 2002 policy was set up.
 
Nationwide cant confirm where the sales took place. Mr and Mrs B recall they were all in a 
branch. The 1992 policy was in Mr Bs sole name and gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. The 1993 and 2002 policies were in joint names and gave the same 
protection. They paid a monthly amount for each policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the
balance of probabilities  so, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence
and what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here. Mr and Mrs B made a number of comments in response to the adjudicators view. I 
have considered them all carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution 
service I will comment here only on those points I consider to be material to the outcome of 
their complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional  and they had to
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs B say they were told PPI was required. They signed all 
paperwork put in front of them after being told please sign here and here.
I cant know what was said in the meetings or how the PPI was presented, and Nationwide 
no longer has any of the paperwork from the 1992 or 1993 sales. This isnt unreasonable 
given how long ago the sales were. It says prior to Mr and Mrs B selecting PPI each time 
they would have been given a leaflet that explained the cover. It would have been their 
decision to take out the cover and to decide on the level of cover their policies provided.
I have thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs recollections, but I have to take into account
how long ago the sales were and how that might affect what they remember. They had taken 
out their main mortgage in 1978 without PPI. This suggests to me they would have known it 
was a separate, optional product. I accept they have disputed the finding that didnt take PPI 
in 1978 but they havent been able to provide any documentation to support their 
recollections. I do understand this is due to unfortunate circumstances beyond their control 
but Nationwide has no record of any PPI in their name(s) before 1992. Overall, without 
stronger evidence that Nationwide didnt make clear the PPI was optional in 1992 and 1993 
and Mrs and Mrs B didnt agree to take it, I cant fairly uphold their complaint on this point.
Nationwide has been able to provide a copy of the PPI application form Mr and Mrs B signed 
from the 2002 sale. This shows Mr and Mrs B made decisions about the level of cover they 
wanted; the claim and deferral period; and the amount of additional cover on top of their 
mortgage payment. This suggests to me they were engaged in the sales process. They both 
signed the form and I cant see anything on it that could reasonably have led them to believe 
it was mandatory.
Mr and Mrs B say the document is not dated and its more likely to be from the 1992 sale. I 
accept the form isnt dated, but the form shows they selected 12 months cover in joint 
names. This matches their 2002 policy as evidenced by screen shots Nationwide has 
provided - the 1992 policy gave 24 months cover in Mr Bs sole name. So I am satisfied the 
form is from the 2002 sale.
Overall, I think its most likely Nationwide made it clear in 2002 that the PPI was optional and 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to take it out. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it didnt have to check
the policies were right for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs B enough information so
they could decide for themselves whether they wanted to buy PPI. Its possible the
information Mr and Mrs B was given about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been.
But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policies if they had received better
information. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the policies given their circumstances at the time and
the policies terms and conditions.
They werent adversely affected by any of the terms limiting the policies main 
benefits, such as certain types of employment contract or pre-existing medical 
conditions. Whilst Mr B had a pre-existing medical condition it seems it was under 
control and not something that had caused him to take any significant periods of time 
off work. So I dont think he would have expected to need to make a related claim. 
And I think it unlikely they would have made different decisions with better 
information about the policies exclusions and limitations.
Mr B told us he was entitled to between three- and six-months sick pay and they
had savings worth at least six to 12 months salary. Mrs B cant recall her sick pay 
prior to her change in employment in 2001. In 2002 her employment handbook 
shows she would have been entitled to two months full pay and two months half 
pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their work benefits and for much 
longer - up to 24 months in 1992 (for Mr B) and 1993, and for up to 12 months in 
2002. It also gave them redundancy cover which would have allowed them to protect 
any lump sum redundancy payments giving increased financial stability at an already 
difficult time.
Mr B has provided details of their savings but not from the time of the sales. He 
argues unless theyd had earlier savings, regular investments later on would not have been possible. But from what Ive seen I cant fairly conclude they had access to 
such a level of easily-accessible savings at the time they took out PPI not to need it. 
They took out a number of further advances which could be argued doesnt suggest 
they had access to a significant level of savings. It would be unusual to pay interest 
to borrow in such circumstances. Plus the PPI would have allowed them to use any 
savings they had to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them 
intact for their future needs. 
Mr and Mrs B were borrowing large sums of money secured against their home. 
Given the serious consequences of missing repayments, I think the PPI wouldve 
have been useful for Mr and Mrs B if they were sick, had an accident or lost their 
job(s). And as they were paying monthly, they could cancel the PPI if their situation 
changed or they no longer wanted it. I note they made successful claims in 1997 and 
2001 on their PPI.
I dont know when the costs were first made clear, but the policies was reasonably 
priced for the benefit they offered and apparently affordable.
So, in summary, I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different decision if better
information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policies.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share on the 1992 and 1993 
policies (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. If 
Mr and Mrs B didnt cash the cheque, and need it to be re-issued, they should 
contact Nationwide.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their 2002 policy. Nationwide 
has told us that the commission for this policy was less than half of what they paid for each 
premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission was less than half the cost of 
the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission  so I 
dont think Nationwide treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs B 
back any of the commission they paid for the PPI in 2002. 
My final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman