DRN-3032483
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the support he received from Blue Motor Finance Limited (BMF).  
What happened
Mr B has a hire purchase agreement with BMF for a car he acquired in in 2019. The 
agreement was for around £17,500 with payments of around £400 per month. 
Mr B says he spoke to BMF in March 2020 to ask for help because his finances had been 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr B is a carer and says he didnt have as much work 
because of the pandemic. Mr B says BMF didnt offer enough support because his 
agreement was one month in arrears, due to a missed payment in February 2020. Mr B says 
BMF refused to help until the arrears were brought back up-to-date. 
Mr B wasnt able to make payment in March and April 2020. But he was able to make a 
payment in May 2020. Which is around the time Mr B spoke to BMF again asking for help. 
From what I can see, Mr B hasnt paid anything towards the agreement since. 
In summary, Mr B is unhappy with the support that BMF offered. He thinks it couldve done 
more to help  such as providing a payment deferral. Hes also questioned recently why his 
hire purchase agreement is showing as closed on a credit reference application he has.
BMF said it set up an online form for customers to request a payment deferral in April 2020. 
And that it looked at other options to help customers for unsuccessful applicants. 
Mr B wasnt happy with BMFs response so brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt make any recommendations. In 
summary, she said:
The agreement that was showing as closed on Mr Bs credit reference application 
relates to a different agreement. 
When Mr B spoke to BMF in March 2020 guidance relating to Covid-19 for car 
finance firms hadnt been released. So she didnt think BMF acted unfairly by failing 
to offer something thatd been set out in the Covid-19 guidance issued in April 2020. 
Mr Bs agreement had a previous history of missed payments so the Covid-19 
guidance may not have applied to him in any event. 
Things had moved on and the arrears had grown to over £4,000. 
Even if she was to recommend a payment deferral was retrospectively applied, Mr B 
would still be in substantial arrears which would need to be brought back up-to-date.
She let Mr B know that shed consider any evidence he had about his finances to see if the 
agreement could be brought back up-to-date.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He said the agreement that was 
showing as closed was his current hire purchase agreement with BMF. And he reiterated 
that BMF didnt offer enough support. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint that said:
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure Mr B and BMF that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr B is complaining about the support he received in relation to his hire purchase agreement 
as well as how it is being reported to the credit reference agencies. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and our service has the power to consider complaints relating to 
these sorts of agreements. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear Mr B has been adversely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
It cant have been easy and I appreciate the time and effort it has taken him to bring his 
complaint to our service. 
Support received
I think the main thing I need to decide is whether BMF gave enough support to Mr B when 
he asked for help. If I think things havent gone as they should have done then I need to 
decide what, if anything, BMF will need to do to put things right. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr B and BMF in March 2020. Mr B spoke to BMF because 
hed missed his payment the previous month. He explained his income had been impacted 
due to Covid-19. And he was worried he might have to self-isolate. BMF let him know that if 
he brought the agreement back up-to-date, it could explore coming to a payment 
arrangement with him from March 2020 onwards. It let him know it had a policy for dealing 
with customers impacted by Covid-19 but didnt elaborate. Mr B said he was trying really 
hard to sort out his finances and that he intended to bring the agreement up-to-date. 
When Mr B spoke to BMF in March 2020, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance on 
Covid-19 for car finance firms hadnt yet been released. However, there was still guidance 
for treating consumers with forbearance that businesses were expected to follow. This is set 
out in the CONC rulebook which can be found in the FCA handbook. Under CONC 7.3.4 it 
says A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. CONC 7.3.6 goes onto say Where a customer is in default or in arrears 
difficulties, a firm should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the 
debt.
I think BMF could have done more to show that it was treating Mr B with forbearance and 
due consideration. While the advisor didnt say Mr B had to pay off the arrears immediately, 
he implied that BMF would only be prepared to support Mr B with a payment arrangement if 
he paid off the arrears first. I think BMF could have offered more support here or tried to gain 
a better understanding of Mr Bs situation and what he could sustainably afford to pay 
towards his agreement. It was an uncertain time for many people, including Mr B. And as it 
turned out, despite indicating he intended to bring the agreement up-to-date, he wasnt able 
to, and the agreement went further in to arrears.
Mr B fell a further two payments behind. And during this time BMF did try to contact him by 
various contact methods. It looks like Mr B told BMF hed try to make a payment in April 2020 but wasnt able to. Mr B did, however, contact BMF by email in May 2020. He 
requested a payment deferral, but this was declined because at this point he was nearly 
£1,200 behind in his payments. BMF did email Mr B some questions to enable it to consider 
setting up a payment arrangement. Mr B spoke to an advisor at BMF after the email 
exchange and was also told that he couldnt get a payment holiday because he was in 
arrears. The advisor told Mr B that hed effectively given himself a payment holiday. 
Its important to note that by the point Mr B spoke to BMF in May 2020, the FCA had formally 
released guidance in respect of financial difficulties arising as a result of Covid-19. This 
came into effect on 27 April 2020. The guidance was for Exceptional and immediate support 
to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus. 
The guidance set out that eligible customers should be able to request a payment deferral 
for a period of three months. But the guidance also said, Where a customer was in pre-
existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC would 
continue to apply. 
On the one hand Mr Bs agreement was up-to-date before he missed his payments from 
February 2020 onwards. And he says the reason he fell behind was due to Covid-19. So 
taking that in isolation I would say the FCA guidance was intended for customers like Mr B. 
On the other hand, Mr Bs agreement had a history of missed payments since inception. And 
even though the agreement was always brought up-to-date, BMF may have had legitimate 
concerns that Mr B showed signs of pre-existing financial difficulty. BMF also implied by 
email it would consider setting up a payment arrangement  a supportive step to take.   
 
However, to my mind, the advisor was not at all sympathetic to Mr Bs situation. It didnt 
sound like he was looking for a way to support Mr B. Options werent explored. An 
assessment of what Mr B could realistically afford wasnt discussed. I think BMF missed an 
opportunity here to at the very least gain a decent understanding of Mr Bs situation. As it 
turned out, while Mr B did make one further payment in May 2020, the relationship 
completely broke down and no payments have been made since. 
Well never know what would have happened had BMF provided Mr B with the support that, 
in my view, he should have received. And Im conscious the FCA issued further guidance in 
July 2020 that enabled eligible customers to apply for a further three-month deferral. Mr Bs 
situation may have improved by that point and he might have been able to carry on making 
the full contractual payments towards his agreement. 
How to put things right
Ive thought about what fair and reasonable options there are now. Mr B is significantly 
behind on his payments. Hes not told us whether his current financial situation has improved 
to the extent that he can continue making contractual payments towards the agreement. And 
its not clear whether hes been putting the money aside each month to cover his payments. I 
must take all of this in to consideration. 
As a starting point, I think its fair that Mr B is given the benefit of the doubt and is provided 
with a payment deferral for six months from February 2020. This would cover the period from 
February 2020 to August 2020 because one payment was made in May 2020. Mr B told 
BMF in March 2020 his income had been negatively affected by Covid-19 and I have no 
reason to doubt what hes said. Even though his agreement had previous arrears, it was up-
to-date by the time he fell behind. So I think it would be fair for him to receive the full deferral 
as per the FCA guidance. 
Turning now to the outstanding balance, I think there are three viable options:1. Allow Mr B a period of time to bring the agreement up-to-date (aside from the six-
month deferral period). I think 60 days from acceptance of a final decision is a fair 
amount of time.  And Mr B should be allowed to continue paying the agreement with 
adverse data from his credit file removed. 
2. Allow Mr B to agree a reasonable repayment plan for the arrears (aside from the six-
month deferral period) alongside restarting regular payments. Mr B would need to 
indicate hes willing and able to resume his normal repayments along with what extra 
amount is affordable. 
3. If Mr B is unable to come to an arrangement, and if BMF wished to start recovery 
proceedings, I dont think this would be unreasonable. But I would expect it to liaise 
with Mr B about the outstanding balance and come to an arrangement with him to 
sustainably repay the debt. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the deferred payments would still be owed by Mr B to BMF 
under each of the above options.
Mr B has had use of the car throughout. So it wouldnt be fair to direct BMF to write-off the 
arrears. BMF own the car, and its value has been depreciating. So I also dont think it would 
be fair to direct BMF to effectively allow Mr B to recommence making payments from now on 
without an arrangement to clear the arrears having been made first. 
Reporting of Mr Bs agreement to the credit reference agencies
Mr B showed us evidence his agreement with BMF was removed from one of his credit 
reference applications. Our investigator said this related to a previous agreement. But I dont 
agree. From looking at the account number I think the agreement that was removed from 
Mr Bs application was his current one with BMF. 
I contacted BMF about the reporting of the agreement before issuing this provisional 
decision. Its checked and said its reporting correctly to the credit reference agencies. And it 
said its seen instances of accounts being removed where the error has originated with the 
credit reference agencies. Its not clear whats happened here. If Mr B is still finding his 
agreement is not being reported correctly and he can demonstrate that to BMF, I think it fair 
that BMF contact the relevant agency to ensure its reporting is accurate. 
Summary
All things considered, I think BMF could have done more to support Mr B when he contacted 
it in early 2020. I think it fair hes given the benefits of the six-month payment deferral. But 
things have moved on. So, I also think it fair hes given the opportunity to bring things up-to-
date or come to a reasonable arrangement. Failing that, I dont find I have the grounds to 
say that BMF shouldnt be allowed to start recovery proceedings. And if Mr Bs agreement is 
not being reported correctly, I consider it fair that BMF take steps to ensure that is resolved 
as well. 
I recommended BMF:
1. Contact the relevant credit reference agencies to ensure Mr Bs agreement is being 
reported correctly, upon receipt of reasonable evidence from him of there still being 
an issue.
2. Grant Mr B a six-month payment deferral from February 2020. BMF should arrange to remove adverse credit information for that period.
3. Allow Mr B 60 days from acceptance of a final decision to bring the agreement up-to-
date (aside from the six-month deferral period). And allow Mr B to continue with the 
agreement, with adverse credit information for the non-deferred period to be 
removed; or
4. Allow Mr B to continue his normal repayments and agree a reasonable payment 
arrangement for the arrears.
If Mr B is unable to bring the agreement back up-to-date within 60 days of acceptance of a 
final decision or come to an arrangement with BMF, and should BMF start recovery 
proceedings, I would expect it to liaise with Mr B about the outstanding balance and come to 
an arrangement with him to sustainably repay the debt.
Mr B accepted the provisional decision. And said hed like to enter into a payment 
arrangement. Mr B told us hes due to start a new job and thinks he would be able to pay 
BMF a total of £600 per month once hes started work. 
BMF reiterated it thought the FCA Covid-19 guidance for car finance firms was not intended 
for customers who were already in arears prior to Covid-19. And it said that it has allowed 
Mr B to continue on in the agreement while attempting to assist with reduced payments. But 
it said it would allow Mr B to bring the account up-to-date as set out in my provisional 
decision. 
We also put Mr Bs offer to pay £600 per month to BMF and it has accepted it. But it wanted 
to highlight that the car would be at risk of repossession if Mr B missed any payments 
without prior agreement.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see no reason to change my directions under points 1 and 2 above. Mr B hasnt said he 
can clear the arrears within 60 days, but I will leave the third direction in place in case he 
wishes to do so.
Turning next to point 4. BMF is willing to accept Mr Bs offer of £600 per month. Which 
seems like a fair way to resolve the complaint. And I dont think its unfair of BMF to warn 
Mr B the car will be at risk of repossession if he misses payments without prior agreement. 
BMF wants Mr B to commence making payments immediately. Id remind it that he has four 
weeks to decide if he wishes to accept the final decision. And if Mr B does accept the 
decision, Id urge him to speak to BMF as soon as possible to set up the payment 
arrangement. 
All things considered, for the reasons given above, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
I direct Blue Motor Finance Limited to:
1. Contact the relevant credit reference agencies to ensure Mr Bs agreement is being 
reported correctly, upon receipt of reasonable evidence from him of there still being an issue.
2. Grant Mr B a six-month payment deferral from February 2020. BMF should arrange 
to remove adverse credit information for that period.
3. Allow Mr B 60 days from acceptance of a final decision to bring the agreement up-to-
date (aside from the six-month deferral period). And allow Mr B to continue with the 
agreement, with adverse credit information for the non-deferred period to be 
removed; or
4. Allow Mr B to continue his normal repayments and agree a reasonable payment 
arrangement for the arrears.
If Mr B is unable to bring the agreement back up-to-date within 60 days of acceptance of this 
decision or come to an arrangement with BMF, and should BMF start recovery proceedings, 
I would expect it to liaise with Mr B about the outstanding balance and come to an 
arrangement with him to sustainably repay the debt.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Limited to put 
things right in the way set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman