DRN-2454684
The complaint
Mr B complains about Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money and the length of 
time it took them to issue him a refund after a payment was collected from his current 
account.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with Madison. On his January 2020 statement, his account 
showed that there was a payment of £233.95 overdue. 
Mr B made a payment of £15 on 5 February. But as Mr Bs account had been overdue since 
March 2019, Madison sent Mr B a text message to explain the overdue amount needed to 
be paid. The text message advised Mr B to reply to text if he authorised them to take the full 
amount from his current account, or to contact them directly to discuss alternative repayment 
options. 
Mr B replied to the text message explaining his intention to pay the overdue amount in 
instalments. But Madison took this reply as authorisation to take the full amount and they 
took the remaining about of £218.95 on 7 February. But Mr B was unhappy with this and 
spoke to Madison to the same day to ask for the amount to be refunded. This refund wasnt 
processed until 21 February and Mr B chased Madison for updates on several occasions 
during this time. He wasnt happy about the length of time the refund took, so raised a 
complaint.
Mr B complained about Madisons decision to take the payment without his authorisation and 
then the length of time it took them to process his refund. He explained it had caused him a 
great deal of stress and upset and wanted to be compensation £150 plus the 8% interest for 
the time he was without the amount in his account. 
Madison responded and partially upheld his complaint. They didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong when taking the payment as Mr B had replied to the text message rather 
than following the instructions to contact them directly to discuss a plan. And they thought 
they acted fairly when agreeing to refund the amount after Mr B made them aware he didnt 
intend to authorise it. But they agreed there had been unreasonable delays when processing 
the refund and offered Mr B £50 to recognise this and the impact it had. Mr B remained 
unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Madison had 
acted fairly when taking the payment, as Mr Bs reply contained the word needed to 
authorise the payment. She thought Madisons instructions were clear that Mr B should call 
them if he needed to agree a repayment plan. But she agreed Madison hadnt processed the 
refund in a reasonable amount of time. She explained the interest Mr B lost wouldve 
equated to less than one pound. So, considering this, she thought Madisons offer of £50 
was a fair one and didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree as he thought the offer of £50 wasnt enough to recognise the 
inconvenience hed been caused. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting to see the payment taken from his account when he felt he hadnt authorised 
Madison to do so. And I can understand Mr Bs frustration when it took two weeks to have 
this amount credited back into his account. Madison have accepted they took an 
unreasonable amount of time to process the refund and offered Mr B £50 to recognise this. 
So, Ive considered whether I think this offer is a fair one.
But before considering what compensation would be fair to recognise the refund delay, 
which isnt in dispute, Ive first thought about whether Madison acted reasonably when taking 
the payment in the first place.
Ive seen on Mr Bs January 2020 statement; his account was £233.95 overdue. So, even 
though he made a payment of £15 on 5 February, an amount of £218.95 still needed to be 
paid. And Ive seen from Mr Bs previous statements that his account had been overdue 
since March 2019. So, I dont think Madison acted unfairly by contacting Mr B to arrange full 
payment or agree a repayment plan to ensure this amount was paid.
They did so by text message on 7 February. The text message said you're significantly 
behind on your 118 Card payments. If a payment of £218.95 is not made soon, your account 
may be sold to a Debt Collection Agency. Reply 'PAY' to authorise a payment using the debit 
card details we hold for you. To discuss alternative payment options, or if your 
circumstances have changed, please call us on 08000 118 444.
Mr B responded to this text message saying, Im paying bit by bit. And Madison have 
explained as the message contained the phrase pay, it was picked up by a service agent as 
an authorisation to take the full amount. I understand it wasnt Mr Bs intention to authorise 
the payment and I also appreciate his full message indicated this as well. 
But I think Madison provided Mr B with clear instructions which explained he should contact 
them using the number provided if he couldnt authorise the full payment. And Mr B didnt do 
this. As he replied to the text message, and as his message contained the phrase Madison 
asked him to include if he wanted to authorise the payment, I can understand why Madison 
proceeded to take it. And because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to say this was 
unreasonable. So, I cant say they did anything wrong by doing so.
Ive then turned to the refund of the payment. Its not disputed that Madison took an 
unreasonable amount of time. Mr B requested a refund on 7 February, and it wasnt 
processed until 21 February, some two weeks later. So, Mr B was without this amount for 
that period of time and as he hadnt intended to authorise the payment, I think this wouldve 
been inconvenient. And Ive seen Mr B chased Madison on several occasion for an update 
on the process of his refund, which wouldve been frustrating. Had Madison processed the 
refund in a reasonable time frame, I dont think Mr B wouldve needed to do this.So, I think Mr B should be compensate for this inconvenience and frustration. Madison 
offered Mr B £50 as part of their complaint response to recognise this. And this offer is line 
with the amount I wouldve suggest had an offer not been made. Because of this, I dont 
think Madison need to do anything more.
Im also aware Mr B has stated he wanted to be refunded interest on the amount taken for 
the period it took to be refunded back into his account. The interest on £218.95 over a two-
week period would equate to less than £1. Because of this, I think the £50 already offered 
covers this loss of interest, and dont think Madison need to offer anything more to cover 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Madison CF UK 
Limited trading as 118 118 Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman