DRN-3951743
The complaint
Mr S complained because Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money:
- wouldnt open a fraud investigation until hed obtained a crime reference number 
from the police; 
- charged him cash withdrawal fees; 
- reported the withdrawals on his credit file;
- didnt provide a timely response to his complaint.
What happened
On 12 November 2022, Mr S rang Virgin and said hed lost his credit card. He said hed 
written down his PIN, which hed kept in his wallet with the credit card. This meant that Ms S 
had broken the terms and conditions of the account, which say:
13.1 You, and any additional cardholder, must:
-sign any card as soon as you receive it.
-take all reasonable steps to keep your card, card details, PIN and passwords safe, 
including destroying anything we send you with your PIN on it.
13.2 You, and any additional cardholder, must never: 
- share, write down or store your PIN in a way that is obvious to others or keep it with 
your card.
Three cash machine withdrawals had taken place on 10 November: two for £200 each and 
one for £50. Mr S told Virgin that he hadnt made these. Virgin stopped the card, but told Mr 
S that he needed to contact the police and report this, and get a Crime Reference Number. 
Virgin said it would investigate once Mr S had rung back with this.
On 14 November, Mr S rang back with a Crime Reference Number, and Virgin credited the 
three disputed transactions back to Mr Ss account. 
On 21 November, Mr S saw on his statement that hed been charged £22.50 in fees for 
having withdrawn cash on his account. This related to the three disputed transactions. He 
had to ring Virgin again, but it took 40 minutes to get through. Mr S also found out that his 
credit file had been affected, because Virgin had reported that hed made cash withdrawals 
on a credit card, which had adversely impacted his credit score. Mr S complained.
Virgin credited back the fees for having withdrawn cash, but Mr S didnt get a response to his 
complaint. He contacted this service in mid-January 2023.
Mr S told us that hed lost his card on a night out in November 2022. He said someone must 
have picked it up and used the card and PIN to make the disputed cash withdrawals. He 
said that a couple of days later hed noticed the card had gone, and had phoned Virgin. Mr S 
was unhappy about three things:
- Virgin had told him that it wouldnt investigate without a Crime Reference Number. Mr 
S wasnt happy about this, and Virgin said it only required this on certain claims. Mr S 
asked Virgin why it needed a Crime Reference Number, and was told him it would 
just keep it on file. So Mr S said this was just to discourage him from making a claim. 
He explained that hed spent several hours filling in the police report, as well as 
several hours making phone calls to Virgin;
- Hed been charged for the cash withdrawals, and Virgin should have prevented these 
when it refunded the disputed amounts;
- He sent us a copy of his credit score, which showed a reduction between the two 
relevant months, and also a credit card advisory note saying cash withdrawals had 
been recorded on his credit file and he should avoid credit card cash withdrawals 
because it could adversely affect his credit score.
Our investigator contacted Virgin, and in early February, Virgin replied to Mr Ss complaint. It 
rang him, but Mr S couldnt get through to the right person in Customer Relations and was 
transferred to the wrong team, then had to wait to be rung back. 
In its final response letter, Virgin said that:
- it understood that Mr S had been frustrated at having to obtain a Crime Reference 
Number, but that was Virgins normal process when a credit card might have been 
stolen;
- it apologised that Mr S had had to contact Virgin again when he found out that fees 
for cash withdrawals had been debited;
- it apologised that there had been long call waiting times, and it had also been difficult 
for Mr S to get through to the complaint handler that day;
- it had asked its specialist operations team to investigate and remove any adverse 
reporting on Mr Ss credit file.
Virgin said that Mr Ss credit card now showed a zero balance. It offered him £75 as a 
gesture of goodwill to compensate for any distress and inconvenience.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, and told us that he wanted to continue his 
complaint. He said that £75 didnt account for all the time it had taken him to get a crime 
reference number; the difficulty in getting through to Virgin; impact on his credit score; and 
being passed through to the wrong person multiple times. Mr S said it had taken him four 
hours to get a Crime Reference Number, and he felt it should have been up to Virgin to 
report to the police and obtain the number.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said that it was Virgins policy to ask 
customers to obtain a Crime Reference Number before opening a fraud investigation. She 
said this wasnt a legislative requirement, but she thought it wasnt unreasonable to ask for 
this when a customer had been a victim or a crime, especially as it wasnt particularly 
onerous.
The investigator noted that Virgin had agreed that it should have credited the cash advance 
fees when Mr S reported the problem, and his credit report shouldnt have been affected. 
Virgin had also accepted that if it had handled Mr Ss call about the disputed transactions 
correctly, Mr S wouldnt have had to ring Virgin as many times and wouldnt have had the 
long waiting times. But she thought that £75 compensation offered by Virgin fairly reflected 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S didnt agree with his complaint not being upheld, in particular in relation to the need for 
the Crime Reference Number. He said he believed it was unreasonable for Virgin to have 
refused to open a fraud claim until a customer had obtained a Crime Reference Number  
and he also disagreed with the investigators comment that obtaining one isnt onerous. He 
said it had taken him four hours to work with his local police to get a crime report submitted, 
so that a Crime Reference Number could be issued. He thought a four-hour task was 
beyond what would be reasonable for a company to impose on a customer in order to have 
a fraud claim opened. He said that was particularly the case because Virgin had already said 
it believed the withdrawals were fraudulent. He said that Virgin should have obtained the Crime Reference Number because it was Virgin which was the victim of the fraud. Mr S 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three parts to Mr Ss complaint, which Ill deal with separately.
Need to obtain a Crime Reference Number
I recognise that it was frustrating to have to get a Crime Reference Number when Virgin had 
acknowledged to Mr S that it wouldnt use it but would just keep it on file. And certainly there 
are other banks which dont require this, and it also isnt required for any regulatory function. 
But this service isnt the deciding body for a banks procedural decisions. Thats the role of 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So I cant comment on Virgins decision 
here, nor order it to change this requirement.
I think its unlikely, however, that this would have taken Mr S four hours to obtain a Crime 
Reference Number from the police. Online reporting doesnt take that long, and on some 
websites there is a time-out after 40 minutes. And I dont agree with Mr S that it was up to 
Virgin to obtain a Crime Reference Number if it wanted one. The alleged crime had been 
committed against Mr S, so it was for him to pursue with the police if he wished to pursue his 
claim.
Being charged for the disputed cash withdrawals
Given that Virgin had decided that it would refund Mr S, it would have been consistent for 
Virgin to have stopped the charges for withdrawing cash on a credit card. But it failed to do 
this, meaning that Mr S had to chase this up. Virgin did refund them when Mr S raised this, 
but there had been very long call waiting times. So I accept that Mr S suffered distress and 
inconvenience from Virgins error in relation to this.
Credit reference records
Taking out cash on a credit card would be likely to reduce a credit score, for the reasons set 
out on the message to Mr S  it can signal to potential lenders that an individual is 
overspending. Again, Virgin did put this right as soon as Mr S raised it, but I accept that 
there would have been distress and inconvenience from this.
Compensation
When considering compensation, this looks at two elements: financial loss, and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
There isnt any financial loss here, because Virgin refunded Mr S for the disputed 
transactions.
Looking at compensation for distress and inconvenience, Ive set out above that the two 
relevant elements here are the issues of the charges for cash withdrawals, and the reporting 
to Mr Ss credit file. I accept that these caused not only frustration, but also the 
inconvenience of having to make extra phone calls, at times when the call waiting times 
were unacceptably long. I acknowledge that Mr S also complained because Virgin didnt issue its final response within the deadline. But he knew he was able to complain to this 
service, and did so, and there was no financial loss at issue. So I dont consider there was 
any additional distress or inconvenience as a result of Virgins failure to meet the deadline in 
these particular circumstances.
Ive considered the £75 compensation which Virgin offered Mr S, and I think that was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Its not clear to me whether or not Virgin has paid the £75 to Mr S which it offered in its final 
response letter. If it hasnt, I order Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Virgin Money, to pay Mr 
S £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience in relation to the charges for cash 
withdrawals, long phone waits, and reporting the disputed transactions to his credit file.  I do 
not uphold Mr Ss complaint for additional compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman