DRN-1237693
The complaint
Ms H complains about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc after she told them 
her debit card had gone missing.
What happened
Ms H has a current account with HSBC. Early last year, Ms H lost her debit card. When she 
tried to report her card missing, Ms H says she experienced difficulties speaking with 
HSBC's advisers. But when she eventually managed to speak with someone, she requested 
that her new debit card be non-contactless, and the adviser confirmed that would be 
arranged. During this call Ms H was also offered £60 in recognition of the problems she 
experienced when trying to get through to an HSBC adviser.
When Ms H's new debit card arrived, she noticed it was contactless. So she got in touch with 
HSBC and complained. Ms H said she wanted £200 to resolve her complaint. HSBC looked 
into what had happened and issued their final response. In this they apologised for their 
mistake in sending Ms H the wrong card and told Ms H a non-contactless card would be sent 
to her. They also agreed to pay Ms H £200 in recognition of their mistake.
A few days after receiving HSBC's final response letter, Ms H received another contactless 
debit card. So she complained to HSBC again. She also let them know that not having the 
correct debit card meant she was having to travel to HSBC branches to withdraw cash. She 
was also concerned that she would have to use her credit card to withdraw cash and this 
would involve further expenses. Ms H said she expected HSBC to compensate her for the 
inconvenience and worry they were causing her.
There was additional correspondence between Ms H and HSBC arranging how the new 
debit card should to be sent to Ms H. During this time, Ms H also explained she wanted 
HSBC to compensate her £50 per day she was without a non-contactless debit card.
After looking into what had happened since their final response letter, HSBC sent Ms H a 
non-contactless debit card, and offered her £100 for the inconvenience they had caused. 
They also told Ms H that the cash balance of her credit card would be transferred to the retail 
balance. This meant she wouldn't be charged interest on the amounts she withdrew until 
mid-March 2020. Ms H remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint about this, and a 
number of other issues, to our service. 
Our investigator confirmed this case would only comment on the issues Ms H experienced 
when trying to replace her debit card. And a separate case has been set up for Ms H's other 
complaint about HSBC.
Our investigator didn't uphold Ms H's complaint because he felt the total amount HSBC had 
offered was a fair resolution. Ms H disagreed, so her complaint was passed to me to 
investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Ms H's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome she hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
It's not disputed that when Ms H first told HSBC her debit card was missing, she specifically 
asked for her new card to be non-contactless. HSBC is able to give their customers non-
contactless cards, so they should have taken steps to ensure Ms H was sent the correct 
card, the first time. As HSBC didn't do this, I would expect them to put things right. 
Ms H went without the debit card she asked for, for approximately four weeks. And she's 
asked for compensation equal to £50 per day for this period of time. Ms H feels this fairly 
reflects the worry and inconvenience she experienced while waiting for a new card. That's 
because she had concerns over the security of contactless cards and carrying around cash 
while she didn't have use of the type of debit card she'd asked for. She also had the 
inconvenience of having to travel to HSBC branches to withdraw money from her account.
HSBC has offered Ms H a total of £360 for the service they provided after she lost her debit 
card. And Ms H is unhappy the amount HSBC has offered doesn't match what she asked 
for. So the crux of this complaint is whether HSBC's offer goes far enough to recognise the 
stress and inconvenience their mistakes caused Ms H.
As mentioned above, HSBC offered Ms H £60 for their handling of her calls when she tried 
to tell them her debit card had gone missing. And they also offered £200 when they found 
out she had been sent a contactless card after she had specifically asked for a   non-
contactless card. Looking at the communication between Ms H and HSBC, it seems Ms H 
accepted these offers for those specific issues. But it seems Ms H felt the need to escalate 
her complaint after HSBC sent her the wrong type of debit card again.
I've reviewed the correspondence between Ms H and HSBC, and I'm satisfied they took Ms 
H's concerns about her debit card seriously. I was particularly pleased to see how quickly 
they let her know she wouldn't be charged interest (until mid-March 2020) on the money she 
withdrew from her credit card. They also sent her a new non-contactless card, and took 
steps to find out if Ms H had received it. When Ms H confirmed she hadn't, they proactively 
arranged for a new card to be sent by special post to prevent additional delays. Ordinarily, 
that would be something we would expect a financial business to do - particularly as Ms H 
had mentioned she was incurring expenses when travelling to and from her local 
HSBC branch. However, after Ms H found out about this arrangement, she explained it 
wasn't suitable for her and that the new card was best sent to an HSBC branch. 
So, HSBC did the right thing and had the card delivered to Ms H's chosen branch. I've seen 
Ms H was able to activate her new debit card shortly after this.
I agree it would have been frustrating for Ms H not to have the type of card she had 
specifically requested. And HSBC's mistake meant Ms H had to contact them on a number 
of occasions to sort things out. However, I can't ignore the fact Ms H did have access to 
what I assume were working debit cards while she waited for a non-contactless debit card. 
And she always had the option not to use the contactless feature on those cards. And in 
doing that, she could have reduced the number of trips she needed to make to 
HSBC branches to withdraw cash. She also would have lessened the understandable safety 
concerns that come with carrying large amounts of cash on your person. And because of 
this, I don't think it would be appropriate to award Ms H £50 per day she didn't have a non-
contactless debit card.
As mentioned above, HSBC have acknowledged they could have done things better. And 
they've offered Ms H a total of £360 in recognition of their mistakes over the four week period complained about. They also transferred the cash balance of Ms H's credit card to the 
retail balance. This means she doesn't have to pay interest on the amounts she withdrew 
until the middle of March 2020. This is broadly in line with what I would have awarded 
if HSBC had not already taken steps to put things right. So, in light of this, I'm satisfied with 
the way HSBC has tried to resolve Ms H's complaint. And it's for this reason I won't be 
asking them to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Ms H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman