DRN-3129896
The complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by her son, Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited 
mishandled her loan account and didnt respond to an offer from her solicitor.
What happened
Our investigator set out the series of events which led up to the complaint and for the sake of 
brevity I will set out only the key facts. However, I would like to assure both parties that I 
have read their representations and evidence in full, but I will only address the issues which 
are directly relevant to the complaint. 
Mrs B was unhappy with the workmanship on a new conservatory which had been funded by 
a loan from Shawbrook. She engaged a solicitor who sought to negotiate a reduction in the 
sum due to settle the loan. No agreement was reached. Shawbrook offered a reduction of 
£3,768.36 which include compensation of £500 for the banks poor service. 
The solicitor offered a sum of £6,791.27 to settle the matter and sent a cheque for this sum 
on 29 May 2019. This fell short of the sum Shawbrook was seeking to clear the account.
Shawbrook banked the cheque but didnt acknowledge its receipt and reiterated its offer in a 
final response letter dated 11 July 2019. Mrs B didnt accept Shawbrooks offer and the 
account remained open.
Shawbrook admitted it had not responded to the solicitor when it should have done, but it 
said that this didnt mean it had accepted the reduced offer and payment. It apologised for 
the lack of a response but did not offer any compensation. 
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He explained that he couldnt consider the original complaint about the 
conservatory but could consider the handling of the loan reduction. He said the offer by 
Shawbrook was reasonable, but the customer service levels were poor. It had not responded 
in a timely fashion to the solicitor and at one point claimed incorrectly it wasnt authorised to 
do so. He thought compensation of £200 was merited for the poor customer service and 
poor communications. Mr B asked if the complaint could be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator I am restricted to considering the handling of the reduction in the sum 
due and not the original cause of the problem. It is clear Mrs B has had a challenging time 
and has incurred solicitors costs. However, I cannot ask that these be covered as it was her 
choice, albeit an understandable one, to engage professional help.
Shawbrook was not obliged to accept the offer made by the solicitors and it had already told 
them what it considered to be a fair and reasonable offer. Submitting a cheque in a reduced 
sum does not guarantee that it must be accepted as a full and final settlement if it is banked. 
However, it would have been better had the bank responded and made its position clear. 
Shawbrook took an extended period time to provide clarification.
I can see why Mrs B and her son thought that this may have been the end of the matter and 
they will have been disappointed when it turned out otherwise. That said, I cannot safely say 
that the bank should forgo the outstanding balance because of the delay in responding. It 
has not handled the matter terribly well, but it has lent Mrs B a sizable sum and it is entitled 
to have the reduced sum repaid. 
However, I would remind Shawbrook of its obligation to treat Mrs B positively and 
sympathetically in helping her repay any money due.
As I have said above Shawbrooks customer service has fallen short. The bank made 
several errors in relation to dealing with the solicitors and Mr B. It had authority to deal with 
both, but somehow lost sight of this. It also contacted her when she had asked that all 
correspondence go via her solicitors. It has offered £500 for the original complaint, but this is 
a separate matter and I agree with our investigator that further compensation should be paid. 
I agree that first compensation of £200 should be paid to Mrs B.
Putting things right
Shawbrook should compensate Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay 
£200 to Mrs B as compensation for the trouble and upset it customer service failings caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman