DRN-2883005
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG - trading as ERV UK (ERV) has 
refused their claim for a cancelled trip under their travel insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to ERV also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out an annual multi-trip travel policy with ERV to cover trips within 
Europe. The cover under the policy started in June 2019. In March 2020, Mr and Mrs D 
upgraded their policy to include cover for cruise travel and took out the additional travel 
disruption extension cover as an optional extra.
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs D booked a cruise trip, departing in September 2020. In May 
2020, following the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against all but 
essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs D decided to cancel their 
cruise holiday and made a claim to ERV for the deposit they had lost.
ERV didnt agree to pay the claim. It said that, although the policy did provide cover for trips 
cancelled if the FCO advised against travel, at the time Mr and Mrs D decided to cancel 
there wasnt a known restriction in place for the dates of the trip. In addition, ERV said that if 
Mr and Mrs D had waited until the FCO advice was in place for their intended travel dates, 
the cruise company would have refunded their deposit to them. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs D complained to ERV and brought their complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. She found the travel disruption extension to the policy did cover trips cancelled 
due to advice against travel provided by the FCO. But she also said the advice from the FCO 
was changing continually between May and September and this meant some people were 
able to travel during this time. She didnt find that the advice in May clearly indicated travel 
wouldnt be possible in September  so couldnt say that the cancellation was necessary at 
that time. And she also noted the cruise was cancelled by the travel company at a later date 
as a result of the FCO advice and so if Mr and Mrs D had waited, there would have been no 
claim made as they would have been fully refunded by the cruise company. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our investigators opinion. They said at the time of cancelling 
the trip the FCO was advising against travel and therefore they had a valid claim. They also 
referred to another claim they made for a different holiday which was also cancelled around 
three months before travel which was paid by ERV. Mr and Mrs D said ERV had set a 
precedent by paying the first claim and so it should settle this claim.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The policy Mr and Mrs D took out includes terms and conditions relating to the cover 
provided. The relevant parts are as follows:
Section 15 Optional Travel Disruption Extension
Extended Cancellation or Curtailment cover
What is covered:
We will pay youfor any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costsif you 
were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation or the trip was curtailed before 
completion as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to; or
b) recommending evacuation from the country, or specific area or event to which you were 
travelling, 
Mr and Mrs D say as there was advice not to travel in place when they cancelled the trip in 
May 2020, the claim should be covered. ERV has said that, whilst travel restrictions were in 
place when Mr and Mrs D cancelled, there was no indication this was to cover trips in 
September, some three months later. And it is for this reason it has declined the claim. So, 
what I need to consider is whether ERV acted fairly and reasonably, when refusing to meet 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
Having looked at the relevant policy terms, it is clear that cover is provided if you are unable 
to travel as a result of the FCO advice. But at the time Mr and Mrs D decided to cancel, they 
couldnt have known that this advice would still be in force three months later, when they 
were due to travel. The situation regarding coronavirus and the pandemic was very unusual, 
leading to the guidance for many aspects of the restrictions being reviewed and altered on a 
regular basis. It was therefore possible for the FCO advice to change in the period before 
Mr and Mrs Ds trip (and the advice regarding travel did change a number of times prior to 
the intended date of their holiday). Im not persuaded that the FCO advice from the time of 
their cancellation showed they were unable to travel in September 2020  so I dont think it 
was necessary at that point to cancel the holiday. And, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for ERV to decline the claim on that basis.
Ive also noted that Mr and Mrs Ds cruise was in fact cancelled by the provider at a later 
date as a result of FCO advice  Mr and Mrs D say they were right to cancel as the trip didnt 
go ahead. But Mr and Mrs D would have received a full refund from the cruise company in 
that case. This means they wouldnt have suffered any financial loss, and therefore they 
wouldnt have needed to make an insurance claim. So, by cancelling early they have 
prejudiced ERVs position.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs D may have wanted to cancel the trip when they did due to 
the situation with the pandemic  Ive noted they told our investigator they didnt feel 
comfortable travelling at this time  Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable here to 
direct ERV to pay their claim given they cancelled so far in advance. Mr and Mrs D have referred to another claim they made to ERV for a holiday cancelled for 
the same reason. They say this trip was also cancelled some months in advance and ERV 
paid the claim. Mr and Mrs D say ERV set a precedent by settling this other claim and so it 
should therefore also pay this claim. 
I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs D feel the information about their other claim should be 
taken into consideration. But it is important to note that complaints are considered on their 
own individual merits, based on the specific circumstances of that case. The complaint made 
to this service relates to rejection of the claim they submitted for their cancelled cruise and, 
based on the information and evidence supplied in relation to that claim, I think ERV has 
acted fairly when making that decision. So, this doesnt alter my outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman