DRN-3686682
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard closed her account 
and breached General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) rules. 
Miss S is represented by her partner in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Miss S herself.
What happened
Miss S was accepted for a Barclaycard credit card. As she needed to update her address, 
she rang Barclaycards customer services. When she was going through the security 
questions, she says her partner helped her by providing the last few digits of her phone 
number, but the call handler told her she didnt pass security even though the answer was 
correct. Miss S says that she wanted her partner to speak on her behalf to lodge a complaint 
and obtain a Subject Access Request (SAR), however, the call handler rejected this and 
terminated the call.
Miss S says that later that evening her card was blocked by Barclaycard. She says that she 
rang Barclaycard multiple times to get this resolved, but she was unable to, therefore, she 
was unable to attend work that evening which cost her £120. Miss S says while she was 
trying to get the block removed from the card, she was told to visit a branch of Barclays to do 
so, but when she visited the branch, the staff were unable to reach the fraud team, so they 
asked her to return the following day. Miss S made a complaint to Barclaycard.
Miss S says that she received a letter from Barclaycard informing her that they had closed 
her account. The reason given was that after they reviewed her spending and payment 
history they decided to close her account. Miss S disputed the reasoning as she did not have 
a spending and payment history with Barclaycard, as she said the account was less than 30 
days old when it was closed, and she had already made repayments to the credit card.
Barclaycard did not uphold Miss Ss complaint. They said that during Miss Ss calls to them, 
they had expressed concerns that they werent speaking with Miss S. They said upon 
listening to the multiple calls they received, they were correct in their assumption. 
Barclaycard said that they required no outside assistance when asking Miss S to answer the 
security questions. But during the call it was identified that Miss Ss partner was assisting her 
answer these. Due to this, Barclaycard were unable to continue the call.
Barclaycard said that as they were unable to assist Miss S here, her partner requested they 
raise a complaint for her and raise a SAR request. But as she did not pass security, they 
were unable to action either of these requests, but they gave her a website address where 
she could complete a SAR. 
Miss S says that based on the contents of Barclaycards response letter, she rang 
Barclaycard, but she says she was told there was a note on the account not to discuss the 
reason for the account closure and not to reopen the complaint. Miss S says that she passed 
the phone to her partner who tried to speak to Barclaycard, but they disconnected the line.
Miss S says she visited a Barclays branch with the letters she received and the staff 
contacted Barclaycard, who initially informed her that the account was closed due to fraud, 
so they spoke to the fraud team who confirmed the account closure was nothing to do with 
fraud and it was due to lending criteria instead. Miss S brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said Barclaycard identified Miss Ss 
partner helping Miss S answer some security questions and that Barclaycard believed Miss 
Ss partner rang them back claiming to be Miss S. She said if Barclaycard had any concerns 
about not speaking to the right person they were right to terminate the call. She said that as 
Miss S didnt pass the security procedures, then Barclaycard were unable to raise a SAR. 
Our investigator said that a temporary block was applied to Miss Ss account as Barclaycard
had security concerns about the account and the block was removed the following day. She 
said that with regard to Barclaycard closing Miss Ss account, they had important
legal and regulatory obligations they must meet which are ongoing and dont only relate to 
when an account is opened. Our investigator said Barclaycard made the decision to close 
Miss Ss account in line with their terms and conditions and they didnt have to give a 
specific reason for the closure.
Miss S asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said Barclaycard closed the account in retaliation for her making a complaint. 
She said there was no reason to doubt the account security when she had visited a branch 
in person with identification and explained the situation. Miss S questioned if Barclaycard 
were concerned about security, then why did they not explain that to her on the phone when 
she called them multiple times and she had to go to the bank twice. She said she shouldnt 
have to pay interest on the account when it was closed as Barclaycard had reneged on the 
agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Miss S that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and 
as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how Barclaycard have investigated her 
complaint, such as not reopening a closed complaint dont come under my powers to 
consider.
Id also like to explain to Miss S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how 
to run their security procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclaycard to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraud. Sometimes they block/restrict accounts due to security concerns. 
This can be inconvenient for customers  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted 
incorrectly. 
Miss Ss account was blocked due to security concerns. Shes said that she had to visit the 
branch twice for the block to be lifted. So I can understand why she would be frustrated by 
this. But Barclaycard have a duty of care to protect a customers account if they believe there are security concerns. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. Section 
13 of the terms and conditions show the following:
We may prevent or limit the use of your account, stop service providers from making 
payments on your behalf, or end your ability to borrow more under this agreement, if we 
reasonably consider this is necessary for any of the following reasons: 
To protect the security of your account
Ive listened to the call where Miss S has attempted to change her address. Her partner calls 
Barclaycard and explains the address needs to be changed. Miss S then comes on the line 
to complete security. The call handler clearly explains to Miss S that theres only yourself 
who can answer, even though your partner is probably trying to help you, you need to 
answer them, to which Miss S agrees. 
The call handler asks what the last three digits of Miss Ss phone number are. Miss Ss 
partners voice is clear in the background telling her this information. The call handler 
explains that as someone else has answered the question, she cant go through security and 
says that she did tell Miss S that she would need to answer the questions herself. The call 
handler says that she will need to ring back. 
Miss Ss partner tells the call handler the account is set up by me, okay, its always my 
email address and my phone. He explains because of Miss Ss work patterns that he has to 
speak to people on her behalf and he says the reason why Miss S doesnt know the answer 
because (thats) why Ive had to tell her. The call handler asks if Miss S is able to visit the 
branch. Miss Ss partner says Im logged into the account, pretty much verifying that it is us, 
okay?. The call handler says she is unable to continue with the call and Miss Ss partner 
asks to raise a complaint. He then says I could ring up and say that Im (Miss S) and that 
would be nothing, you couldnt question it, you wouldnt question it, and you never have 
before, so I dont get now why, then the call handler asks if hes done that before. Her 
partner says yeah, yeah, I have, but not with Barclays, but Ive rung other companies.   
The call handler explains she will need to speak to Miss S to register the complaint. Miss Ss 
partner asks Miss S if she gives her permission to log the complaint and she says yeah, 
yeah, yeah. When the call handler explains she cant speak to Miss Ss partner as security 
hasnt been passed, Miss Ss partner tells the call handler I will put a GDPR request in for 
this call and he tells the call handler the call is recorded from his end and he asks to speak 
to a manager. He then asks her for a copy of the call and that he wants to raise a GDPR 
request. As the call handlers manager rings her she puts Miss S on hold. The call is later 
disconnected.
Ive considered whether Barclaycard were reasonable not to action the GDPR request here 
and Im satisfied that they were. I say this for a couple of reasons. Miss S does not agree to 
a GDPR request when her partner requests this and he doesnt ask her to confirm this. And, 
in any event, Miss S (who is Barclaycards customer) had not passed their security process. 
So Im satisfied that they were reasonable in not raising this here. Barclaycard have no 
record of branch staff being asked to raise a GDPR request, but I have seen from the 
system notes that Barclaycard received a request on 23 October 2021. And it appears to 
have been actioned within the relevant timeframe for GDPR requests.
It is also clear the communication on this call had broken down, and as Miss Ss partner had 
sworn twice during the call and he was talking over the call handler frequently to where the 
call handler asked if she could speak as she had allowed him to speak. But Miss Ss partner 
did not allow her to talk and the call handler had indicated she would disconnect the call. As 
Miss S had not passed security, Im satisfied that continuing the call would not have resulted in the address being changed and she had told Miss S she needed to ring back. It would, 
perhaps, have been helpful for the call handler or her manager to explain they were going to 
terminate the call instead of just terminating the call without any warning. But equally, based 
on the prior conversation, its likely the same pattern would have continued and the call 
would have been disconnected as the call handler had previously indicated it would be.
So as Barclaycard had concerns about the security of the account they blocked it in line with 
the terms and conditions. When Miss S visited a Barclays branch and their staff were able to 
speak to Barclaycard and verify Miss S, the restrictions were removed from the account. 
Miss S wasnt able to do this the previous day due to circumstances out of her control, such 
as the staff being unable to speak to the fraud team and the branch may have been closing 
early. But she didnt have to go back to the branch the following day. I say this as Ive also 
listened to a call where Barclaycard explained that either Miss S could go back to the branch 
with two forms of identification or she could wait for a call to complete the security within 24 
hours. Im satisfied that when the branch did manage to speak to the fraud team the 
restriction was removed in a timely manner.
Ive considered what Miss S has said about if Barclaycard were concerned about security, 
why did they not explain that to her on the phone when she called them multiple times and 
had to go to the bank twice. But Barclaycard arent required to explain their security 
procedures. And as they had concerns they werent speaking to Miss S herself, then I cant 
say theyve done anything wrong here.
Ive considered what Miss S has said about Barclaycard closing the account in retaliation for 
complaining to them and that they have lied about the reasons for closing her account. In the 
closure letter, Barclaycard said that they had closed the account because of her spending 
and payment history. 
I can understand why Miss S thinks that this isnt the case because her account hadnt been 
open for long when it was closed. And she had made repayments to her account during this 
time. She had also been told that the closure was related to fraud, but when the branch staff 
spoke to the fraud department, they denied this and said it was due to lending criteria. So 
Ive looked at Barclaycards terms and conditions to see what it says about them closing an 
account. Section 19 of the terms and conditions set out that they can close an account 
without notice for a number of different reasons. Barclaycard have told us why they did what 
they did here and Im satisfied this is in line with the terms and conditions  even if 
Barclaycard have asked us not to share this information  which theyre entitled to.
Ive also looked at what the terms and conditions say about interest on a closed account. 
Section 19 of the terms and conditions show if Miss Ss account closes, shell need to make 
all payments that are due on your account. Well fix the interest rates so they dont change 
as a result of the Base Rate changes. Later in this section, it states this agreement will 
continue until youve paid everything you owe, including amounts added to your account. So 
Im satisfied that interest would still be charged even though the account is closed, although 
Barclaycard would fix the interest rates, so they didnt change as a result of a Base Rate 
change. So Im satisfied Barclaycard are entitled to charge interest here, even though they 
closed the account.
Ive considered what Miss S has said about there being no reason to doubt the account 
security when she had visited a branch in person with identification and explained the 
situation. But Im not persuaded by this. I say this as even though Miss S had visited the 
branch with identification, this doesnt mean her account security could not be compromised 
in the future by a fraudster or an unauthorised person. So I would expect Barclaycard to 
have controls in place to ensure they were genuinely speaking to Miss S on each occasion they interacted with her. They treated her the same as they would any other customer in this 
situation. So it follows I dont require Barclaycard to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman