DRN-3084257
The complaint
Miss S complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) when she returned her hire vehicle. 
In this complaint, Miss S is represented by her mother, but for clarity Ill refer to Miss S 
throughout. 
What happened
Miss S entered into a hire agreement for a vehicle with MBFS in July 2016. The vehicle was 
returned at the end of the agreement. 
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for MBFS in August 2020. The report from 
this inspection notes a number of areas of damage that they considered were outside of the 
vehicle return standards, and other charges they said Miss S would have to pay as follows: 
Left hand front wheel  refurb polished alloy - £85
Left hand rear wheel  refurb polished alloy - £85
Right hand rear wheel - refurb polished alloy - £85
Right hand front wheel - refurb polished alloy - £85
Key not working  £360 
Missing literature pack - £115
MBFS also charged Miss S £177.81 for extra days of hire, as the vehicle was returned after 
the agreement had ended. 
Miss S complained to MBFS about these charges. She said the inspection didnt take place 
when the car was collected, so she wasnt aware of any charges then, and theres no proof it 
was damaged whilst in her possession. Miss S said the literature pack and a working second 
key were handed to the collection agent, and disputed the charges for extra days hire, as 
MBFS had delayed in collecting the vehicle. 
MBFS responded to Miss Ss complaint in September 2020. They removed the charge for 
the spare key, as there wasnt any evidence that it wasnt working when Miss S provided it to 
the collection agent. They said the literature pack wasnt present when the vehicle was 
collected, and the damage was evident, so the charge for these items remains payable. 
MBFS later removed the charge for extra days hire, as Miss S wasnt contacted to arrange 
collection of the vehicle until after the agreement had already ended. 
Unhappy with this, Miss S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Miss S. He didnt think that MBFS had acted unfairly in inspecting the car after 
collection, and that the damage was evident in the photos, so had been fairly charged for. 
He also thought that, on the balance of probabilities, the literature pack wasnt returned with 
the car, and so this charge had also been fairly applied. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said the literature pack was handed over at inspection, and the 
damage should have been noted whilst she was present. 
As an agreement cant be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S signed a hire agreement in July 2016. The terms of the agreement set out that the 
vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return 
standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and goes 
on to set out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the 
costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Miss S was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Ive considered whether the charges applied by MBFS were fair and reasonable.  
MBFS removed the charges for the spare key and the extra days of hire, so I havent 
considered these in my decision. 
Miss S says that the inspection should have been completed when the car was collected, 
and not the next day. Ive seen evidence that the car was collected at 11:30pm. Ive also 
seen evidence that the inspection was completed the following day, in daylight. The 
inspection video shows that the car was dirty at the time of the inspection. 
In the circumstances, I dont think MBFS acted unfairly in completing the inspection the day 
following collection. I think there was a possibility of any damage being missed under the 
collection circumstances. 
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
Wheels
In respect of alloy wheels, the hire agreement says that any scuff chip or scratch under 
25mm is acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm 
on the total circumference of the alloy wheel is acceptable.
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the damage to the wheels, and Im satisfied 
that they clearly show scuffs to all four alloys over 50mm. So, Im satisfied that the decision 
to charge for these is fair and reasonable under the terms of the hire agreement.  
Miss S says the damage could have happened after the car was collected. Having reviewed 
the photos of the damage to the wheels, Im satisfied that this is quite severe, and there is 
evidence of dirt in the scuffs to the wheels. So, Im persuaded that this is more likely to have 
occurred in the four years of Miss Ss ownership, than in the time between when the vehicle 
was collected, and when the inspection photos were taken. Literature pack
In respect of the literature pack, the vehicle return standards list the items to be returned with 
the vehicle, one of which is the literature pack / handbook (e.g. user manual etc.) The 
BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that all vehicle documentation must be intact and 
available including the operation manual and any other documents relating to the vehicle 
and its equipment. 
Miss S has told this service that she handed the literature pack to the collection agent. Ive 
reviewed the photographs and videos supplied with the collection report. Ive seen evidence 
that the collection agent took photos of all other items that Miss S handed back with the 
vehicle, there is also a full video of the car with these items inside it. On balance, I think if the 
literature pack had been with the vehicle, it would be included in these photos or the video. 
Im persuaded by the evidence that it wasnt, and that this charge for this is fair and 
reasonable under the terms of the hire agreement.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman