DRN-2246485
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wrongly applied charges 
to his account and this caused him financial and personal difficulties.
What happened
Mr K had two accounts with Halifax: a basic current account and an ultima reward current 
account.
In 2013, Halifax closed his basic current account and transferred it to its recoveries 
department.  It was overdrawn by £617.72. It registered a default on his credit file. 
His reward account was overdrawn by £300 but this fell within the limit for an arranged 
overdraft. However, he was also paying monthly fees on this account, which Halifax debited 
from the account. This pushed him into an unarranged overdraft and further into debt.
Eventually, in 2015, Halifax sold the reward account to a debt collection agency and 
registered a second default on his credit file.
Subsequently, Halifax carried out an internal review of some accounts which it had passed 
to collections. Mr Ks reward account was one of them. Following the review, it decided that 
it should have spoken to Mr K about his financial difficulties in 2015 and closed the account, 
instead of passing it to a debt collection agency.
Halifax decided to put things right by:
paying a refund of £370, which it used to clear the outstanding balance on the 
account 
refunding all arranged overdraft fees from 29 October 2012 until 8 February 2013, 
totalling £140.00 plus £59.68 for 8% simple interest.
Halifax also paid Mr K £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Mr K wasnt happy with this outcome and raised a complaint with Halifax. 
He said Halifaxs actions caused him financial hardship and pushed him further into debt. As 
a result, he lost his job, his marriage broke down and he couldnt pay child support. Also, he 
couldnt afford to pay his late mothers funeral costs and couldnt get credit, or a mortgage or 
open any other bank accounts because of the defaults on his credit file. He said these 
problems have affected his health and caused him to drop out of a study course, but he still 
must pay the course fees.
He asked Halifax for compensation of £50,000.
Halifax refused to increase the compensation it had paid him. It didnt agree it was 
responsible for what had happened in his personal life. 
As Mr K didnt agree with Halifaxs decision, he asked this service to investigate his 
complaint.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said she couldnt 
reasonably conclude that Halifaxs actions had led to his personal problems or his inability to 
get credit or other bank accounts.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to say I dont have good news for Mr K. Having reviewed the evidence, Ive 
reached the same overall conclusions as those reached by the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
Halifax has conceded that it should have done more to assist Mr K in 2015. It acknowledges 
now that he was clearly in financial difficulties and this was apparent from the basic current 
account, which it had closed.  
It has taken steps to resolve this oversight by clearing the outstanding balance on the reward 
account and refunding all charges. It has also removed the default from his credit file and 
paid him £150 for his distress and inconvenience.
The dispute, which is before me now, is about whether it should have paid him more 
compensation.
My task, therefore, is to consider what is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. To 
help me reach my decision, I will look at the impact of Halifaxs actions on Mr K, whether 
there is a link between what it did and Mr Ks personal problems. And I will look for evidence 
to support any claims for financial or other loss.
I dont doubt that Mr K was in financial difficulties. And I can see from his correspondence 
that the past years have been sad and challenging ones for him. I am so sorry that hes had 
to deal with problems and personal grief on many fronts.
I do understand that, if his financial difficulties coincided with his marriage breakdown, then it 
might seem it was the cause of the breakdown. And it might have been a factor. Financial 
difficulties can put a relationship under enormous stress. But that doesnt mean Halifax is 
responsible or to blame. Halifax doesnt owe him a duty of care in relation to his marriage. 
And besides, there are always many other reasons for a marriage breakdown. 
In relation to his job, we have no evidence of why he was let go or when. 
Similarly, although I have seen letters about the child support payments, I dont know why he 
couldnt pay it. But I think its more likely it was because he was unemployed.
Mr K also said he found it difficult to get credit or a mortgage or open another bank account 
because of the defaults which were registered on his account. He has provided a letter from 
another bank asking him for basic information, but he hasnt provided any evidence that hed 
been turned down for any financial services or products because of the defaults. Also, he didnt provide us with a copy of his credit file when we requested it. So, I dont know 
what he has applied for, whether he had other debts or other defaults or adverse information 
on his file which would have affected his credit score. And if he had other debts, I dont know 
what steps he was taking to manage his financial situation.
In summary, the problems which Mr K faced could have been attributed to a range of other 
factors. In all likelihood, it was a combination of debt, unemployment and marriage 
breakdown which affected him. Im afraid I cant isolate Halifaxs actions as the single cause. 
In the circumstances, I consider that Halifaxs compensation of £150 for trouble and upset is 
a fair and reasonable one. I wont be asking it to pay more.
I sympathise with Mr Ks situation and Im sorry this will be disappointing news for him, but I 
hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman