DRN-3031484
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes                 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought NBSs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs H paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding             
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided NBS should have disclosed the 
commission it received  but that NBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr and Mrs H say the PPI was included as part of the mortgage package, but I think 
NBS made it clear to Mr and Mrs H that they didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. 
I say this because NBS has been able to give us a copy of the PPI application form  the 
mortgagecare insurance application form  which is a separate document from the 
mortgage application itself. This has been completed by hand and signed and dated by 
Mr and Mrs H. Although the application copy is a little blurred, I see that the section to 
take the PPI has been ticked and the benefit calculations completed. And as Ive said,          
Mr and Mrs H went on to sign the form. So, I think it was clear to Mr and Mrs H they had 
a choice about taking the PPI and decided to take it upon application of their mortgage 
otherwise I wouldnt have expected to have signed their agreement to take it. 
NBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H  so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs H enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs H. 
Although Mr and Mrs H say they had medical conditions sometime before the policy was 
taken out, I dont think better information about the existing medical exclusion wouldve 
caused them to change their minds about taking out the policy. I say this because two of 
Mr Hs conditions were from his childhood and he didnt tell us of any ongoing problems. 
And the third illness was diagnosed ten years before the policy was taken and was 
controlled with medication. And for Mrs H, she has told us she received treatment for a 
condition over 20 years before the policy was taken which was a one off. We did try to 
find out more about both of Mr and Mrs Hs conditions but didnt hear anything back. So, 
I dont have anything to make me think that any of the conditions were ongoing or for 
which Mr and Mrs H would have thought they needed to claim on the policy because of 
them.  It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have 
declined the cover had NBS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions and 
exclusions on claims relating to mental health conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So, I think they would have still 
thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting, and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means NBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
NBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
NBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
NBS and Mr and Mrs H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because NBS didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case.
I dont think NBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs H because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs H should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: NBS failed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be considered at 
step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for     
Mr and Mrs H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by NBS not disclosing the high level 
of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for NBSs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for NBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs H paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves            
Mr and Mrs H with the policy which Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if NBS had done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share 
levels.
So, I consider that NBSs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As NBS has already paid Mr and Mrs H compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs H an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation 
on this basis, I do not consider that Nationwide Building Society should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman