DRN-1209719
The complaint
Mr G complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS), allowed his insurer to take a 
payment from his account despite them only having the details of his expired debit card.
What happened
Mr G had a continuous payment authority set up with his insurer. And in June 2019, his 
insurer debited a payment from his account. Mr G was unhappy this had happened because 
since setting up the continuous payment authority, his debit card had expired. When Mr G 
noticed this payment, he complained to BoS. Mr G told BoS he wanted the payment 
refunded, and compensation for the worry he'd experienced.
BoS explained to Mr G that the payment had gone through because he'd set up a 
continuous payment authority with his insurer. BoS said they were satisfied Mr G had an 
existing contract with his insurer. So they didn't think they'd done anything wrong by 
authorising the payment. BoS added, that if Mr G didn't want to continue making these 
payments, he'd need to speak with his insurer directly. While BoS didn't agree to refund the 
payment, they did offer Mr G £10 to resolve his complaint. Mr G remained unhappy, so he 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't think Mr G's complaint should be upheld. She explained the 
continuous payment authority meant Mr G's insurer could take payments from Mr G's 
account - not his debit card. She also said Mr G's insurer was able to get his updated 
payment details through the Visa card scheme. So, she didn't think BoS had done anything 
wrong.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr G's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasons below.
It's not in dispute that Mr G set up a continuous payment authority with his insurer. But what 
Mr G is unhappy with, is the fact his insurer was able to take a payment despite them having 
the details of his now expired debit card.
When a continuous payment authority is set up, it allows the merchant, in this case, Mr G's 
insurer, to take payments from their customer's account directly. It doesn't mean the 
payment is processed through card. That's why a card expiring wouldn't automatically cause 
a continuous payment authority to come to an end.
Mr G's payment information was held by BoS, his insurer and the card scheme, Visa. Visa 
have a system in place called "Visa Account Updater". This allows merchants, like Mr G's 
insurer, to obtain up to date payment information. BoS has told us that once the insurer had Mr G's updated information, they took steps to take the payment. And BoS allowed this 
payment to go through, because the insurer was able to evidence they had a contract with 
Mr G.
As Mr G's insurer obtained the updated information from Visa, I don't consider BoS acted 
unfairly in that part of Mr G's complaint. So I've next had to consider if BoS should have 
known Mr G didn't want to make a payment to his insurer.
I've not seen any evidence to suggest Mr G contacted BoS or his insurer, to tell them he 
wanted to cancel the continuous payment authority. So, in the absence of that, I'm not 
persuaded BoS did anything wrong by allowing the payment to go through. Mr G has also 
confirmed his policy is still in place. And in light of that, I don't think it would be fair to ask 
BoS to refund the payment.
BoS has already offered Mr G £10 for what happened. As I don't consider BoS acted 
unfairly, I won't be asking them to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr G's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman