DRN-3095046
The complaint
F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc terminated its business accounts and 
rescinded the loans which were granted under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
Mr M, Fs director, brings the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
In May 2020, F applied for two £50,000 loans with Nat West under the Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) Scheme. Nat West approved both the loans and the money was transferred to Fs 
accounts.
In November 2020, after reviewing the accounts, Nat West decided to end their banking 
relationship with F and closed its accounts. In addition to closing Fs accounts, Nat West 
also withdrew the BBL facilities. Nat West used the money in Fs accounts to offset it against 
the amount owing for the BBLs.
Mr M says this meant he didnt have access to any money which caused financial difficulty. 
Our investigator who looked at things didnt think Nat West had done anything wrong. She 
said Nat West were entitled to carry out checks on the BBL applications and under the BBL 
Scheme rules, F would have only been eligible for one loan. Our investigator also explained 
that to be eligible for a £50,000 loan, F would have had to have had an annual turnover of 
£300,000 and that hadnt been evidenced. She referred Mr M to the terms and conditions 
which allowed Nat West to offset any outstanding balance from the loans  so overall, didnt 
ask them to do anything differently. 
Mr M responded to our investigators view and didnt agree with it. He said he should be able 
to feed his family and pay bills so thinks this should be considered. Mr M also said he hadnt 
signed anything which allowed Nat West to take every penny. Our investigator sent Mr M, 
on behalf of F, a copy of the agreement which he signed, and therefore agreed to, in May 
2020.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
great disappointment to F, and Mr M, on its behalf. Im sorry for the position F finds itself in. 
Ive explained my reasons for my decision below.
Account block and closure
Nat West are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, like our investigator, Im satisfied Nat West 
were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing and subsequently closing Fs 
accounts.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr M, on behalf of F, decided to end the agreement with Nat West and use another 
bank  he wouldnt have to explain why. In his submissions to our service, Mr M stated he 
thinks Nat West has closed his accounts due to suspicions of him committing fraud by 
asking for money he lost to a scam back. I havent reviewed the circumstances of the scam 
complaints  and therefore I cant comment on it as part of this decision. However, while I 
cant share the details of Nat Wests decision with F, Ive reviewed their actions and Id like 
to reassure Mr M that Ive seen nothing to suggest Nat West have acted unreasonably.
Withdrawal of the BBLs and offsetting the debt 
Under the BBL agreement, Nat West have the right to default the loan in a few specific 
circumstances. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont consider F was entitled to two 
£50,000 BBLs. Nat West carried out the appropriate checks as theyre entitled and expected 
to do, and then decided to withdraw the facilities based on the findings of their review. 
Having considered the full circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Nat West were 
entitled to take the actions they did. 
I appreciate Nat West used money from Fs accounts to repay some of the loan. Mr M feels 
strongly about this as he says Nat West has left him with no money to continue running his 
business or feed his family. I can only comment on the impact this situation has had on F  
not Mr M as an individual, because hes not Nat Wests customer in the circumstances of 
this complaint  F is. But I cant fairly uphold Fs complaint on this point and thats because 
Im satisfied F wasnt entitled to the money from the BBL, so I cant reasonably say F should 
be able to keep any money when there is a debt outstanding.
Our investigator has helpfully shared the relevant terms which allow Nat West to use the 
money F holds with them to offset against the loan. Im aware Mr M doesnt agree he signed 
these terms to allow Nat West to do this  but our investigator has shared a copy of those 
terms with Mr M  and its these he accepted on behalf of F. Having reviewed these terms, 
Im satisfied, Nat West didnt do anything wrong in using the money F held in its accounts to 
settle some of the debt owed on its BBL accounts. Because of that, I cant reasonably ask 
them to do anything differently. 
Overall
Overall, Im satisfied Nat West were acting in line and complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when reviewing and subsequently closing Fs accounts. They were 
also acting within their rights, under the loan terms, to terminate the loan facility and recall 
the funds, and to offset the balance using the money held in Fs accounts. So, I wont be 
asking Nat West to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman