DRN-4311197
The complaint
Mr G complains about Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance (Co-Op) and 
the service he received after he was involved in a road traffic accident. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident. He was stationary at a roundabout 
and another car crashed into him. Mr G says he was mildly injured but drove away from the 
crash. The car was drivable and worked fine. 
Mr G says the car was taken in for repairs and paint to the back bumper. When the car was 
returned it wasnt turning on. He says he then went through years of extensive research and 
investigation with an independent garage to find out why the car wouldnt start. 
Mr G says the damage wasnt related to the crash so it must have occurred whilst the car 
was with the garage for repairs. An independent garage says the repairer fried the electric 
battery while the car was in the spraying booth. Mr G says his cars information pack clearly 
states it should be put inside these ovens, and he has proof it was put in such drying 
equipment. 
Mr G had his car inspected by a different garage who said all high voltage batteries should 
be removed from the electric vehicle before being placed in a spraying booth for body 
repairs. And this was the cause of the car not starting. 
Mr G says hes had to pay over 20 months of finance on the car, as well as the cost and 
repair of items that he didnt need to, had the repairer taken responsibility for the additional 
damage to his car. So Mr G complained to Co-Op.
In resolution of his complaint Mr G wants compensation for 20 months finance payments, as 
well as to be reimbursed for the cost of the repairs to his vehicle. Mr G says he wants 
compensation for being without his car while trying to support his young family. He says the 
matter has caused him significant stress and impacted his mental health, financial stability, 
and relationships. 
Co-Op didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said it had referred the Mr Gs report to its senior 
engineer who said theyd never had an issue with the spray booth or that its caused issues 
to batteries, electric or hybrid. Co-Op confirmed the spraying booth isnt like a conventional 
oven, as it doesnt bake the entire vehicle. It only subjects the outer panels that have been 
repaired to cure the paintwork. Co-Op says the spraying booth doesnt generate enough 
heat to affect the electrical or battery systems. Co-Op also say the garage Mr G used for the 
report wasnt an approved main dealer and it would only accept a report from an approved 
dealership. Co-Op also said any electrical or mechanical failure or wear and tear issues are 
excluded from the policy. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the response he received from Co-Op so he referred his complaint 
to this service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. He said the evidence 
showed the car wasnt baked like a conventional system might do, and it doesnt concentrate 
any excess hear on a vehicles battery. So he said he wasnt upholding the complaint. The 
investigator also said since Mr Gs car wasnt being repaired by an approved repairer, under 
the terms of the policy he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment this will cause Mr G, Im not upholding 
the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
First I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I recognise Mr G feels 
strongly about the complaint, and the way it has been handled. And Ive carefully considered 
this alongside his testimony explaining why he believes the repairing garage damaged his 
vehicle battery. 
I dont doubt Mr Gs report that the car didnt start for the first time immediately after it was 
returned to him. Indeed his testimony is that there were no warning lights on when the car 
was collected. But the car manufacturer and Mr Gs own garage wasnt able to diagnose the 
cause. And coincidental damage does sometimes occur. So what is really important for me 
in considering this complaint is the available expert evidence. Considering expert detail like 
that will help me determine if its fair and reasonable for Co-Op to decline to undertake the 
repairs to Mr Gs car. 
From the information Ive seen, initially there were a number of possible causes for the car 
not to start, such as an error code of an air-con compressor, or a potential recall. Mr G took 
the car to the vehicle manufacturer but, through a process of elimination, he ruled them out 
as being the cause.  
Mr G has comments from an independent garage that says, the nature of the fault and the 
type of vehicle/engine you have it requires specialist electrical vehicle trained technicians to 
carry out the diagnosis safelyall high voltage training manuals stipulate that the batteries 
should be removed first from any electric vehicles before being placed in an oven for body 
repairs. So this report appears to conclude in favour of Mr Gs position. Seemingly though, 
Co-Op wasnt satisfied with the report and referred it to its senior engineer. 
I can understand why Co-Op didnt find the information from the independent garage 
compelling. The comments from the independent garage are likely based on information 
provided to it by Mr G, the garage didnt have access to the spraying booth used by the 
repairer so arent likely to be aware of the nature of it. The report is also dated December 
2022; over 12 months after the incident. The independent garage also doesnt specifically 
say the damage to the battery is directly caused by the spraying booth while the car was 
being repaired. So the report is seemingly incomplete. I note Co-Op has said if Mr G obtains 
a report from the cars manufacturer approved dealership it would consider it. 
Ive considered Co-Ops comments and the information its provided regarding the spraying 
booth. The information is much clearer. The image shows Mr Gs car in the spraying booth 
which shows the parts of the vehicle that didnt need repairing were covered. And I think this 
shows the entire vehicle wasnt subject to the same temperature during the process. Co-Op 
also explained that the system continually moves across the body panel surface during the 
drying process so not to cause overheat hot spots and there are fail safes in place that will turn the unit off completely. Co-Op also confirmed conventional drying systems require 
batteries to be removed beforehand or for the temperature to be reduced. But thats not 
required with the system used by the repairing garage. 
So, on the balance of probability, the repair process wouldnt have caused the issue as 
described. In this case, I believe the issue is coincidental not circumstance to the repair 
process. 
Co-Op has said it will consider a report from an approved dealership and I think thats fair. 
All of which leads me to conclude Im most persuaded by the evidence provided by Co-Op. 
And so I think it acted reasonably in concluding its repairer didnt cause the damage to Mr 
Gs vehicle. Ultimately the expert evidence in this case suggest that Co-Op has fulfilled its 
liability regarding the accident-related damage to Mr Gs car. Co-op has offered to 
reconsider its position should Mr G provide his own expert report, from an approved 
dealership. I think Co-Ops position here is fair and reasonable. So I wont be making any 
direction against Co-Op as part of this complaint. 
Should Mr G decide to provide his own report, and remain unhappy with Co-Ops position 
following that, he may be able to refer a new complaint to our service  subject to our normal 
rules. 
Replacement vehicle 
I note Mr G is also unhappy hes been left without a vehicle and wanted a replacement while 
his car was being investigated. But the terms of the policy are clear that a courtesy car is 
only provided, for the duration of the repairs. And since Mr Gs car wasnt being repaired by 
Co-Op at the time I cant say Co-Op did anything wrong by not providing him with a 
replacement vehicle.
 
I can see this has been very frustrating for Mr G. I dont doubt that having issues with his car 
following a relatively low impact accident has been difficult. And I know hes had to continue 
paying the instalments on the car while the issues have been ongoing. But since I dont think 
Co-Op are responsible for the damage I cant ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman