DRN-2924873
The complaint
 Miss Ms complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to being given an 
incorrect Early Redemption Charge (ERC) refund figure and also that she was promised a 
return call which was not made.
What happened
 Miss M redeemed her mortgage in November 2020. She wished to port her mortgage over 
to her new property, but because she wasnt ready to complete on her new property at the 
same time she sold her existing property, she had to pay an ERC of £2,384.80 plus £65 
redemption charges, with a view to applying for a refund of those charges within six months. 
Her new mortgage was advanced in March 2021 and she applied for a refund of the ERC. 
When speaking with an NBS mortgage consultant in January 2021, she was told she would 
receive approximately £5,619 by way of refund and said she relied upon that statement in 
then making financial commitments. In fact, when the refund was made, she received the 
lesser sum of £2,384.80, being the amount she had actually paid in ERCs. That led to Miss 
M borrowing money from a friend to cover the shortfall on her financial commitment.
NBS investigated Miss Ms complaint and accepted she had been told that she would 
receive £5,619 by the mortgage consultant. They were unable to clarify where that figure 
had been obtained from but did confirm that it was incorrect. They also confirmed that 
despite being promised a return call it was not in fact made. In recognition, NBS offered Miss 
M £250 in compensation. 
Miss M was unhappy with NBS final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation NBS offered was enough to put things right. 
Miss M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The facts of this complaint are reasonably straight forward. Miss M had an ERC to pay, 
which she did. That was £2,384.80 plus £65 redemption charges. Ultimately that was repaid 
to her in line with the mortgage terms and conditions. However, she was told that she would 
receive £5,619, and NBS accept that was an error on their part. They also accept that a 
promised return call was not made.
NBS have accepted that they didnt get things right and because of that they offered 
compensation to Miss M of £250. As Miss M didnt think that was enough to put matters 
right, Ive given this some further thought to assess whether that offer was fair and 
reasonable. When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might 
be, we consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience 
that may have been caused. We categorise awards and examples of these can be found on 
our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failure.
Applying this to the facts of Miss Ms complaint, contractually Miss M did in fact receive the 
correct refund of ERC. That is not in dispute, and so there is no error there on NBS part. It 
remains that Miss M was never entitled to the £5,619 she was told she would get.
I accept that Miss M relied upon the figure given to her by the mortgage consultant and used 
that figure when budgeting future expenditure for her new home. And because she thought 
she was going to receive a larger sum than she actually did, she committed to expenditure 
on a kitchen of over £5,000 which she says she wouldnt have otherwise done. She of 
course now has her kitchen and naturally enjoys the benefit and value of it. And currently 
she does have a debt to a friend from whom she borrowed the money to cover the shortfall, 
and if she were to repay that friend she would probably need to obtain a loan from 
elsewhere, such as a bank. 
I understand the awkwardness of that for Miss M, but if I were to ask NBS to honour the 
incorrectly quoted refund figure, and pay it to her, that would put Miss M in a better financial 
position than she would otherwise have been. In addition, after finding out that she wasnt 
going to receive the £5,619 refund, Miss M could have cancelled her contract and forfeited 
her deposit. But she decided to proceed in the knowledge that she would need to find 
another way of paying for her kitchen.
What I am faced with is a failure in the service Miss M received. The failure was the 
quotation given as to the size of the refund she was to receive, but I dont think that it 
naturally flows from that failure that NBS could have reasonably foreseen that Miss M would 
rely on that, to the extent of entering into a future binding contract. 
So, Im not satisfied that Miss Ms loss can be calculated by reference to her financial 
commitment to her kitchen. In any event she remains with the benefit and value of it. 
Putting things right
 So, although Miss M will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst NBS have 
indeed made errors, I feel that NBSs offer of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable to 
reflect the impact on Miss M of the service failure.
My final decision
 Nationwide Building Society have already made an offer to pay Miss M £250 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that they should 
pay Miss M £250.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman