DRN-3113779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F trading as C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly failed to refund two 
payments thatd been made from their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a business current account with Lloyds. Mrs F authorised two payments 
from the account using her debit card. The payments were made to a finance company (M) 
and related to certain fees it charged in respect of a loan application. The loan application 
was made in the name of a limited company, of which Mr and Mrs F were Directors.
Mrs F says that M declined the loan application. She says the charges shouldve been 
refunded in these circumstances since the charges related to costs which had not actually 
been incurred. M refused to refund the charges. So, Mrs F raised a dispute with Lloyds.
Lloyds agreed to raise a chargeback in respect of the two payments. Chargeback is a 
process by which settlement disputes are resolved between the card issuer (in this case 
Lloyds) and the relevant card scheme (in this case Visa). 
Lloyds raised various queries about the dispute with Mrs F. These queries included requests 
for information about Mr and Mrs Fs investment account with M.
Mr and Mrs F did not have an investment account with M. They complained to Lloyds. Lloyds 
investigated their complaint. It acknowledged that it hadnt properly actioned their dispute 
when it was raised. It said it had asked for information which wasnt appropriate to the type 
of transaction thatd taken place. It said it would pay £100 into their account by way of 
compensation for this. Lloyds also said it would now contact Ms bank in the appropriate 
way.
Lloyds progressed the chargeback request with Ms bank. But the chargeback was disputed 
by M. Lloyds wrote to a Mr C  albeit at the address it held for Mr and Mrs F  to inform them 
that the payments would not be refunded to the account. It enclosed documentation which it 
said showed that the services had been provided, as described. M had provided 
documentation which showed that the fees were correctly charged. So, Lloyds didnt refund 
the payments.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. They  referred their complaint to our service. They said that M 
was using its business model to extract money from unknowing customers and Lloyds was 
helping to facilitate unlawful conduct. They also said that M shouldnt have accepted the loan 
application because it was a regulated mortgage and M was not authorised to accept loan 
applications of that nature.
Our investigator looked into their complaint. She said that Lloyds had dealt with the dispute 
Mr and Mrs F had raised by using the chargeback procedure under the relevant card 
scheme rules. She said M had provided documentation which showed that the offer of loan 
stated the commitment fee was non-refundable. In these circumstances, she thought Lloyds 
had acted fairly when it hadnt refunded the payments to the account.
Because Mr and Mrs F didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that in this decision Im not considering the various complaint 
points Mr and Mrs F have made about the practices of M. That would need to be dealt with 
separately. Im only dealing with the complaint about Lloyds and how it responded to the 
request for a refund of the payments taken from the account. 
Lloyds issued its final response about that complaint on 19 January 2021 and in that letter it 
told Mr and Mrs F they could refer the subject matter of that complaint to our service. It 
subsequently wrote to them again on 2 February 2021 to advise that their request for a 
refund had not been successful. So, its Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about how Lloyds dealt 
with their request for a refund which this decision will deal with.
When a consumer tells his bank that he disputes a payment which has been taken out of the 
account using a debit card wed expect the bank to raise a chargeback request under the 
relevant card scheme rules. Thats what Lloyds did here. So, I think it acted fairly and 
reasonably when it did that.
After Mrs F raised the dispute, it is the case that Lloyds asked her for information that was 
not appropriate to the type of payment shed made. It appears to have treated the matter as 
if it related to an investment  which was incorrect. However, I can see that once Mrs F 
pointed this out to Lloyds, it accepted that it had made an error and proceeded to progress 
the chargeback request appropriately. So, although there was a delay as a result of Lloyds 
actions, Im not persuaded this impacted on the outcome of the chargeback request. Ive 
also noted that Lloyds paid £100 into the account by way of compensation for whatd 
happened. I think that was fair and reasonable.
In its response to the chargeback request, M provided documentation which indicated that 
the payments made from the account related to a loan application made by a company of 
which Mr and Mrs F were directors. The documentation showed that M had made a 
conditional offer of loan under which various fees were required to be paid. The offer of loan 
described these fees as non-refundable commitment fees. M also provided documentation 
to show that it had paid the fees over to third parties for costs incurred in respect of 
progressing the loan. 
Under the chargeback rules there is no guarantee that a payment will be refunded. All 
chargeback requests are decided based on the rules of the card scheme which issued the 
card. They are not decided based on the relative merits of the cardholder or the merchant (M 
in this case) dispute. 
Ive considered the documentation which M provided to Lloyds under the chargeback rules. 
Having done so, Im satisfied, on balance, Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when it 
decided not to refund the payments.
Ive also considered what Mrs F has said about how Lloyds incorrectly addressed a letter to 
tell her about the outcome of the dispute to a Mr C. That letter was sent to the correct 
address. It is the case that this was an error by Lloyds and it was poor service. But, Mrs F 
did receive the letter and she was able to read its contents. So, Im not persuaded that she 
experienced any detriment as a result of what happened.Having thought about everything here, Im persuaded that Lloyds has acted fairly and 
reasonably. I dont require it to do anything more to resolve this dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman