DRN-4145101
The complaint
Miss O complained because London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) debited two 
payments from her account, which she hadnt authorised. She also wants a final statement, 
because access to her online account was blocked when she closed her account.
What happened
On 20 May 2022, Miss O emailed LCCU, saying she wanted to complain about some 
transactions on her account that she was unaware of. Shed noticed that £10 had been 
debited from her account in April 2021, and again in 2022 due to something called a member 
levy. Miss O told LCCU that shed had many texts and emails from LCCU about applying for 
loans, attending AGMs and other news and offers, but she hadnt had anything about this 
levy. Nor had she agreed to funds being taken out of her account every year. Miss O said 
shed gone to a branch to discuss it in person, but had been dissatisfied with the 
explanation, so shed closed her account. She hadnt been given a final statement, and after 
the closure of the account she couldnt access her online account to view it. Miss O said she 
would like a refund of the £20 which had been debited without her authorisation, and also a 
final statement.
LCCU replied on 21 May, saying that Miss Os complaint would be logged, and she would 
receive a complaint response in line with LCCUs complaints procedure.
Miss O didnt hear anything more from LCCU, so she contacted this service. 
Our investigator asked LCCU about Miss Os complaint, but LCCU didnt reply. So the 
investigator gave her investigation outcome on the information available to her. 
The investigators upheld Miss Os complaint. She said that because Miss O said shed 
never been told about the yearly fee, or received any documentation to tell her it would be 
debited, LCCU should refund Miss O with the £20 it had debited. It should also provide her 
with a closing statement.
LCCU didnt reply, either to our investigator or to Miss O. So the complaint was referred to 
me for an ombudsmans decision. 
After LCCU received the email saying that the complaint had been referred to an 
ombudsman, it replied to this service. It said that all members had been emailed about the 
levy charge via email, and had been invited to its Annual General Meeting, at which there 
had been an opportunity to vote on the charge. LCCU said that the board hadnt taken the 
decision lightly, and many credit unions already charged a joining fee or annual charge.  
LCCU said that the levy was permitted under its  membership terms and conditions, which it 
quoted:
18.1 We may make changes to the services or conditions of this account and we may 
introduce new services or conditions. Changes may be to the services or these conditions 
for the following reasons:
(g) if we reasonably believe the change is necessary in the interests of our business as a 
whole, for example to protect our financial strength.
19.1 In addition to the reasons listed in condition 18.1 we can make any changes to the 
charges applicable to the account or introduce new charges to respond to reasonable cost 
increases or reductions associated with providing the particular services to you
The investigator asked LCCU for evidence of the email address it held for Miss O, and also 
for evidence that LCCU had sent the email to the email it held on file.
LCCU didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the  customer is liable if they 
authorised the payment, but not if they didnt.
Ive considered LCCUs explanation that the annual £10 charge was permitted under the 
terms and conditions of Miss Os account. But Ive looked at the whole terms and conditions 
on LCCUs website, not just the sections quoted by LCCU in its reply to us.  After the 
sections above quoted by LCCU, its terms and conditions go on to say:
19.2 If we make changes to our payment services charges (including any charges detailed 
in conditions 3 to 7 and 8 to 12) for the reasons listed in condition 18.1 we will tell you 
about it by personal notice at least two months before we make the change. The change 
will apply to your account automatically. However, if you do not agree to such a change 
you can, at any time up to two months from the date we tell you of the change, switch your 
account or close it immediately without paying any extra charges or interest. If you do not 
switch or close your account you will be deemed to have accepted the change. 
Remember you can close your account at any time if you want (see condition 14). 
19.3 For all other changes to charges (e.g. overdraft charges or account subscription fees) 
for the reasons listed in condition 18.1: 
(a)where the change is more favourable to you we will tell you about the change on our 
website, by branch notice, statement message or statement insert 
(b)where the change we make is not favourable to you we will tell you about the change 
by personal notice at least 30 days before we make the change. The change will 
apply to your account automatically. However, if you do not agree to such a change 
you can, at any time up to 30 days from the date we tell you of the change, switch or 
close your account without paying any extra charges or interest. If you do not switch 
or close your account you will be deemed to have accepted the change. Remember 
you can close your account at any time if you want (see condition 14). 
So LCCUs terms and conditions set out that it had to give Miss O personal notice of the 
introduction of annual charges. Miss O says she didnt receive any information about such 
a charge. As LCCU didnt respond to our request for evidence to demonstrate that it had 
emailed Miss O about the charges, Ive concluded that its more likely than not that LCCU 
failed to notify Miss O. This means that the charges were unauthorised, and LCCU must refund Miss O with the 
total of £20 it debited in 2021 and 2022, in line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. I also consider that its fair and reasonable for LCCU to provide Miss O with a 
closing statement for her account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Os complaint. I order London Community Credit 
Union Limited to:
- pay Miss O £20 to refund her for the two £10 debits it made to her account in 2021 
and 2022; and
- provide Miss O with a closing statement for her account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman