DRN-3103095
The complaint
Mr W has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has failed to consider a claim for theft 
under is motor insurance policy held with it.
What happened
Mr W attempted to make a claim under his motor insurance policy held with UKI. Before he 
attempted this claim Mr W also attempted to claim through his legal expenses cover which 
was unsuccessful.
Mr W has made complaints about the legal expenses cover and about personal injury that 
are being considered separately so I wont be addressing those issues in this decision.
Mr Ws car was impounded by a private company after the company was instructed to take 
this action by a local council. Mr W says his car was stolen and that UKI should investigate 
his claim.
UKI has explained that the circumstances Mr W has explained are not covered under the 
policy he has with it. The car wasnt stolen and therefore Mr W is unable to make a claim 
under this section of his motor insurance.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
UKI had acted fairly in not considering Mr Ws claim for theft. Mr W disagreed, he said it was 
not for our service to decide whether the circumstances constituted a theft. 
As Mr W didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Mr W has said, that this service shouldnt be deciding whether Mr Ws car 
was stolen or not, and I agree this is not the role of our service. It is my job to look at 
whether UKI has acted fairly, and importantly inline with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws 
policy when deciding not to progress the claim.
I have looked at Mr Ws policy and specifically the part of the policy that covers theft. Mr Ws 
motor insurance policy under the fire and theft section states:
What is covered If your car is lost or damaged as a result of theft, attempted theft, fire, 
lightning or explosion
This section of Mr Ws policy is similar to that Ive seen from other motor insurance providers 
and is common in the motor insurance industry.
Mr W has told us that a local council arranged to have his car impounded. Following failed 
notice and negotiation Mr W feels this should now be considered as a theft under his policy. 
But having considered the terms above, I dont think this situation is covered within the theft 
section, or any other section of Mr Ws policy so, I dont think UKI has acted unreasonably 
not progressing his claim. 
As I am unable to find that the circumstances Mr W has explained are covered under his 
policy, or that UKI have acted unreasonably, I am not asking UKI to take any further action.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman