DRN-2632213
The complaint
Mr W complains that Metro Bank PLC returned a direct debit on his account. Mr W feels that 
there were enough funds in the account so it shouldnt have been returned.
What happened
Mr W held an account with Metro Bank and on 15 September 2020 he had direct debits 
which were due to clear. One of his direct debits didnt clear and was returned, he wasnt 
charged a fee for the returned direct debit. Mr W felt there were enough funds in the account 
so the direct debit shouldnt have been returned. Mr W also paid in £100 into the account on 
15 September 2020. He is particularly unhappy as the direct debit was to a charity and felt it 
should have been honoured.
Metro Bank said there wasnt enough funds in the account to cover the direct debit. They 
said although there had been funds in the account, Mr W had made a number of 
transactions on his debit card which meant that these payments were due to come out of the 
account so these would have been allocated as pending payments resulting in the funds in 
the account being reduced by those amounts. Metro Bank didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt Metro Bank hadnt done anything wrong 
and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr W felt he had sufficient funds in his account. The balance on the day 
seems to be showing as £91.10 on his statement so I can understand why Mr W would think 
he had enough funds. But this balance needs to cover all the payments that Mr W had 
already made and any he wanted to make.
In addition to the returned direct debit of £5, he also had another direct debit of £4 and a 
number of pending transactions which hadnt cleared the account from previous days, it can 
take a few days for these payments to clear the account especially when these payments 
are made by debit card and this also depends on the time the merchant takes rather than 
Metro Bank. These pending transactions meant the account would have gone into arrears if 
both direct debits had been honoured.
Mr W didnt have an overdraft facility on the account so the account would have gone into 
arrears with the payment of the direct debits. Metro Banks terms say they may try and take 
the payment again by 14:00 on the same day to allow for funds to be added. I can see Mr W 
did put further funds of £100 into the account but this wasnt done until 15:59. This missed 
the cut off time set out in the terms and conditions so the payment couldnt be taken, and 
Metro Bank were unable to honour the direct debit. Its Mr Ws responsibility to ensure he 
has enough funds in his account to make the payments he needed to.
While I understand Mr W may feel this wasnt a large amount and the payment was being 
made to a charity so it should have been honoured, I cant say that Metro Bank did anything 
wrong or took any unreasonable action. The account would have gone into arrears and 
Mr W didnt have an agreed overdraft for this type of situation, so I think Metro Bank couldnt 
have known how quickly Mr W would have been able to bring the account back to a positive 
balance at the time the direct debit was returned.
I can see that the terms for this account say that there is no fee charged for refusing a 
payment due to lack of funds and looking at the statements provided its good to see Mr W 
hasnt been charged. As mentioned, Mr W did put additional funds into the account later that 
day so any impact on his payments was limited to this direct debit.
I understand Mr W feels strongly about what happened with the direct debit on his account 
so naturally hell be disappointed with my decision on his case. But ultimately it was his 
responsibility to ensure he had enough funds in his account and I dont think Metro Bank 
acted unreasonably in returning the direct debit, so I dont think Metro bank need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman