DRN-3313619
The complaint
Ms P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) wont compensate 
her for a flight upgrade she purchased using her credit card. Ms P believes details of the 
flight upgrade were misrepresented to her.  
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont go into much detail but 
will summarise the key points leading to Ms Ps complaint. Ms P had flights booked with a 
flight operator and was given the option to upgrade. She used her Amex credit card to pay 
the upgrade fee of £3,193.65  which she believed was for an upgraded class for both legs 
of her journey. Ms P says she then checked in online and noted the upgrade only applied to 
her return flight, and not the outbound flight. 
Ms P says this wasnt what she thought she had purchased and says the flight operators 
website was confusing and misleading. Ms P raised this with the flight operator who 
explained the problems which might arise if she tried to cancel or reverse the upgrade. So, in 
line with the advice given by the flight operator, she agreed to travel in line with her upgrade 
arrangement and complain on her return. Ms P then complained to the flight operator but 
they didnt resolve her complaint. So, Ms P then raised this with Amex who declined both a 
chargeback and Section 75 claim. 
    
Our investigator looked into things for Ms P. He thought Amex hadnt acted unfairly in 
dealing with the chargeback and Section 75 claim. Ms P disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
There are two routes which Amex have taken in dealing with Ms Ps request for a refund of 
the money she paid for the flight upgrade. These are chargeback and also Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). I have looked at each in turn below. 
Chargeback 
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants under the relevant card scheme. If I am to direct Amex to refund all or part of 
the cost of the flight upgrade, I must be satisfied that they acted incorrectly in the way they 
made a chargeback claim under the chargeback regulations. I can see that Amex contacted 
Ms P and asked for evidence the goods/services she purchased was not as described or 
defective. Amex wrote to Ms P again and said the information she provided wasnt sufficient 
for them to prove her claim, so they required further information. They asked for a copy of 
the original booking or contract showing the upgrade was for both legs of the journey, 
inbound and outbound. They then put Ms Ps case on her behalf to the flight operator using 
the information she provided. They then received a response from the flight operator saying 
the ticket was utilised by Ms P therefore the service was provided and utilised. They 
provided information which shows Ms P had agreed with the terms and conditions relating to 
the upgrade. And, the information shows the flight upgrade Ms P paid for was for the return 
journey only, and that theyd provided this service. Based on this, Amex preferred the flight 
operators take on matters. 
So, I think Amex have carried out a fair investigation into a chargeback which took into 
account both Ms Ps and the flight operators side of the story. Ultimately, it came down to 
the flight operator proving the upgrade offer Ms P paid for was for the return flight only, and 
not both legs of the journey. And, they proved the flight went ahead and they provided the 
upgrade service to Ms P for her return flight. Ms P hasnt provided any evidence to show the 
upgrade was sold to her as being applicable to both legs of her journey. It follows therefore I 
have no fair or reasonable grounds for saying Amex let Ms P down based on how it carried 
out the chargeback. 
Section 75 claim 
One effect of section 75 is that, where an individual (the debtor) buys goods from a supplier 
using credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the lender (creditor) and the 
supplier, that individual can bring a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against 
the lender in the same way they could against the supplier. On the evidence provided, Im 
satisfied theres relevant debtor-creditor-supplier arrangements in place between Ms P, 
Amex and the flight operator, and that the transaction was for more than £100, as Section 75 
requires. That means Ms P can bring a claim. It doesnt mean the claim will be successful. 
Amex didnt uphold Ms Ps Section 75 claim on the basis the flight operator proved there had 
been no breach of contract. Amex say a screenshot of the upgrade shows a one-way 
upgrade only and Ms P had to agree to the terms and conditions before fulfilment of the 
booking. I can see Amex asked the flight operator for information and they provided 
screenshots as an example to show what a customer would see when changing a booking. 
This shows a screen where a customer selects which flight the change is for and then a 
screen allowing a customer to review their flights  this screen also shows the seat class, the 
price for the change and asks the customer to click the continue button. It then confirms the 
price information and then shows the old flight details and the new flight details. Taking this 
into account, it suggests Ms P wouldve seen from the Review your flights screen, that only 
her return flight seat class had been upgraded. I acknowledge this, but it doesnt show       
Ms Ps actual sale journey. And, given that she says the website was misleading, Ive looked 
into this further. 
I can see the flight operator sent Amex a full transaction history for Ms Ps flights. This 
shows Ms P originally booked both seats in economy. The return flight was then upgraded to 
premium economy. Then in January 2020, Ms P upgraded to business class. 
The transaction history shows a step by step action log in real time setting out the changes 
made by Ms P. This shows details of Ms Ps outbound flight and a letter Q which represents 
economy class. The return flight has a letter P which represents premium class. It then 
shows a change being made, and the return flight now has the letter D which represents 
business class. But, the outbound flight still has the letter Q  suggesting this hasnt been 
upgraded. It also shows the price for the upgrade. So, given the details shown here, I 
believe, its more likely than not, this was the Review your flights screen  and this wouldve 
shown the outbound flight was still in economy class  and only the return flight had been upgraded to business class. The transaction history shows Ms P then provided consent for 
the change and also agreed to the terms and conditions.       
Misrepresentation is a false statement of fact or law, made by one party that induces the 
other to contract with it. From the information Ive seen, I cant say the flight operator 
misrepresented the upgrade as being applicable to both legs of the journey. And, Ms P also 
hasnt provided any evidence of this being the case. I note Ms P says the flight operators 
website was confusing but this doesnt amount to a false statement of fact being made. 
Turning to a breach of contract, Ms P hasnt provided any evidence that the upgrade wasnt 
as described. In this case, that wouldve been the sale journey showing the letter D beside 
both flights and not just the return flight. The information Ive seen shows the flight operator 
described the upgrade as being applicable to only the return flight  and theyve delivered 
this service to Ms P. 
I understand Ms P has concerns about whether the flight operator has followed their own 
policy on a 24-hour cooling off period. Ms P also says the flight operator offered to reverse 
the upgrade and reinstate her flight to economy class but wanted £1,200 to do so. These are 
issues Ms P will need to raise with the flight operator. I do understand why Ms P feels it was 
unfair for the flight operator to offer to reverse the upgrade for a further fee, but my role here 
is to look at Amexs handling of Ms Ps chargeback and Section 75 claim rather than the 
flight operators terms under their policy.     
I can see Ms P says shes unhappy about the timescales Amex gave the flight operator 
when looking at the chargeback. She says Amex told her that if the flight operator didnt 
respond within 60 days, they would uphold the chargeback. Ms P says Amex allowed the 
flight operator significantly longer than the 60 days so she feels she was misled about the 
timescales involved and about upholding the chargeback. Ms P confirms Amex havent 
looked into this and, from the information Amex have provided, I cant see theyve addressed 
this complaint. So, Amex should look into this complaint and respond directly to Ms P. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman