DRN-3516197
The complaint
Mrs S complains that a new vehicle supplied under a hire agreement (HA) from Motability 
Operations Limited (MOL) was unfit for purpose and mis-sold.
What happened
Mrs S took out the HA in in May 2021, in her capacity as appointee for a relative who has a 
disability. The HA was set to run for three years and Mrs S made an advance rental payment 
of over £1,200. A few weeks after she got the vehicle, Mrs S contacted MOL because she 
didnt think it was fit for purpose. She says the car was promoted (on the Motability website) 
as suitable for larger families but theres no rear air conditioning so it was stifling with seven 
people in and some of her family members have asthma meaning they found the heat 
particularly unbearable. She also found it was difficult to access, due to the absence of grab 
handles, and she says any amount of water on the floor made it very slippery as there are no 
mats.
MOL says it was up to Mrs S to ensure that the vehicle she chose suited her needs (and 
those of her family) before she ordered it. And her attention was drawn specifically to things 
like access and air conditioning before purchase and she was offered mats as an optional 
extra but declined. As a goodwill gesture, MOL offered to end the HA early and waive a 
cancellation fee of £250. Alternatively, MOL said rear air-conditioning could not be retro fitted 
but it would cover the cost of installing grab handles and mats in the current vehicle if Mrs S 
continued with the HA.
Mrs S agreed to the second option initially. She says she didnt think she could afford the 
advance payment on a different version of the same vehicle with a higher specification. But, 
she found out subsequently that she could get a grant for this and placed an order for a 
higher specification model. Mrs S thinks she should have been told about the grant before 
she took out the HA for the first car - in which case she would have chosen the higher 
specification vehicle to begin with. The new car couldnt be delivered until February 2022 
and Mrs S thought it was unfair that she had to keep an unsuitable vehicle in the meantime. 
She wanted MOL to adapt her existing car as well as cancelling the HA when the new car 
was delivered.
Our investigator considered the evidence. She thought the vehicle was unfit for purpose 
because theres no ventilation in the back - or rear windows - and its difficult to get in and 
out of the rear without grab handles meaning head rests have to be used for support. She 
found it understandable Mrs S didnt realise this before she got the car - because she wasnt 
able to take it for a test drive. The investigator recommended the complaint should be 
upheld. She said MOL should pay for grab handles and mats to be installed in the current 
vehicle and refund the advance rental in full when the HA ends (after the new car is 
delivered). She thought it was fair that MOL should also pay Mrs S £150 compensation for 
associated inconvenience and distress.
MOL disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, 
MOL doesnt accept it did anything wrong. It says Mrs S was asked to consider whether the 
car suited her needs at the outset. And she was reminded to think about things like ease of 
access and air conditioning specifically at the time - and she was offered mats but declined. 
MOL states that the offer to cancel the HA and/or pay for grab handles and mats to be fitted 
was a goodwill gesture, made in an effort to assist Mrs S, which was more than fair. It 
doesnt agree that the advance payment should be refunded in full  it considers this should 
be pro rata  and says it shouldnt have to pay compensation in these circumstances.    
I wasnt minded to reach the same outcome as the investigator so I issued a provisional 
decision on 11 May 2022 to let the parties see my provisional findings and respond (if they 
wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out what I decided provisionally, and 
why, (in italics) below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
I can see Mrs S feels strongly that she has been treated unfairly here. I have no doubt
its been stressful and frustrating to find the car supplied didnt suit her and her family. I
realise a suitable vehicle is essential for them and I have given careful thought to what
happened.
Mrs S brings her complaint to our service because she acquired the car under a HA from
MOL. I think its helpful to explain at the outset that the Motability Scheme operates so that a
person in receipt of disability benefit to assist with getting around (or an individual appointed 
to deal with this on their behalf) is able to choose a vehicle from any accredited dealer. And 
finance payments are made direct to MOL by diverting the eligible persons relevant mobility 
benefit. 
Im satisfied that MOL, as the supplier of the vehicle under the HA, was required to ensure
that it was of satisfactory quality when Mrs S got it - under the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(CRA). The quality of goods includes their general state and condition as well as fitness for
purpose, amongst other things. And what amounts to satisfactory quality will vary
according to individual circumstances. In this case, Mrs S doesnt say the car was faulty as 
such, but rather she feels it was unsuitable for purpose. 
Im satisfied that the CRA says goods should be fit for their usual purpose or any purpose 
specifically made known at the point of supply. As I understand it, Mrs S says this car was 
unfit for purpose as a family vehicle generally and it didnt meet the particular needs of her 
and her family because of the absence of grab handles, mats and rear air conditioning. 
Im not persuaded that this car was unfit for purpose generally because it didnt have these 
three things. Im satisfied that family cars often come without such items. And I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect these as standard  even in a bigger vehicle like this one, 
thats said to be suited to a larger family. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the car failed to meet a specific purpose that Mrs S made 
known before she ordered this particular vehicle. Mrs S told us that she spoke to someone at 
MOL about getting a car under the Motability scheme and discussed her familys needs. The 
call handler said she probably needed a larger car and referred her to the Motability website 
where further information was available. Mrs S has confirmed that she then visited the 
website and decided on a model she could afford and contacted a dealer.
Im satisfied that Im able to consider what was said in pre-contract negotiations between 
Mrs S and the dealer in this complaint about MOL under section 56 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. I cant be certain what was said at the time exactly. And where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.Mrs S told us the specific model she wanted wasnt on the forecourt when she visited the
dealership but she was shown an upgraded version of the same car. Mrs S has confirmed
that the dealer pointed out there were some differences between the models. Ive also seen 
a suitability questionnaire the dealer completed (which is a requirement under the Motability 
Scheme). This says Mrs S was asked to consider the vehicles specification and think 
specifically about whether things like air conditioning, ease of access and grab handles
(amongst other things) were suitable for the needs of her and her family. Im satisfied that 
Mrs S signed this questionnaire to confirm she had reviewed it and been told about optional 
extras available - such as adaptations that can help with getting in and out of the car - and 
she could afford the advance payment.
Based on the evidence Ive got, I think it looks as if Mrs S was aware that the car she
ordered did not have mats and grab rails. I note she didnt raise any issue for two weeks or
so after collection. And, if she had expected grab rails and mats to be present, I would have
expected her to raise this the day she got the car or very soon after. Ive also seen nothing to 
suggest that Mrs S told the dealer that she needed rear air-conditioning. I appreciate she 
may say she thought this came as standard and she didnt realise it was absent in this 
particular car. And I accept a test drive might have alerted Mrs S to that fact but she was 
unable to take the model she wanted for a test drive at the relevant time. 
Its not clear if Mrs S was unable to take test drive due to covid restrictions or simply 
because the dealer didnt have the car she was interested in available but I dont think the 
reason is material. Im satisfied that Mrs S was prompted to consider this functionality before 
she took out the HA. And I think relevant information was probably available in the vehicle 
specification - so Mrs S could have asked for more information if this was a particular issue 
for her and her family.
Ultimately, I think it was up to Mrs S to decide if the car she ordered was suitable. Its
unfortunate that she found it wasnt after she had the car for a few weeks. But, Im not
persuaded (on the current evidence) that I can reasonably find this car was unfit for purpose
in general terms. And, having considered whether Mrs S made specific any needs known at
the outset, Im not persuaded she was misled or told that this car was fit for a specific
purpose that proved to be incorrect. It follows, I cant fairly find the car was of unsatisfactory
quality when it was supplied.
I think MOLs goodwill offer to end the HA without charging a cancellation fee or retro-fit grab
rails and mats seems fair. MOL has said it will also refund the advance payment pro rata.
I understand Mrs S feels she should have this paid back in full. She told us a grant was
available to cover this cost and she feels she should have been told about that before she
got the first car - in which case she would never have had to make the advance payment in
the first place. I cant see that Mrs S has raised this issue specifically with MOL - so Im 
conscious MOL hasnt had a chance to respond. But I think I have enough information to 
deal with the issue and its reasonable to do so. The parties have the chance to provide 
further submissions about that in response to my provisional decision if they want to.
The grant that Mrs S refers to is provided by a charity. Ive seen nothing to show that Mrs S
discussed this with MOL or the dealer before she took out the HA. I understand she
considers they should have told her about the availability of such grants in any event - she
says she only found out about the grant during a conversation with MOL when she looked
into ordering the higher specification car. And shes been told that she was definitely entitled 
to this because her relative receives the higher rate of mobility benefit. I dont think thats 
quite correct, however. As far as I can see, all cars supplied under the Motability Scheme 
require the relevant benefit recipient to be entitled to the higher rate of mobility benefit. And the charitable grants are means tested - so entitlement is dependent on means and it is not 
automatic based on the level of benefit.
I dont think it was up to the dealer to advise Mrs S about charitable grants in these
circumstances. I can see that the website Mrs S was directed to by MOL, before she took
out the HA, has information about grants. And Mrs S has confirmed that she looked at this
website in order to decide on which car she wanted before taking out the HA. Ive checked
the website and I can see a link beside the advance payment amount for the car that Mrs S
chose. This link takes you through to a page that explains that the advance rental is not
refundable in full and contains a further link to information about grants. I appreciate Mrs S
may say she didnt click on these links. But, Im satisfied the information was made available.
And I think it was a matter for her to decide if she wanted to look into this further. Im not
persuaded that MOL should be required to refund the advance payment because Mrs S was
unaware that she could apply for a grant to cover this.
Even if I was persuaded that the advance payment should be refunded however, we 
wouldnt usually require a finance provider to refund this sort of payment in full. As Ive 
explained already (via the investigator), the advance payment Mrs S made under the HA 
wasnt a deposit or down payment - in that Mrs S was never going to own this car at any 
stage. Instead, the advance payment here was for the hire of the car over the term of the 
agreement and this has the effect of reducing the monthly payments - meaning its fair for 
this payment to be refunded on a pro-rata basis
For the reasons set out, Im not satisfied that MOL did something wrong. From the
evidence Ive got, Im not persuaded that misrepresentations were made when the car was
supplied - in that I dont think Mrs S was told something untrue that she reasonably relied on
when she decided to acquire this particular vehicle and take out the finance. Im not
satisfied the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. And I cant fairly find
MOL should pay compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I consider the offer MOL made to resolve this matter seems fair. Im not persuaded that I can
reasonably require MOL to do more than it has already offered - by which I mean (for the
avoidance of any doubt) cover the cost of fitting grab handles and mats and cancel the HA
when the new car becomes available, waive the cancellation fee and refund the advance
payment pro rata.
I understand Mrs S has now taken delivery of the new vehicle so she no longer needs to
have grab handles and mats fitted to the current car. And I am minded therefore to leave it to 
Mrs S to decide if she wants to take MOL up on its offer to cancel the HA without charging a
cancellation fee and refund the advance payment pro rata.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further
comments or information 1 June 2022. I explained that Id look at all of the evidence 
available after that date and make my final decision.
MOL hasnt objected to my provisional conclusions but Mrs S doesnt agree. I can see she 
feels let down by my provisional findings. Amongst other things, she says she hasnt been 
listened to and I havent understood her complaint. I would like to thank Mrs S for providing 
such a detailed response. I understand this has been a difficult time for her and her family 
and I am very sorry to hear about her personal circumstances. As I said in my provisional decision, I have no doubt that the suitability of this car was 
essential for Mrs S and her family. And I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation she 
found herself in when she discovered the car didnt meet their needs. My role here however 
is to consider the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. In doing so, I cant take sides. I must be fair to both parties. 
I want to assure Mrs S that I have considered carefully everything thats been said and sent 
to us. I have read all of her correspondence and Ive listened to recordings of calls she made 
to this service. If I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent 
thought about it. I have. But, Im concentrating in this decision on the key issues that I think 
are relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall. 
Having considered all of the evidence, I remain of the view that there are not sufficient fair 
and reasonable grounds to require MOL to do more than it has already offered. I realise Mrs 
S feels this is unfair. She says they were unable to test drive, or even sit in, the car before 
placing an order. She told us they just stood by the doors next to an upgraded version at the 
dealership  and she didnt think an upgrade was needed to get grab handles. She has also 
explained that she didn't complain for two weeks because no one else was allowed to travel 
with them due to Covid restrictions - so they were unaware of the access issues for a time. 
As I acknowledged in my provisional decision, I accept Mrs S was unable to sit in or test 
drive the specific car she wanted before placing her order. And I appreciate she feels 
strongly that this car should have come with grab handles, mats and rear air conditioning as 
standard  given it was promoted as a vehicle thats suitable for persons with a disability and 
large families. I also understand that she didnt notice these things were absent for a few 
weeks because they had no reason to use the rear of the car until then. 
For the reasons Ive explained however, Im not persuaded that these items come as 
standard in this sort of vehicle generally. I appreciate Mrs S has sourced another car from a 
different manufacturer which has exactly what she considers should have been provided in 
the first place  two grab handles as well as carpeted floors and air vents throughout. I note 
that this car cost about £4,000 more than the one MOL first supplied however. And, whilst 
Im pleased to hear that Mrs S has been able to source a more suitable vehicle, Im afraid 
this doesnt mean I can reasonably conclude that the car MOL supplied originally was unfit 
for purpose generally or otherwise of unsatisfactory quality. 
I remain of the view it was up to Mrs S to decide if the car she ordered was suitable for her 
and her family. Im satisfied that Mrs S was aware that the car she saw on the forecourt was 
not the same as the one she ordered. Ive seen nothing to show that she was told that the 
car she ordered came with grab rails, mats and rear air conditioning. I think the needs of 
individuals and families differ widely - which is probably one of the reasons for MOL asking 
customers to consider and sign a suitability questionnaire before placing an order under the 
scheme. Im satisfied that Mrs S signed the suitability questionnaire here to confirm that she 
had specifically considered issues such as access (amongst other things). And I cant fairly 
conclude that the cars specification was misrepresented at the outset. 
It follows, Im not persuaded that this car was of unsatisfactory quality and Im unable to 
reasonably require MOL to do anything else. I realise this decision is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mrs S but shes not obliged to accept what Ive said - in which case, it 
remains open to her to pursue this matter by any other means available. 
I understand the car has now been returned. Mrs S says shes had a payment back from 
MOL - which she assumed related to vehicle payments as this did not mention the initial 
deposit. I havent seen any relevant paperwork but MOL told us a payment was issued 
consisting of a pro-rata refund of the advance payment plus a good condition bonus 
payment of £100 (as a thank you for returning the vehicle in good condition). So I think it 
sounds as if the payment Mrs S has received probably included the advance payment refund (pro-rata). If Mrs S is in any doubt about the nature of the payment its open to her to contact 
MOL direct about that.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman