DRN-3788924
The complaint
Mr W complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) was irresponsible to lend to him and hes 
struggled to meet his loan repayments.  
Mr W has brought his complaint to us via a claims management company but I will refer to 
him throughout for simplicity. 
What happened
L2G agreed a loan of £250 for Mr W in March 2022. He owed £925 in total, to be repaid at 
£51 a month over 18 months (all figures rounded).  
I understand that Mr W made his first few payments but missed payments after that. He 
complained to L2G in September 2022. Mr W said L2G was irresponsible to have agreed to 
lend to him because the loan was unaffordable.
L2G didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said conducted an affordability assessment before 
lending to him. This involved checking what hed said about his income using an online 
verification tool and checking his credit file. L2G says it took into account Mr Ws credit 
commitments and estimated his monthly expenditure. It found that the loan would be 
affordable for him and disagreed that it had been irresponsible to lend to him. 
L2G offered to reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Ws loan by half (from £719 to £382) 
as a gesture of goodwill due to his financial circumstances in order to resolve the complaint.
Mr W referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They found that L2G didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit 
agreement. Mr W didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for his complaint to 
come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as L2G, need to abide by. L2G 
will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I 
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into the credit agreement, L2G needed to check that Mr W could afford to 
meet his repayments out of his usual means over the term of the loan. This means he should 
be able to make his repayments without having to borrow further and without experiencing 
financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks L2G carried out needed to be 
proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for example) and to Mr Ws 
circumstances.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did L2G complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did L2G make a fair 
lending decision? 
Having considered everything carefully, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for him and Ive explained below how Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
L2G carried out an income and expenditure assessment when Mr W applied for his loan - it 
recorded his monthly income as £1,650 and estimated that his living costs came to £625. 
L2G said that it used a credit reference agency to verify Mr Ws bank account and check that 
the income he declared matched what was on his bank statements, on average. L2G said 
that it seemed Mr W received a minimum of about £1,441 a month so it relied on this figure 
in its assessment. L2G says it used information from the Office of National Statistics to 
estimate Mr Ws expenses and checked his credit file. It calculated Mr Ws total monthly 
expenses to be about £1,224, which left him enough disposable income to afford the loan 
repayments of £51. 
L2G provided copies of the credit file information it relied on and Ive reviewed these. The 
credit file information shows that Mr W had total debts of £29,522. £28,374 of this was his 
mortgage with a monthly payment of £419. He owed £925 across two credit cards, above his 
combined limit of £900. Mr W also had a loan with a balance of £156 and repayments of 
£20, and two old defaults of about £240.    
While there was some adverse information on Mr Ws credit file, it wasnt significantly large 
or recent enough to suggest that he was having problems managing his money at that time. 
It seems he had few existing commitments and the amount of credit L2G agreed for him 
wasnt so large relative to his means that it posed an obvious risk to him of not being able to 
meet his repayments without difficulty. 
Altogether, I think the checks L2G carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. I dont think there was anything in the information it gathered that should have 
prompted it to complete further checks before lending, and it wasnt unfair to lend to Mr W on 
the basis of the information it had. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing news for Mr W but, having considered everything 
carefully, I have concluded that L2G wasnt irresponsible when it lent to him on this occasion 
and so I am not upholding his complaint. 
L2G needs to treat Mr W with forbearance and due consideration if he is having problems 
repaying his loan. This might involve agreeing a repayment plan for the balance or, for 
example, waiving some of it as it offered to do when Mr W complained. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Loans 2 Go 
Limited and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Michelle BoundyOmbudsman