DRN-3438382
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the handling of her claim by Aviva Insurance Limited to repair a 
leaking underground pipe and faulty boiler under her home emergency policy. 
Mrs B is represented by her son Mr I in this complaint. 
What happened
Mrs B owns two houses next door to each other. She lives in one with Mr I and the other is 
rented out. Mrs B has a home emergency policy in place with Aviva to provide cover for the 
tenanted property.
In March 2021 the tenant reported water coming up through the floor. Mr I contacted Aviva to 
make a claim. This was on a Sunday and Aviva attended the following Thursday. An 
underfloor leak was detected using specialist equipment. An appointment was arranged for 
the floor to be excavated eleven days later. At the appointment the leak was fixed and a 
temporary floor covering was put in place to make the area safe.
Aviva says Mr I asked if further excavation could be carried out to replace or move the 
underfloor pipe to avoid further leaks. It agreed to only repair the leak that had been 
identified.   
Mr I reported a problem with the boiler. He says it stopped working when the engineer had 
done something to it, which was during the initial visit to identify the leak. Multiple engineer 
visits took place to try and fix it, without success. Because of the delays Mr I employed a 
private engineer to repair the boiler and heating system. In addition to these issues he says 
Avivas engineer caused damage to a plaster wall. 
Aviva offered to cover the cost of Mr Is call out charge for his engineer, and a replacement 
pressure sensor. It also offered to pay the cost of the immersion heater diagnosis and cable 
installation. Mr I arranged to have the boiler replaced. Aviva offered what it would pay for a 
replacement, albeit it says the boiler hadnt been shown to be beyond economical repair 
(BER). In addition, Aviva offered £300 compensation for communication issues and the 
inconvenience caused to Mrs B.        
Mr I thought more compensation was due. He says he lost a contract role due to the time he 
spent dealing with this matter and allowing access to engineers. In addition, he says the 
inconvenience caused to the tenants was significant. He says Mrs B agreed a rental 
discount because of the lack of heating and disruption caused. Mr I wants Aviva to recognise 
these points in its compensation payment. Because he remained unhappy, he referred the 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged Avivas explanation as to 
why it took from Sunday to Thursday for an engineer to attend, given the high demand for 
services in Mrs Bs area at that time. 
He noted Aviva had asked if the water main could be turned off, in an effort to prevent further 
damage occurring. He highlighted the confusion over whether the boiler was covered as it 
was housed next door and there were some issues with how it and the hot water cylinder 
had been installed. But he thought Aviva had been fair in offering to pay for some of the 
engineer costs Mr I had paid in addition to £300 compensation.
Mr I disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
thought more compensation was required to acknowledge the impact Avivas delays and 
poor service had on him, Mrs B, and her tenants. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mr I and Mrs B, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Delay in repairing the leak
When Mr I first reported the claim, it took approximately four days until an engineer was able 
to attend. I can see from the records provided that specialist equipment was used to locate 
the leak. From here arrangements were made to excavate the leaking pipe and carry out the 
repair. 
The Insurance Product Information Document Aviva sent to Mrs B says cover is in place to 
respond to emergency situations. This includes plumbing issues. The cover that is provided 
isnt in dispute. Mrs Bs tenant described water coming up through the floor. I think this 
reasonably constitutes an emergency in line with the policy terms - so Id expect Aviva to 
arrange a response quickly once it was aware of the leak. In the circumstances described I 
dont think four days is a reasonable timeframe in which to arrange for an engineer to attend. 
Ive listened to the phone call when Mr I first contacted Aviva. Hes told to expect a call to 
arrange an appointment. Ive also listened to the call that took place the next day when the 
appointment is arranged. The agent says, its extremely busy in that area this week and the 
earliest appointment isnt till the coming Thursday. 
Aviva accepts it should have attended sooner. I acknowledge its agent referred to the area in 
which Mrs Bs lives being very busy at that time. But Aviva is responsible to arrange an 
emergency response under its policy terms.  
Mr I refers to additional damage caused because of the time taken to stop the leak. I note 
that during the initial call he was asked if he could switch off the water at the stop cock. Mr I 
says he thinks the leak is with a heating pipe so that wouldnt help. 
We asked Mr I if he could show that additional damage was caused due to the leak not 
being fixed until around two weeks after the claim was made. He didnt have evidence to 
show this. But says its common sense to expect the leak would cause further damage.
I have looked at the photos showing the excavation work and the area after the repairs were 
finished. I understand a temporary reinstatement of the flooring was put in place, which can 
be seen in the photos.
I asked Aviva what its first engineer did to stop the leak. It responded to say that as the leak was on the central heating pipe, turning off the water would not have made a difference. And 
that its records dont show that any action was taken by the first engineer to stop the leak. 
Once the leak was identified it was a further eleven days before the floor was excavated and 
the leak was fixed. In the circumstances this seems like a long time to respond to the 
ongoing leak. I asked Aviva why it wasnt able to respond sooner and what is the expected 
response time in this situation.
Aviva responded to say that when the first engineer attended, he confirmed a dig was 
required to expose the pipes and complete a repair. Following this a specialist team has to 
attend to carry out the dig and complete the repair. It says there are only a certain number of 
engineers who can do this type of work. And that the expected response time is the first 
available appointment.   
From the records I can see that once the pipe was excavated, the leak was found, and the 
problem was resolved. Aviva says the void was then filled and the floor levelled. Ive read the 
policy terms to see what is expected to happen here. The terms say:
What is covered: Plumbing and Drainage: 
The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or replacing leaking 
pipesThis will include temporary reinstatement of any excavations carried out as part of 
the claim.
Based on the photos and records provided, Aviva dealt with the leak and reinstatement as 
required by the policy terms. The terms dont set out timeframes for responding. But as an 
emergency response was expected and there was an ongoing leak - I think Mrs B should 
have reasonably expected the engineer responses to have been quicker.
Mr I says he thought there may be further leaks with the heating pipes and wanted the 
engineer to excavate further. From the records the plumber says he didnt agree to moving 
pipes or digging further. This is because his instructions were to repair the leak that had 
been identified at the first appointment. 
I understand why Mr I was concerned about the potential for further leaks. But no other leaks 
werent identified by the thermal imaging that was carried out. The policy terms dont allow 
for further work other than to resolve the emergency reported. I dont think its been shown 
that Aviva behaved unreasonably here in fixing the leak its plumber had identified. But I do 
think the response couldve been quicker.
I acknowledge Mr Is point that further damage was caused because of the time taken to 
repair the leak. Aviva says the water leak will already have damaged the flooring and it isnt 
responsible for this. 
I dont think its been shown that further damage was caused because of the time Aviva took 
to respond. The flooring had already been damaged by the water leak prior to Aviva being 
contacted. Even if Avivas engineers attended sooner the flooring will still have been 
exposed to the water leak. Based on the evidence I dont think Mr Is shown that Aviva is 
responsible for additional repair costs.         
Boiler repairs/location of boiler
The boiler that services the tenants property is located next door at Mrs Bs property. Mr I 
explains the layout of the two houses was changed to help the tenant who couldnt afford to 
pay the rent for a larger property. Partition walls were added that reduced the size of the property. But this means access to the boiler is only now possible from Mrs Bs home. Mr I 
says it isnt a communal boiler  it services the tenants property only. Aviva says this 
caused confusion, which is apparent from the notes provided.  
Aviva sent a gas engineer when Mr I reported an issue with the boiler not working after its 
plumber had first attended. At this time, it says it shouldve advised that the boiler didnt meet 
the eligibility criteria because of its location. It didnt do this, and says confusion occurred 
when several engineers then refused to work on the boiler - because it was housed next 
door. 
I can see that Avivas engineers identified a boiler filling loop hadnt been installed and the 
immersion heater hadnt been wired up. Aviva says the work needed to install the filling loop, 
and wire up the immersion heater, isnt covered by its policy. However, it subsequently 
agreed to pay the cost of the private installation Mr I had paid to complete this work. 
The policy terms, under the Important Information section say:
Property: Your let house comprising the private home, garage and domestic outbuildings 
(excluding sheds, greenhouses, non permanent structures) within the property boundary at 
the address shown on your policy schedule.
I think its clear from the policy terms that cover is provided for the address stated in the 
policy schedule. I havent been provided with a copy of the schedule. But neither party 
disputes that the insured address is the property where the leak occurred. The boiler isnt 
situated in this address, so it isnt covered by the policy. 
The General Exclusions section of the policy terms say:
The following are also excluded from cover and therefore the Underwriter will not be liable 
for any of the following:
e) systems/equipment/appliances that have not been installed, serviced or maintained 
regularly according to British Standards and/or manufacturers instructions; or that are 
subject to a manufacturers recall. 
Avivas records show the filling loop for the boiler hadnt been installed and the immersion 
heater hadnt been wired up  so it hadnt been installed either. I think the policy terms 
reasonably show that there is no cover in place for this work to be completed.  
I understand a boiler health check needs to take place within 90 days of the start of the 
policy. This allows for eligibility checks to be carried out. Mrs Bs policy didnt start until 
March 2021 and the claim was made within the first month. This is why the issues with the 
boilers location, and how it had been installed, werent known to Aviva. However, I can see 
from the records that it did agree to continue with repairs, to the heating system, despite this.
I have thought about Mr Is view that the service provided was poor, involving many engineer 
visits over several weeks. 
I can see that the issue with the location of the boiler caused confusion and that engineers 
refused to carry out any work on more than one occasion because of this. There was no 
filling loop, which delayed the repairs. And there appears to have some confusion about the 
order of work, which created further issues. For example, the notes say that before fitting the 
filling loop the plumber needed an electrician to wire up the immersion heater. But then the 
electrician who attended couldnt fit the immersion heater because the system was 
unvented. Mr I says over six engineer visits took place with Aviva, but the private engineer he 
employed had no issues carrying out the repairs. 
I think the repairs couldve been handled more effectively with clearer communication for the 
trades people attending. I acknowledge the boiler wasnt located in the insured property, and 
parts of the heating system hadnt been installed as per the requirements of the policy. But 
Aviva did agree to continue with the repairs, so its responsible for ensuring this was carried 
out in a timely and effective manner.
Plaster wall
Mr I says Avivas engineers damaged a plaster wall when accessing the boiler in Mrs Bs 
property. I understand the door to the cupboard where the boiler is located, catches on the 
carpet, but Mr I explains the door does open enough to allow access. He thinks one of 
Avivas engineers pulled the door with too much force causing damage to the plaster wall. 
I have seen photos of the cracked plaster next to the door that leads to the boiler. I note 
Aviva asked the engineer, Mr I thought had caused the damage, to comment on this. He 
recalled the visit but denied causing any damage. He says several engineers attended in 
relation to the repairs.
In its response to Mr Is complaint Aviva says that multiple engineers have attended 
including those Mr I instructed privately. It doesnt think its engineers were responsible for 
the damage claimed. 
Ive thought about whether its reasonable to consider Avivas engineer caused the crack in 
the plaster. From the photos there is a large crack going all the way up the wall at the 
junction with the door frame. I dont dispute Mr Is view that an engineer was seen causing 
the damage. But I must also consider that this is denied by the engineer. It also seems 
unreasonable to expect that this level of damage would be expected when opening the door 
to gain access to the boiler. Based on the evidence I cant be certain that Aviva is 
responsible for this damage, given there were a number engineers who accessed the boiler. 
This includes those instructed privately by Mr I. 
Compensation
I think Aviva shouldve responded more quickly to ensure an engineer attended to resolve 
the leak. I accept the demands on Avivas services were high at the time and this resulted in 
the waiting times discussed. But this isnt Mrs Bs fault and I must consider the impact this 
has had on her. 
I cant consider the impact on the tenants as they arent party to the policy. I acknowledge Mr 
Is comments that he was impacted in dealing with the claim and arranging access for 
numerous engineer visits. I can understand that this must have been time consuming and 
frustrating for him. But its the impact on Mrs B as the policy holder I must consider. 
Mrs B was inconvenienced by the access to the boiler required by the engineers. As well as 
the cost of employing a private engineer to carry out repairs and install a new boiler. 
Aviva has offered to pay for the work that was required to fit a filling loop, the cost of the 
valve for the boiler, as well as to diagnose and wire the immersion heater. It also agrees to 
pay for the engineer call out and cost of a pressure sensor when this was replaced. In 
addition to this it offered £470, which is the cost it would incur to supply a replacement boiler. 
Aviva also offered £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused. In the circumstances I think its fair that Aviva offered to pay for these repairs and the 
contribution toward the new boiler. I note the boiler wasnt confirmed to be BER and it was 
Mrs Bs decision to replace it without allowing Aviva the opportunity to repair it. The policy 
terms only require a payment to be provided when the boiler is confirmed BER. But in the 
circumstances, I think its offer is reasonable and more than Aviva is required to do under 
Mrs Bs policy terms. 
I accept that Mrs B and Mr I dont think £300 compensation is adequate in these 
circumstances, and Im sorry to disappoint them. But based on the evidence provided I think 
Avivas offer is fair.  
In summary I dont think Aviva treated Mrs B fairly because of the delay in resolving the leak. 
But I think its offer to pay for the work she arranged privately, including a contribution toward 
the new boiler and £300 compensation is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman