DRN-1700579
 
The complaint
Mr G says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him. 
 What happened
This complaint is about a running credit facility and four instalment loans Sunny provided to 
Mr G between May 2014 and November 2016. Sunny firstly provided Mr G with a running 
credit facility and Mr G made three drawdowns against this. He repaid all his required 
instalments. Sunny then provided Mr G with four instalment loans for between £100 and 
£250 to be repaid in six monthly instalments. There was a break of eleven months between 
the repayment of loan two and Mr G taking out loan three. Mr G repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Gs complaint in part and thought loan four shouldnt have been 
given. Sunny agreed, but Mr G didnt respond and so the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
For the running credit facility, Sunny asked Mr G for information about his income. He said 
his monthly income was £950. The account ran for 11 months and Mr G made three 
drawdowns which he repaid in five monthly instalments. Mr G didnt exceed his credit limit 
and repaid his required instalments on time. 
For loans one to four, Sunny asked Mr G about his income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit checks. Mr G said he now earned £1,083.33 and his expenditure was between 
£214 and £912. I think the eleven month gap between loans two and three is significant. And 
so I think Sunny could regard loan three as the start of a new chain of lending and carry out 
the affordability checks that were appropriate. I think Sunnys affordability checks went far 
enough for loans one to four. 
For the running credit facility and loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was 
apparent about Mr Gs circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr G provided or the 
information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what Mr G was saying. So I cant say that Sunny was wrong to have provided 
the running credit facility or loans one to three.
But, as our adjudicator explained, Sunnys checks for loan four showed that Mr G would be 
unable to sustainably repay his loan without further borrowing. This was because Mr Gs 
stated monthly expenditure was £912 against an income of £1,083. This left Mr G with £171 
to meet his expected monthly repayment for loans three and four of £108.60. I think this 
wouldnt leave Mr G with enough for any unexpected expenses or emergencies. So I think 
Sunny was wrong to have provided loan four.
 Putting things right
To put things right for Mr G, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Mr G paid on loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan four from Mr Gs credit file;
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Gs 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr G 
compensation as set out above, as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman