DRN-3710937
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the valuation he was provided with by his motor insurer, 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy), after the van hed insured with it 
was declared a total loss. 
All references to Markerstudy include its agents. 
What happened
Mr L was involved in a non-fault accident as a result of which the van he was driving was 
declared a total loss. He initially made a claim to the third party insurer but later decided to 
claim on his own policy. 
Markerstudy initially valued the van at £1,500 but later made Mr L an offer of £2,200 for the 
total loss value of the van. Mr L wasnt happy with this offer and said the van was worth 
more. Markerstudy didnt change its decision and said the valuation was based on two 
motor-trade guides. 
Mr L then complained to us.  He said the van was worth in excess of £5,000 and that he had 
found adverts for similar vehicles which were on sale for around £5,000. He said the 
motor-trade guide valuation that the insurer had used was incorrect and that the valuation 
was based on photographs and not an actual inspection of the van. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our Investigators who didnt think Markerstudy had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in arriving at its offer. Mr L didnt agree and asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. He said if the van had been sold just before the accident it would 
have been worth over £4,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the same reasons provided by 
our Investigator. I know Mr L will be disappointed with this. I can see that he has invested a 
lot of time and effort in bringing his complaint to Markerstudy and to us. Nevertheless, we do 
have an established approach when it comes to complaints similar to Mr Ls and, in this case 
I think that, on the whole, Markerstudy has acted in line with it. 
Mr Ls policy says that Markerstudy will pay the market value i.e. the value of the insured 
vehicle up to a maximum of £45,000 at the time of loss or damage compared with one of the 
same make, model and condition. 
Its not my role to decide what the value of the van is but to decide whether Markerstudy 
made an offer which was fair and reasonable based on the evidence available to it. 
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive as they are based on extensive 
nationwide research of likely selling prices. And I must emphasise that I will only direct a 
business to increase its valuation if I consider that it is unfair.
Markerstudy used the valuations it obtained from two guides. These were £1,975 and £2,338 
respectively. Its offer is between those two values and closer to the highest one. Our service 
has access to some additional trade guides nevertheless it has not been possible to obtain 
valuations from them for a combination of reasons including the age of the van and the age 
of the claim. 
 
So, from what Ive seen, I consider Markerstudys offer of £2,200 to be fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances as it is within the range of values provided by the guides.
Mr L has provided copies of adverts for similar vans which I have looked at. The values for 
vans of the same make and model range between £2,950 and £3,995. So I can see why 
Mr L feels that Markerstudys offer is low, though I havent seen evidence that it is worth 
£4,500 or £5,000 like he said. Nevertheless, we dont tend to find adverts as persuasive as 
the motor guides and the reason for this is because it is difficult to know what a car will 
actually sell for from the advert; and a vehicle may be sold for less than the advertised price 
especially with private sales. 
Given all of this, I am satisfied that Markerstudy has looked to value the van in a fair and 
reasonable way and looked to pay the market value in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. So, although I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision I am not 
upholding his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman