DRN-3626560
The complaint
Mr D complains Revolut Ltd unfairly restricted his access to his e-money and cryptocurrency 
wallets. He says this caused him financial loss, inconvenience, and left him at times feeling 
suicidal. He wants compensation for what he went through.
What happened
Our investigator covered the background leading to Mr D bringing this complaint. In 
summary:
Mr D held an e-money wallet containing fiat currency and a crypto-wallet containing 
various forms of cryptocurrency. Revolut placed a partial restriction on both wallets 
on 25 November 2020, followed by a full restriction on 3 March 2021, at which point 
they sold the cryptocurrency they held and deposited the proceeds into Mr Ds e-
wallet. They refunded him three months worth of subscription fees in February 2021. 
Revolut asked Mr D for various bits of information and evidence between November 
2020 and February 2021, which Mr D provided. They later decided to close both 
wallets and terminate their relationship with Mr D, who withdrew his funds on 22 April 
2021.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint in part. They found: 
Revolut acted in line with their legal and regulatory responsibilities when they blocked 
both wallets. But they took too long to conclude their review. As a result, they should 
pay Mr D 8% simple interest per annum on the balance of his e-wallet account 
starting from 25 November 2020 until 22 April 2021, and £200 for the impact their 
delay had on him.
Mr D said Revolut unfairly cancelled crypto trades he tried to make while his crypto 
wallet was blocked. But historical records about the value of the cryptocurrency he 
held indicate his cryptocurrency was worth more when Revolut sold it  so he hadnt 
lost out financially. 
He also said he should have been able to sell his cryptocurrency in April 2021. But 
the basis of upholding Mr Ds complaint was because Revolut ought to have 
completed their review earlier, so a finding that they should have allowed him to sell 
his cryptocurrency later in April 2021 would be contradictory.
Mr D says he didnt receive Revoluts final response letter when it was first sent. But 
Revolut sent him the letter again and he still referred his complaint to our service, so 
this wasnt a good reason to compensate him.
Revolut accepted our investigators outcome, but Mr D didnt. He says he should receive 
greater compensation because of how Revolut left him feeling. He asked for a final decision, 
so his complaint was given to me to decide.
In June 2022 I issued a decision on our services jurisdiction regarding whether we could 
consider the part of Mr Ds complaint about Revolut blocking his crypto wallet. I decided that 
we could consider this part of his complaint, as an ancillary activity. That decision still holds, 
and a copy is attached to the email which also attaches my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part, but I am not awarding more compensation 
than what our investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Revolut have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer and 
verify their sources of income.
Revolut will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential financial loss or other harm. After all, Revolut wouldnt know whether to allow Mr D 
access to his funds and cryptocurrency until they concluded their review.
I have considered why Revolut restricted Mr Ds wallets to carry out a review, and I find the 
basis for their decision was a reasonable step to meet their responsibilities. Mr D may want 
to know the basis for Revoluts decision but there is no obligation for them to disclose their 
reason(s). So, I wont be revealing their reason(s) either.
Revolut should conduct a review and reach a decision without undue delay. After all, the 
longer Mr D didnt have access to his wallets, the greater the harm he could experience. 
Revolut havent been able to explain significant gaps in their timeline between receiving 
information from Mr D and then carrying out the next steps of their review. So, I find they 
ought to have reached a decision sooner than they did, meaning Mr D shouldve been able 
to withdraw the funds in his e-wallet before April 2021 
Mr D says the redress our investigator recommended doesnt fairly reflect the impact 
Revoluts actions had on him. Ive listened to what he said very carefully, and I was sorry to 
hear in particular how he was affected in terms of his well-being. But I must make clear that 
any award of redress I make is not to penalise Revolut. Instead, I need to decide what is a 
fair sum to reflect the foreseeable impact their actions had on him. Its also for him to provide 
reliable evidence to demonstrate his losses.
Our investigator asked Mr D for evidence to demonstrate that the way he felt was caused by 
not having access to his wallets. But no medical evidence was provided. Neither has he 
provided persuasive evidence to show specific financial losses were caused by Revolut 
holding on to his funds for too long. So, I dont find a reliable evidential basis exists to award 
more compensation to Mr D than what our investigator recommended.
Revolut cancelled trades Mr D wanted to make and they sold his cryptocurrency in March 
2021. But if they had allowed the trades to go through, historical records indicate he would 
not have received more than the proceeds Revolut deposited into his e-wallet. So, I dont 
find he experienced a financial loss due to not being able to make those trades. Neither do I find there is a proper basis to conclude Revolut ought to have kept Mr Ds 
cryptocurrency until April 2021 to allow him to sell it. I find instead that Revolut ought to have 
completed their review earlier than they did, and I am awarding compensation that flows 
from this loss. So, I am not awarding him the difference between the amount Revolut sold 
his cryptocurrency for in March 2021 to what he could have sold it for in April 2021.
Mr D said he didnt receive Revoluts final response letter when it was first sent, although Im 
satisfied Revolut sent it. But regardless, Mr D did later receive his final response letter and 
he referred his complaint to our service. So, I dont find there is a good reason to award him 
compensation on this point.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr D accepting my final decision, I direct Revolut Ltd to:
Pay £200 to Mr D. Due to the absence of persuasive evidence to the contrary, I find 
this represents reasonable compensation for the inconvenience and upset he likely 
experienced by not having access to his funds earlier.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balance they held on Mr Ds e-wallet, 
starting from 25 November 2020 until 22 April 2021 when he withdrew his funds.
Make payment of the above to Mr D within 28 days of him accepting my final 
decision.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Revolut Ltd now need to pay Mr D redress 
according to my above directions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman