DRN-2602191
The complaint
 Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) incorrectly stated he had been 
subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Mr B is unhappy with what Barclays 
has offered to resolve his complaint.
What happened
 Mr B had complained to Barclays about Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on his credit 
card account. Barclays sent Mr B their final response letter to his complaint in September 
2019. In this letter Barclays said their records showed Mr B was subject to an IVA and that 
he would need to check with his insolvency practitioner if he was entitled to the refund of 
commission they were offering him. Barclays went on to say that they had sent a copy of the 
letter to Mr Bs insolvency practitioner.
This was incorrect. Mr B has never been subject to an IVA  he has sent us a copy of part of 
his credit record to show this  and so of course he does not have an insolvency practitioner. 
Mr B was concerned by what Barclays had said, he wanted to know if they had made a 
mistake or if their records did actually show incorrect information about him. He wanted any 
incorrect records to be corrected, an apology from Barclays, and compensation for the 
distress this error had caused him. At this stage Mr B employed a solicitor to act on his 
behalf, and they contacted Barclays to set out Mr Bs concerns and to explain what they felt 
Barclays needed to do to put things right. 
Barclays didnt respond to this letter, or to two further letters that Mr Bs solicitor sent to 
Barclays chasing their response. So Mr B and his solicitor referred Mr Bs complaint to us. 
We asked Barclays for their response to Mr Bs concerns, and at this stage Barclays looked 
at what had happened and agreed that they had made a mistake. To put things right 
Barclays offered their apologies, confirmed that there was no record of Mr B being in an IVA 
on their systems, and offered Mr B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
him.
Mr B is not happy with this offer, he feels that the £150 offered is not enough to compensate 
him for what has happened. Specifically, he feels it doesnt recognise how long it took for 
Barclays to respond to his concerns or the additional costs he has incurred in having a 
solicitor represent him in his complaint. 
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to determine whether the compensation Barclays has offered is fair. And 
taking everything into consideration, I think that the £150 Barclays has offered Mr B is a fair 
and reasonable way to settle this complaint in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to 
him. Barclays has also apologised, and it accepts that it made an error in including incorrect 
information in its final response letter to Mr B.
I understand that Mr B is seeking further compensation partly because Barclays didnt 
initially respond to his concerns, and I appreciate that this will have caused Mr B additional 
frustration. But I still think the £150 already offered is appropriate, even in light of this delay.
Mr B has also said that he thinks the compensation paid should reflect the costs hes 
incurred in engaging a solicitor. But I dont think its appropriate to make any further award 
towards Mr Bs legal costs. It was Mr Bs decision to engage a solicitor to represent him, this 
wasnt something he had to do.
I can understand Mr Bs strength of feeling, but taking everything into account, I think the 
compensation that Barclays has already offered is fair.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays should:
- Pay Mr B £150 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the error in their final 
response letter. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if they havent 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman