DRN-3771081
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy how John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) handled his request for 
help to recover money following payment for some airline flights. 
What happened
In May 2021, Mr P paid £289.93 for some flights (including internal ones) to and from 
Ukraine. He paid the airline direct using his JLFS Partnership card. He was due to depart on 
2 July 2021, with the return flight booked for 11 July. He also arranged airport parking, using 
the same JLFS card. 
When he got to the airport for his outbound flight, Mr P was refused boarding access. He has 
said there was confusion with the documents he had to confirm his COVID-19 vaccination 
status. He couldnt speak to anyone at the check-in gate or on the helpline number hed 
been given. Because of this, Mr P had to book alternative flights from a different airport and 
a different airline for the following day and arrange more airport parking. He was able to fly 
on 3 July 2021, and return on his scheduled date, but not on the original booked return flight. 
A day after returning, Mr P got in touch with JLFS to ask for their help in getting his money 
back. He told them that hed had to arrange alternative parking arrangements at a different 
airport, hed had to arrange alternative flights to and from Ukraine, hed had to arrange a 
train transfer whilst there as he hadnt been able to use one of his internal flights, and he 
also said hed had to take a taxi between airports in Ukraine, and the driver had charged him 
in excess of what theyd agreed prior to starting the journey. 
JLFS asked Mr P to complete a dispute declaration form and to provide any evidence he had 
which would support his claim. Mr P did this. A month or so later, JLFS wrote to him to say 
that they were unable to help. They said Mr P didnt have any right to raise a chargeback 
claim as the original flights had gone ahead as scheduled. They said a Section 75 claim 
wouldnt be successful for the same reason. There hadnt been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation as the flights had gone ahead as planned. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint to JLFS. He said he was unhappy with 
how theyd handled his claim, and that they couldnt help him recover his money. JLFS 
issued their final response letter shortly after. They reiterated that they couldnt help as the 
flights had gone ahead so there was no right to claim under the chargeback scheme. 
Still unhappy, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. he 
agreed with JLFS that, because the flights had gone ahead as scheduled and Mr P had 
been classified as a no-show, the terms and conditions confirmed no refund was due. As 
the flights had gone ahead as planned, Mr P didnt have any rights to claim under the 
relevant chargeback scheme or under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mr P didnt accept this and said our investigator had not given an answer on the main point 
of his complaint. That was how JLFS had handled it, especially that theyd promised to give 
Mr P a call to obtain any relevant information prior to making any decision. Mr P said this 
hadnt happened. Our investigator looked into this, and asked JLFS for any available calls to 
listen to. JLFS provided the calls they had, along with an explanation that a couple of calls 
between them and Mr P werent available due to the call handler having left and the calls no 
longer being stored. Our investigator said there wasnt any evidence in the calls available 
that confirm Mr P had been promised a call back. He also said that he didnt think a phone 
call would have changed the outcome for Mr P, as documentary evidence would need to be 
supplied to show why he felt his claim should succeed. 
Mr P remained unhappy. He said it wasnt acceptable that some of his phone calls to JLFS 
werent available. He said that hed been denied the opportunity to supply any relevant 
evidence because of this. 
As Mr P didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for JLFS to ask for a payment Mr P made to be 
refunded. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under Section 75 (S75) of the CCA. S75 says that in 
certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim 
against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of goods or services. 
In Mr Ps case JLFS didnt raise a chargeback for him. Mr P couldnt board the flight hed 
paid for due to some confusion with his COVID-19 vaccination documents, but the flight was 
still available and went ahead. Because of this, JLFS said they had no chargeback claim 
rights under the scheme. I agree with this. Mr P was classified as a no-show for the flights, 
but the flights werent cancelled and went ahead as scheduled. As the service was still 
available, Im satisfied a chargeback claim wouldnt have succeeded, and JLFS acted 
reasonably by not raising one. 
For the same reasons, JLFS declined Mr Ps S75 claim. They said there wasnt any 
evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation from the airline. The flights had gone 
ahead as scheduled, and the terms and conditions provided to Mr P at the time of booking 
confirm that no refund is due for the reason why he wasnt able to take the flight. This meant 
that JLFS were also unable to consider any other additional losses Mr P had incurred. JLFS 
also declined to look at a S75 claim for the taxi fare Mr P had to pay whilst in Ukraine. They 
said they had no grounds to pursue it, as the price had been agreed verbally between the 
taxi driver and Mr P prior to the trip taking place  and there wasnt any evidence to show 
what had been agreed. I think JLFS have acted fairly in this regard too. The contract from 
the airline hasnt been breached. The flights went ahead as scheduled. And the taxi fare was 
agreed verbally by Mr P with the driver. I havent seen anything to confirm what Mr P had agreed prior to taking the trip, so I cant say that JLFS have acted unreasonably by not 
looking into a claim under S75 for that aspect. 
Mr P is most unhappy with how JLFS have handled his request for help. In particular, he 
feels he was lied to by JLFS and had been promised a call back by them to allow him to 
provide additional information to support his claim. He has said those call backs didnt 
happen, and JLFS made their decision before he could supply any additional information he 
wanted to. Mr P is now unhappy as some of his calls with JLFS are no longer available. 
I have listened to the calls that JLFS have been able to provide. Having done so, I havent 
heard any of the JLFS advisers promising Mr P a call back. I appreciate that he wanted this 
to happen, and during one of the calls he explains the best time for him to be contacted, but 
the adviser confirms to him during the call that an email or letter is usually the 
communication method used regarding claims. As all the calls arent available, I cant 
conclude that Mr P wasnt promised a call back on another occasion, but I am satisfied any 
additional phone calls wouldnt have improved the chance of his claim being successful. The 
information Mr P had provided to JLFS was sufficient for them to determine if a chargeback 
or S75 claim would be successful. I dont think additional phone calls would have changed 
that outcome in this case. 
It's regrettable that not all the calls are available from JLFS. Theyve said that the advisers 
no longer work for the bank and their calls arent available. It isnt for me to decide on JLFSs 
procedure for storing calls for advisers that no longer work for them. However, Im not 
persuaded that the lack of any additional calls is helpful to Mr Ps case. Documentary 
evidence is needed to substantiate any claim of this nature, and Mr P had the opportunity to 
provide everything he had to help with his claim to JLFS. When he initially logged his dispute 
with JLFS he was asked to provide evidence of the booking cancellation along with any 
other emails or letters he had received. And he spoke to JLFS on a couple of occasions prior 
to receiving their outcome letter. Based on what he had provided and the opportunity he had 
to provide anything additional to be considered, I cant say that JLFS acted unfairly by not 
raising a chargeback or S75 claim for him. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr P as he feels he is out of pocket through no 
fault of his own. But I wont be asking JLFS to do anything here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman