DRN-3564826
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down two claims under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a timeshare membership from the supplier in March 2009. The cost 
of the timeshare was £5,749 and this was funded by a loan from BPF. The loan was in 
Mr Ms sole name and was repaid in November 2010.
During the course of this complaint Mr M sadly passed away. The complaint therefore is 
being progressed by the estate of Mr M. 
The late Mr M, together with his representatives, have said the points-based timeshare 
was misrepresented. And if it wasnt for these misrepresentations, Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken out the timeshare. In summary theyve said that the availability was 
limited (which wasnt what they were led to believe) and they were never able to get 
their preferred holiday choice. They were also told the resorts would be exclusive, but 
found non-members were able to book the same resorts.  
They also argued that Mr and Mrs M were pressured into taking out the timeshare, they 
were not informed about any commission paid on the loan and the cancellation rights 
were not made clear (and were very limited). In addition, BPF didnt complete proper 
affordability checks before agreeing the loan. 
In response BPF said both the s.75 CCA claim and the s140A CCA claims were raised too 
late and out under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
Unhappy with BPFs response, the complaint was referred to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think BPF needed to do anything 
further. They thought that the claims under s.75 and s.140 CCA had been brought too 
late, so they didnt think BPF needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also 
didnt think there was sufficient information to show the loan was unaffordable. 
The representatives responded to explain why they didnt agree and thought the 
complaint had been brought in time. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell BPF to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. If 
I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. 
I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to 
concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
The claim under s.75 CCA
The late Mr M argued that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the 
membership to him and his wife when they bought it. But under section 9 of the LA, Mr M 
had to make that claim within six years of when he entered into the timeshare and credit 
agreements  which was in March 2009  because thats when he lost out having relied on 
false statements of fact. 
However, the claim was first raised with BPF in February 2019, that fell outside of the time 
limit set out in the LA. 
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under section 140A CCA, as its 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under section 140A CCA. 
And under section 9 of the LA, the claim needed to be made within six years of when the 
loan ended  which was in November 2010. But as the claim was made in February 2019, it 
was made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA. 
I note the late Mr Ms representatives have argued that s.32 LA applies. This allows for 
extensions due to fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake, to the point where this could 
have been discovered using reasonable diligence. However, on the facts of this case Im not 
persuaded the things being complained were withheld due to fraud, deliberate concealment 
or mistake. And in any event, I think they could have been uncovered by exercising 
reasonable diligence. So I dont think s.32 helps in this case as I still think the claims were 
raised too late.
So it follows that I dont think BPF has acted unfairly in declining either claim and I dont 
uphold this aspect of their complaint. 
Affordability of the loan
It has been argued that BPF didnt complete proper checks before agreeing this loan. Even if 
I agreed BPF didnt take the necessary steps before agreeing this loan, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the estate of Mr M has lost out before of this i.e. Ive not been provided with anything to show the loan was unaffordable for the late Mr M. So it follows I also dont 
uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
