DRN-3636074
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain about the service provided by Santander UK Plc during a product 
transfer. 
Mr K and Mrs K say as a result they had to take out a higher interest rate on their mortgage 
and so would like Santander UK Plc to honour the lower rate they could have taken.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I have considered the call Mr K and Mrs K had with Santander on 22 September 
2022. The advisor explains the options available to them. It is clear Mr K and Mrs K 
wished to apply for the lower rate of 0.99%, but to do this a further valuation of their 
property was needed. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the advisor to suggest 
a further valuation take place as the current valuation held by Santander wouldnt 
allow it to offer Mr K and Mrs K the rate they wanted. 
Mr K and Mrs K say they werent advised the rates could change and say they could 
have decided to go with the rate available at the time. During the call Santanders 
advisor explained that once the valuation was completed, he would contact them 
back and theyd have to deal with whatever rates were available at that time. He also 
explained the rate is only available on the day it is discussed so theyd need to wait 
for the valuation and then discuss the rates available on that day. There wasnt a way 
in which the advisor could pre book the rate for Mr K and Mrs K and Santanders 
advisor said if they wanted the rate at that time the only one it could offer was 1.18%. 
So I think with the information provided Mr K and Mrs K should reasonably have 
been aware that if the rate was only available on the day its discussed that it is likely 
to be subject to change. 
Santander say that the process for applying for a product transfer varies online and 
by phone. The process online is on a non-advised basis and though Mr K and Mrs K 
may have been able to lock in a rate online, this would not have factored in the 
higher valuation they wanted. I dont think it is unreasonable to have different 
processes especially considering the online process was likely to have been an 
automated one. 
Ive also considered if Santander should have let Mr K and Mrs K know that they 
could secure an offer online and continue with the valuation. There wasnt a 
requirement for Santander to do this and considering the conversation Mr K and   
Mrs K had with the advisor I think it was clear they wanted the valuation completed 
before finalising the rate. So in the circumstances I think the information provided by 
Santander was reasonable.
In order to uphold this complaint, I must be persuaded that Mr K and Mrs K would 
have done something different if they had been told they could secure the rate online 
and still apply for the valuation. Its possible but I cant say for certain and I cant 
apply hindsight. I say this as, it is clear that the rates subsequently increased but I 
have to look at it from the position of what Mr K and Mrs K would have thought 
without now knowing the rates would go up. 
Mr K and Mrs K were certain they wanted to go through the valuation process and 
Ive already explained that they were told the rates were only applicable that day, so 
they werent locked in. Ive also explained why I think they should have reasonably 
known that the rates could change so overall Im not persuaded that Mr K and Mrs K 
would have locked in the rates at the time, especially as at the time there was no way 
of knowing if the rates would increase. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr K and Mrs Ks frustrations, I dont think 
Santander acted unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman