DRN-2915089
The complaint
Mr G said PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him loans that he couldnt 
afford.
What happened
Mr Lender gave Mr G loans as follows:
Loan 
No:Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 02/10/2013 29/10/2013 1 £300.00 £405.00
2 29/10/2013 17/06/2014 1 £700.00 £910.00
3 28/09/2014 31/07/2015 6 £700.00 £326.66
4 21/10/2016 Outstanding 6 £700.00 £323.86
Mr G complained that he wasnt able to pay back his Mr Lender loans on time and that his 
income wasnt checked when he applied for the loans. He also complained that the interest 
rate was high. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel that hed seen enough to say it was unfair that Mr Lender had 
provided loans 1 and 4 to Mr G. But he felt that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been provided. 
Our adjudicator set out detailed instructions about the way he thought Mr Lender should 
settle the complaint. 
Mr Lender disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Ive summarised the following main points Mr Lender put forward:
There was a duration of around three months between repaying loan 2 and applying 
for loan 3 so the size of the loan 2 repayment doesnt automatically mean loan 3 was 
unaffordable.
loan 3 was different to loan 2 as it was payable over a number of months. The 
interest charged on each payment decreased along with the balance  leaving Mr G 
with more disposable income each time.
The highest repayment for loan 3 was 20% of Mr Gs net monthly income. The 
results of Mr Lenders expenditure assessment showed even after the highest 
repayment he still had sufficient disposable income to meet his monthly financial 
commitments.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh  
and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
Looking at loans 1 and 4, I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to 
give Mr G these loans. And as Mr G says he feels our adjudicators assessment is fair, 
I dont think that I need to say more about them.
It doesnt look to me as if Mr Lender has made any particular comment on our adjudicators 
proposal to uphold loan 2, but as it requested an ombudsman review, I've considered this 
loan and Ill set out my thoughts on it. Mr Lenders records show it relied on information showing that Mr Gs income was £1,600. 
Mr Lender noted in its affordability assessment that the repayment on this loan was 56.88% 
of Mr Gs take home pay. So I think Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayment of 
£910 that Mr G had to make to pay loan 2 was such a significant proportion of his spending 
money each month that in reality, this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
So Mr Lender shouldnt have provided it to Mr G. And for these reasons, Im upholding 
Mr Gs complaint about loan 2.
I agree with our adjudicator that its reasonable to infer that loan 3 wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr G. I say this because the unsustainability of loan 2 meant that 
Mr G was likely to need to borrow again in order to be able to make the repayment on loan 2 
and any subsequent loans. The short gap between Mr G paying loan 2 and taking out loan 3 
wasnt long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr G had put his finances in order 
during this period. 
I think Mr Lender needed to think more carefully than it seems to have done about Mr Gs 
payment history on loan 2. 
Although one of the loan features allowed Mr G to opt to make an interest only payment, to 
my mind, the fact that he chose this option was potentially an early warning sign that he 
might have a problem making the full loan repayment on the due date. 
I say this because doing this added to the overall cost of the loan and I dont think its likely 
that a borrower would choose to pay more for a loan if that extra cost could be avoided. 
And in the event, loan 2 was rolled over twice more - in December 2013 and January 2014. 
And Mr G went onto a repayment plan agreed with Mr Lender when he had a problem 
paying the loan by the revised due date. 
He finally paid the discounted amount Mr Lender accepted in settlement around 7 months 
later than the original repayment date.
I've taken into account that Mr Lender felt its affordability assessment showed that Mr G 
would have had more disposable income than before as the loan was due to be repaid in 
three instalments.
But given his payment history, I think it shouldve been clear to Mr Lender that what Mr G 
was saying about his financial situation appeared to be significantly at odds with what Mr 
Lender had seen of his circumstances during the eight months or so that hed been repaying 
loan 2.
And before agreeing to lend, I think Mr Lender shouldve made further enquiries to get a 
better understanding of Mr Gs financial situation to find out why he was asking to borrow a 
loan equal to the amount hed struggled to repay just three months earlier. I cant see that it 
did this so I cant fairly say that Mr Lenders lending decision was fair and reasonable in 
these particular circumstances.
I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr G missed his first instalment due on loan 3 and 
following this Mr Lender learned that he had been diagnosed with a serious illness. 
I dont have much information about Mr Gs condition, but I think his ill health and the 
problems it was causing Mr G is likely something Mr Lender could have discovered sooner if 
it had asked more searching questions and probed more deeply into the reasons why Mr G 
had found it so hard to make the repayments on loan 2. Did Mr Lender act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
I've thought about the way Mr Lender responded when Mr G contacted it to discuss his 
payment problems and, like our adjudicator, I think it dealt with Mr G during what was a 
difficult time for him in a way that seems fair and reasonable to me. 
Mr G has said hes happy with what our adjudicator said in his view. But I just wanted to 
mention also that Ive thought about his complaint about the high interest rate as it doesnt 
look like that was something our adjudicator specifically commented on. 
The loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr G had to 
actively engage in the loan application process when he applied for these loans. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr G was aware he was taking high cost loans on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to award any additional 
redress over and above what I've said below that Mr Lender should do to put things right. 
Overall, Im planning on upholding Mr Gs complaint about loans 2 and 3 and I hope that 
setting out my reasons at length will help Mr Lender to understand why.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to partly 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr G, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly if a relationship existed between 
his and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
So heres what Mr Lender needs to do.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what I have 
outlined below. 
If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balances on loans 2 and 3, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been repayments of the 
principal.
B. calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. If there is still an outstanding balance on loan 4, then the amounts calculated in "A" 
and B should be used to repay this. If this still leaves an outstanding balance, then 
Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G. Any surplus 
should be paid to Mr G. 
D. Remove any adverse entries from Mr Gs credit file for loans 2 and 3  and ask the 
debt purchaser to do the same if necessary. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. If Mr G asks 
Mr Lender for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, Mr Lender should 
provide this. 
My final decisionI partly uphold Mr Gs complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman