DRN-2522645
The complaint
Mr A complains about what happened when he tried to make his first manual payment onto 
his credit card with TSB Bank plc.
 
What happened
Mr A said hed made a balance transfer to a TSB credit card, to try to save money. But then
his first payment was returned. He said he contacted TSB, and it told him it would be in
touch to sort things out. But it didnt, and now it was just saying this was his fault, and asking
him to pay charges and interest.
Mr A said he lives on a modest income. Hed made this transfer to save money, and now it
was costing him more. He didnt think this was fair.
TSB said that it told Mr A, when he rang to set up a direct debt, that he needed to make a
manual payment to cover the first months payment to his card. The direct debit wouldnt be
set up in time to pay that. But although Mr A had tried to make this payment, he hadnt
included his 16-digit credit card number as the reference. TSB said without this, it couldnt
get the payment to the right place, so the money had been returned to Mr A.
TSB said it had no record of Mr A calling it about this. And it didnt think it had done anything
wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint at first. She said that Mr A had to include his
credit card number in the reference. TSB had provided clear instructions about that. But Mr
A didnt include this reference with his payment. That was why his payment was returned.
But Mr A said hed called TSB after that. So our investigator got Mr A to help identify the call,
and then asked TSB to send it to us.
Then our investigator changed her mind. She said shed listened to the call, and Mr A was
clearly concerned that his payment had been returned. Mr A was told someone would call
him back, but no one did. 
Our investigator thought if someone had been in touch with Mr A, then there wouldve been 
a different outcome. So she said that TSB should refund any interest and charges accrued 
on Mr As card, and should pay him £50 in compensation.
But TSB didnt agree. It accepted that there was no proof that TSB tried to call Mr A back,
but said that unless the call connected, that wouldnt show on TSBs systems.
TSB also said this was only a few days after lockdown had been announced and many of its
staff were working from home. It wasnt initially able to record its calls when that happened.
TSB said Mr A had been told on 5 March to make a manual payment to cover his first
payment due, as the direct debit wouldnt be in place in time. Although he did make the
payment, it was sent back to his account because he didnt give his 16-digit card number.
TSB said our investigator was asking it to pay compensation of £50 just because there was
no evidence that it called Mr A on 26 March. It felt an apology would be sufficient, given that
lockdown had just begun and it was doing its best to keep services as normal as possible.
Our investigator noted that TSB wasnt able to show us calls from Mr A until Mr A sent
details of his phone records, and still wasnt able to show it had called him back. She thought
it was likely there would be a footprint if a call was attempted.
Our investigator said she appreciated that when Mr A called TSB, it was a difficult time for
everyone, but she felt Mr A could have been given the benefit of the doubt as he was a new
customer, and did make a call to rectify the issue. But he incurred charges instead. Our
investigator said these charges had impacted Mr A, so an apology wouldnt be sufficient.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Mr A had just transferred a balance onto his TSB credit card, and needed to start 
making regular payments. He set up a direct debit, and tried to make the first 
payment manually.
Mr A made a mistake, and the payment didnt reach his card. He rang TSB about this 
on 26 March. Our investigator said that if TSB had called him back promptly, this 
wouldve saved Mr A fees and interest.
But Mr As card payment was due on 20 March. So the payment was already some 
days overdue by the time he rang TSB. His March statement had been issued, and it 
showed a late payment charge had already been applied.
So I think Mr A had already missed his payment when he asked TSB for help.
But it does look as if TSB did let Mr A down by not getting back in touch. TSB has 
said that theres no evidence of this, it just doesnt have a record of calls made at this 
time. But I note that Mr A has said from the start that he called TSB (and hes now 
been able to show us he made this call). And hes also said that TSB didnt ring back. 
So I think its likely that this is what happened.
If, as I think is likely, Mr A didnt get the call back that TSB offered, then I have to 
think about whats likely to have happened if TSB had been able to call Mr A back at 
the time. I think its likely that TSB wouldve shown Mr A some forbearance, in terms 
of the interest and charges on Mr As account. This was Mr As first payment onto his 
card. TSB has accepted that Mr A tried to make the payment, and the only reason it 
didnt reach the card in good time was because of a mistake. When he called TSB, 
he was only a few days late, and had acted promptly when he realised his payment 
was returned.
It looks as if, as a result of this mistake, Mr A has lost access to the interest free offer 
that he had. I think its likely that if TSB had been able to talk to Mr A straight away, it 
wouldve put this offer back on, and waived any interest charge or late payment fee. I 
think thats likely, because my experience has been that banks will usually offer this 
sort of forbearance to someone who tried to pay and has just made a mistake, and 
then addresses the problem promptly.So Ill ask TSB to do that now.
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, and would 
also provide fair compensation for the service failings, when TSB didnt call Mr A 
back. Because I think thats a fair way to make up for whats gone wrong in this case, 
I wont also ask TSB to pay compensation to Mr A.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said he wasnt a new TSB customer, he just hadnt used the credit card account for a 
while. He said he got a message to say the direct debit to pay his card had been set up, and 
he initially thought that was why the money from his manual payment had gone back into his 
account. And Mr A said that the remedy would mean very little to TSB, but a lot to him.
TSB wrote to say it didnt agree with my proposed resolution. It repeated a number of points 
in my provisional decision, including that Mr A had already missed the payment deadline by 
the time he contacted TSB. It sent his statements for reference. 
TSB said that it was very sorry that Mr A had lost his 0% interest offer on his balance 
transfer, but it would only consider reinstating this if it had been lost as the result of a TSB 
error. And TSB said that this was Mr As mistake. It set out what it had done to tell him how 
to make a payment. 
TSB said it still felt an apology would be sufficient for it not calling Mr A back when it agreed 
to do this. It said it was working as hard as it could to keep services as normal as possible 
during the current difficult circumstances. 
TSB wanted me to reconsider. 
I didnt say that TSB should put Mr As interest free offer back on his card because it was 
responsible for the missed payment, or because I otherwise thought that TSB was in some 
way to blame for the missing payment. I think that Mr A made a mistake. 
But in a number of other cases Ive seen, involving TSB, it has been willing to put the interest 
free offer back on to a credit card account, as a gesture of goodwill, in what I think are 
comparable circumstances. So I dont think TSB only considers reinstating the interest free 
offer when it makes a mistake. 
And I still think that if Mr A had been able to speak to TSB when he rang, or if it had been 
able to call him back at that time, then Mr As interest free offer wouldve been reinstated at 
the time. Particularly given what Mr A has now told us about why this mistake wasnt 
discovered until his statement was issued. 
I dont think its appropriate here to criticise the service that TSB provided in the earliest 
stages of the pandemic. I accept what it has said about some short-term disruption to its 
service affecting this case. But its not Mr As fault that the pandemic prevented TSB from 
providing its normal levels of service in this instance, and it didnt manage to call him back. I dont think he should miss out on the gesture of goodwill that my experience suggests TSB 
would otherwise have made at that time, just because of this. 
So I still think its fair and reasonable to ask TSB to reinstate Mr As interest free offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must reinstate Mr As interest free offer on his credit 
card, as it was before his March payment was missed, to refund £12 he was charged as a 
late payment fee, and to refund any interest it has charged on Mr As card because his 
interest free offer appears to have been removed.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman