DRN-3198117
The complaint
Miss M feels that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to her account.
What happened
Miss M complained to Barclays about charges and interest for emergency borrowing which 
were applied to her account. She says the charges were too high, and that they contributed 
to her financial difficulties.
Barclays looked at Miss Ms complaint, it felt the charges applied to her account were fair. 
Miss M remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ms concerns, she explained that she didnt think 
Barclays had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Miss Ms account, and that she felt 
Barclays had responded appropriately to Miss Ms financial difficulties. Miss M disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate that Miss Ms 
complaint is about an emergency borrowing facility but this operated in the same way as an 
overdraft, so I think the same guidance and approach applies.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint about 
the charges applied to her account. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged Miss M were fair and reasonable. I appreciate that 
Miss M feels the charges for her emergency borrowing facility were too high in relation to 
how much she had borrowed, but ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. So this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Miss M if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges 
to her account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing 
financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt 
treat Miss M fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Barclays did treat Miss M unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I can see that she went into  and then over  her emergency 
borrowing facility in November 2019. When she didnt repay this outstanding balance, 
Barclays wrote to her to tell her she was over her limit and would be incurring charges, in 
this letter Barclays also asked her to get in touch if she needed help with her finances. 
Barclays sent several of these letters over the next few months, and when Miss M didnt get 
in touch or pay anything into her account Barclays took action to stop any more charges 
from being applied to her account.  
This is the kind of action we would expect a bank to take in these circumstances  firstly 
offering assistance, and then stepping in to take proactive action to stop the account from 
deteriorating further  so I dont think Barclays acted unfairly or that it needs to refund to 
Miss M any of the charges that it applied to her account.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss M, but Im satisfied that Barclays 
hasnt treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman