DRN-4053638
The complaint
Ms P complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) avoided her commercial motor insurance 
policy and declined cover for a claim following an accident.     
Any reference to Zurich includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms P was involved in a collision with another vehicle in February 2022. She says the third-
party driver was at fault and had acted aggressively, so she didnt stop at the scene of the 
accident. She subsequently reported the incident to the police and to Zurich.
Zurich says Ms Ps policy was for a commercial van. During the sales process she was 
asked to confirm that the insured vehicle wasnt a campervan. It says the police have said 
the vehicle is a campervan, which Ms P confirmed when interviewed about the accident. 
Zurich says it wouldnt have offered cover if Ms P had told it the vehicle was a campervan. It 
says the third-party made a claim against Ms Ps policy. It decided to settle the claim with the 
third-party as is its right under the policy terms. It didnt think the evidence supported Ms P 
not being at fault, and so acted to minimise the cost of the claim. Zurich says it acted 
appropriately to avoid the policy and refuse Ms Ps claim for her vehicle damage. 
Ms P didnt think this was fair. She says the vehicle hadnt yet been converted into a 
campervan, so she didnt answer Zurichs questions incorrectly. She says nothing has been 
fixed to the body of the vehicle and it didnt meet the DVLAs criteria for registration as a 
campervan. Zurich didnt change its decision, so Ms P referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says Ms P misrepresented the information 
she gave to Zurich by not disclosing the modifications made to her vehicle. She says the 
policy has an exclusion for vehicles modified or altered in anyway. Because of this she 
thought it had acted fairly, under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA), to avoid the policy and decline to cover the damage to Ms Ps vehicle. 
Ms P didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call recording when Ms P first contacted Zurich. She explains shes been 
asked to make contact. The agent confirms this is because a claim has been made via the 
third partys insurer, in relation to the accident that occurred in February 2022. Ms P says the 
other driver was at fault having changed lanes at speed, resulting in the collision. She also 
says the other driver appeared to have acted in a state of road rage. 
In its complaint response Zurich says an independent witness who saw the accident, 
considered Ms P was at fault. It says that based on the evidence it decided to settle the 
claim with the third-party to keep solicitors costs to a minimum and avoid the risk of the 
third-party entering into a credit hire agreement with the associated costs. 
Ive read the police report from the interview that took place with Ms P. As well as the email 
the police officer dealing with the incident sent to Zurich. In this he says Ms P drove, 180 
degrees around a roundabout in the outside lane, colliding with a vehicle which was correctly 
exiting the roundabout, so in my view she is clearly at fault.   
Ms Ps policy terms explain that Zurich is entitled to take over and either defend or settle any 
claim made against its policy. This is a common term found in most insurance policies. It 
effectively allows the insurer to decide how best to deal with any given claim. We dont think 
this is unreasonable as the insurer is responsible for paying the cost of the claim. 
This doesnt mean an insurer can act however it wants. We still expect it to treat its customer 
fairly. In this case there is an independent witness, and a police officer that both say Ms P 
was at fault. Based on this evidence I dont think Zurich acted unreasonably in deciding to 
settle the claim with the third-party. 
Zurich explains that it settled the claim on a without prejudice basis. This means it hasnt 
prejudiced Ms Ps position should she wish to pursue the matter through a court. It says it 
will mark the claim as non-fault if she takes the matter to court and is successful. I think its 
fair that Ms P retains the option to take the matter to court. But I dont think its been shown 
that Zurich acted unfairly in settling the claim in the way it did.  
Ive thought about whether Zurichs decision was fair, to avoid Ms Ps policy and refuse her 
claim for damage to her vehicle. 
We asked it to provide the questions Ms P was asked when she purchased her policy online. 
Zurich has sent screenshots to show this information. This shows Ms P was asked the 
following:
I confirm the vehicle
Is NOT a Horsebox, Lorry, Minibus, Motor Caravan, Motor Home, Campervan, Recovery 
Vehicle or a Tipper.
Under this section it says, I consider all the above statements are correct. There is 
checkbox that Zurich says Ms P must have completed in order for the application to proceed.
A screenshot Zurich has provided from the Statement of Fact says:
Your policy has been issued on the basis of you agreeing to the Acceptance Criteria made 
available prior to purchase. You must answer all questions honestly and to the best of your 
knowledge and belief. If you dont, your policy may be cancelled, or treated as if it never 
existed, or your claim rejected or not fully paid.   
I think the question asked and the information provided to Ms P during the application 
process was clear. Zurich confirmed it wouldnt insure a campervan. By checking the box Ms 
P confirmed her vehicle wasnt one of the vehicles Zurich wouldnt provide cover for. 
I can see the statement of fact that was sent to Ms P also says, You have declared that the 
vehicle: is not aCampervan. This is a commercial policy so the relevant law here is The Insurance Act 2015. This 
requires Ms P to make a fair presentation of the risk to her insurer before the contract of 
insurance is entered into. 
Ms P says that her vehicle is registered as a van. She points to the DVLA requirements for 
when a vehicle should be re-registered as a motor caravan, which she doesnt think apply 
here. The DVLA says it will consider changing the body classification to motor caravan if the 
vehicles exterior is distinguishable as a motor caravan in traffic. Ms P says her van isnt. She 
says at the time the policy was agreed it had two foldable loungers, a freestanding water 
pedestal, and a zipped storage compartment in the rear of the van. But Ms P says none of 
this is fixed to the body of the vehicle. 
I asked Zurich to respond to Ms Ps comments. It said Ms P had herself declared that the 
vehicle is a self-converted campervan and confirmed her intention to complete a full 
conversion on it. It says she confirmed this point during a police interview, and the police 
officers own opinion was that the vehicle was a campervan. Zurich says whilst it accepts 
some of the modifications might not be permanently fitted/fixed  the vehicle was being used 
as a campervan. It says this means it has all the associated ratings and risk factors for an 
insurer that such a vehicle entails.
In its response Zurich says it has no doubt that Ms P was using the vehicle in the capacity of 
a campervan. It says she was aware of this when applying for insurance cover. 
Unlike consumer policies, where it is for the insurer to ask the right questions of the
consumer, commercial policyholders and indeed applicants must volunteer information 
they have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a
policy. This means they must disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
As mentioned, during the online application Ms P checked a box that says her vehicle isnt a 
campervan. I acknowledge the information she provided from the DVLAs website about 
vehicle classification. But its for Zurich to decide what risks it intends to cover. Its not for me 
or indeed Ms P to determine what risks any insurer wishes to cover or wishes not to cover. 
Insurers are fully entitled to decide this themselves based on their own commercial 
discretion and the varying regulations of the Financial Conduct Authority. Zurich made it 
clear it wouldnt provide cover for campervans, which is how Ms Ps van was being used. 
Considering the confirmation Ms P was asked to provide that her vehicle wasnt a 
campervan - I dont think its reasonable or indeed a fair presentation for Ms P not to 
declare she intended using the van as a camper. In not doing so Ms P failed to provide a fair 
presentation of the risk as required by her under the Insurance Act 2015. She may not have 
thought the DVLA would classify her vehicle as a campervan, but she acknowledges this is 
how it was being used. Making a fair presentation of the risk should reasonably therefore 
have included confirmation that the vehicle was to be used as a campervan.
In cases like these where the risk is not acceptable to the insurer, the 2015 Act gives the
insurer remedies as follows:
if it was deliberate or reckless the insurer can avoid the policy and refuse all claims 
and it doesnt have to return the premiumsif the qualifying breach was neither deliberate or reckless and the insurer wouldnt 
have provided the insurance, it may avoid the contract and refuse any claims, but it 
must return the premiums; (unless the non-disclosure was deliberate or reckless)
if the insurer would still have provided the insurance but on different terms (other 
than the premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those 
terms; and
if the insurer would have charged a higher premium, it may take a proportionate 
approach to any claims.
Zurich has retained Ms Ps premium, meaning it considers she acted deliberately or 
recklessly when failing to provide a fair presentation of the risk. I dont think Zurich acted 
unreasonably here. Ms P knew she was going to use the vehicle as a campervan when she 
applied for the policy. She should reasonably have informed Zurich of this by not checking 
the box indicating the vehicle was intended to be used as a campervan. Or otherwise 
informing Zurich of this, given the clear message that campervans werent an acceptable risk 
for cover. 
I understand that Ms P will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Zurich did 
anything wrong. Its because of this that I cant fairly ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman