DRN-2512208
The complaint
Mr M complains that he hasnt receive a refund of interest from Blemain Finance Limited 
(Blemain).
What happened
Mr M had a secured loan with Blemain, which he redeemed some years ago.
Blemain wrote to Mr M in February 2020 advising theyd be refunding interest applied 
to the loan. 
Blemain confirmed theyd transfer £49.54 to the account hed used to make the 
payments towards the loan. 
Mr M has confirmed hed switched his account from his previous bank (Bank A) 
shortly before Blemain had completed the transfer, and so Blemain had sent the 
refund to a closed account.
Mr M said he hadnt received the payment, and Bank A had been unable to trace it.
Blemain provided Mr M with a remittance slip for the payment, which showed details 
of the transfer. 
Mr M gave this to Bank A, however he said Bank A still couldnt locate the funds 
(although Bank A is still looking into the matter). 
Blemain completed a BACS trace, which confirmed the amount had left their account 
and hadnt bounced back or been recredited. So, there wasnt anything further they 
could do. Mr M disagreed and referred a complaint to us.
An investigator explained the evidence available confirmed Blemain were no longer in 
possession of the funds and there was nothing further they could do to trace them. Mr M 
disagreed, and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a straight forward complaint  has Blemain done what it should have in making the 
refund to Mr M?
Blemain has provided evidence which shows the refund was made to an account 
Mr M held. 
Theres no dispute that the details of that account (sort code or account number) 
were correct. 
Theres no evidence the money was returned to Blemain.
A BACS trace also confirms Blemain made the refund. 
All the evidence demonstrates that Blemain made a refund payment of £49.54 in 
February 2020. 
Im satisfied Blemain has acted reasonably and made the refund to Mr M it said it 
would. 
Im satisfied Blemain is no longer in possession of the funds as theres no evidence 
Bank A returned the money.
Im not asking Blemain to do anything further. 
Mr M may wish to confirm with Bank A its final position and then decide what steps he takes 
next, such as inviting us to look into what Bank A has done. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman