DRN-4173699
Complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. 
Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement were unaffordable. 
Background
In October 2019, Moneybarn provided Mr M with finance for a used van. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £21,600.00. Mr M paid a deposit of £4,000.72 and took out a conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £17,599.28. The loan had interest 
charges of £14,264.85. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £31,864.85 
(excluding Mr Ms deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £540.07.
Mr M complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ms complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr M provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr M which had shown Mr M hadnt had 
obvious difficulties with credit such as defaults or county court judgments against him. Mr M 
did have some outstanding credit balances. But when the amount owing plus a reasonable 
amount for Mr Ms living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly 
payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr M says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr M and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that unlike our adjudicator, Im not entirely persuaded that the 
checks Moneybarn carried out did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was 
reasonable to rely on an estimate of Mr Ms living costs given the amount being borrowed 
and the amount of the monthly payment Mr M had to make. But I dont think that obtaining 
further information on Mr Ms actual living costs would have made a difference to 
Moneybarns decision to lend. 
I say this because the information Mr M has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments 
were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ms actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. Or more likely that his circumstances 
changed a few months after he entered into the conditional sale agreement. But the key here 
is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And I dont think that Moneybarn could possibly be expected to 
have known that this would happen  especially bearing in mind the unprecedent events and 
the ongoing effects of what would happen a few months after Mr M took his agreement out. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not necessarily persuaded 
that Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr M did 
go far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont 
have stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with 
him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr M. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman