DRN-3552515
The complaint
Ms N complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) failed to allocate the full 
£20,000 she deposited to her Individual Savings Account (ISA) allowance for 2019/2020. 
Shes also unhappy she was unable to use all of her ISA allowance for the financial year 
2020/2021. 
What happened
In April 2020, I understand Ms N made deposits (£5,000, £15,000 and £5,000) to subscribe 
to a stocks and shares ISA with Halifax. She wanted to deposit £20,000 prior to the deadline 
on 5 April 2020. However, she says she wanted to utilise the full allowance for 2020/2021 
and was blocked from doing so.
Ms N and her representative visited branch and called Halifax to complain the deposits 
hadnt been processed correctly. Halifax processed the first deposit of £5,000 correctly but 
the rest had been put in a cash management account. On 15 April 2020, Halifax transferred 
funds from the cash management account to the ISA but it was put towards her allowance 
for 2020/2021.
Ms N complained because she says she deposited £15,000 prior to the deadline and it 
should fall under the previous years allowance. Halifax responded to the complaint on 2 July 
2020. They accepted there was an error with processing the deposits on 3 April caused by a 
computer glitch. They offered £100 in full and final settlement of the complaint. Also, they 
said they were in the process of restoring the position of the account had the error not 
occurred.
Ms N remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The Investigator agreed Halifax had 
made an error caused by the computer glitch. He said they had already put the account back 
to how it would have been had the error not occurred and offered £100 to resolve the 
complaint. He also thought they should pay Ms N any financial loss arising from when she 
deposited £5,000 on 15 April 2020 and when the account was rectified in July 2020.
On 13 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Halifax have already accepted that a computer glitch meant Ms Ns deposits werent
processed correctly. From what Ive seen, I agree that something went wrong here 
and Ms N was frustrated. The representative said none of the branch knew there had 
been a computer glitch and they should make sure theyve notified the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
I can understand it would have been helpful to let the branch know, but this isnt 
sufficient for me to doubt Halifaxs explanation that there was a glitch. I can also see 
Halifax moved the funds into Ms Ns cash management account the next working 
day. This meant the funds were safe and available. Halifax also corrected the 
position of the account because £15,000 was allocated to Ms Ns ISA allowance for 
the year 2019/2020. Therefore, Ms N was able to use her full ISA allowance of 
£20,000. This was made up of the £15,000 and also £5,000 from the initial deposits 
which had been unaffected by the glitch and correctly subscribed on 3 April 2020.
However, it doesnt seem they corrected the position until 1 July 2020. This is based 
on the account activity, the telephone notes Ive seen from April 2020 and the 
complaint response dated 2 July 2020. This meant the allowance for the year 
2020/2021 was incorrectly showing as fully subscribed up until 1 July 2020.
Prior to this, the representative called to correct the position in April 2020. Ms N 
made a separate deposit to the ISA on 15 April 2020 and had a further £5,000 
available in the cash management account. Im content its likely she would have 
invested this within the ISA wrapper on 15 April 2020 if it hadnt been showing as 
fully subscribed. She may have suffered a financial loss as a result of not being able 
to invest the funds sooner.
Halifax have said Ms N hasnt suffered a financial loss because she could have 
invested outside of the ISA pending a resolution to the complaint. However, I dont 
agree because Ms N should have had the correct allowance available in order to 
make investment decisions within the ISA wrapper and Im satisfied from the 
evidence that this was her intention. Ill come back to how things should be put right 
below.
ISA allowance for 2020/2021
I appreciate Ms Ns representative feels very strongly that Ms N only subscribed 
£15,000 in total for the financial year 2020/2021 and she was prevented from 
investing a further £5,000 within the ISA wrapper. He has provided me with bank 
statements from Ms Ns savings account which show the payments made to Halifax 
across the financial year. He also says Halifax refunded £5,000 which isnt something 
which had previously been commented on.
Halifax have provided me with screenshots containing transaction information for Ms 
Ns cash management account and ISA.
The ISA account shows a subscription of £5,000 on 3 April 2020. This was correctly
allocated to Ms Ns 2019/2020 ISA allowance. However, this sum was withdrawn on 
9 April 2020. Ms Ns representative says this was a refund as they had tried to put in 
too much on 3 April 2020. I have thought about whats been said and its not clear 
why Halifax would have refunded the only money which had actually been correctly 
subscribed to the ISA at this time rather than the amount held in the cash 
management account. Theres no reference to a refund in the final response letter or 
information provided by Halifax. Halifax have said it was withdrawn by Ms N and this 
seems to be reflected in the screenshots provided.
After the cash withdrawal, there was a subscription of £5,000 on 15 April 2020 and 1 
July 2020. The subscription in July 2020 was taken from money in the cash 
management account. Additionally, there was a subscription of £2,000 in December 
2020 and £8,000 in March 2021. This is a total of £20,000 paid into Ms Ns ISA. 
Therefore, the full amount was subscribed and available to invest for the year 
2020/2021.
In respect of putting things right, I said: 
There was a computer glitch which meant the funds deposited on 5 April 2020 
werent allocated correctly to ISA allowance for 2019/2020. This meant Ms Ns ISA allowance for 2020/2021 was showing as fully subscribed until it was corrected on 1 
July 2020. In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim 
should be to put Ms N as close to the position she would probably now be in if she 
had been able to invest the £5,000 inside her ISA wrapper on 15 April 2020.
It is not possible to say precisely what she would have invested in. Id need to be
reasonably clear about the investment decisions Ms N planned to make at the time 
she was prevented from investing inside her ISA wrapper. The representative has 
told us Ms N was prevented from carrying out a planned investment strategy and has 
outlined the gains he believes shes missed out on. However, a planned investment 
strategy wasnt discussed when the complaint was first referred to us and there isnt 
evidence to demonstrate the plans at the time Ms N was experiencing the problem
I then went on to set out exactly what I thought would be fair and reasonable in respect of 
putting things right. I gave both parties the opportunity to comment and provide further 
evidence. 
Ms Ns response 
Ms Ns representative didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he said: 
Halifax kept insisting (up until 1 July 2020) that the ISA allowance was correct. It was 
only when Ms N produced bank statements that they accepted it and until then the 
information had been used to cover up the problem. 
Ms N had a planned investment strategy for retirement, and it was mentioned to the 
Investigator on a number of occasions. He asked me to listen to the phone calls he 
had with our service and he sent through a copy of the actual assets that were 
invested in. Moreover, information was provided about the income he said had been 
lost. 
The investment strategy for growth was classed as active rebalancing which meant 
higher growth could be achieved by selling high and buying low. The overall aim for 
long term wealth creation was time, rebalancing, and regular savings. 
He said the funds bought were all Exchange Traded Funds (safe and trusted) not 
Enterprise Trade Funds. 
He said that Ms N invested £22,000 into premium bonds at the same time. This 
showed she had a balanced portfolio for risk and return. He said the portfolio was 
made up entirely in all world markets and had limited UK exposure. The Modern 
Portfolio Theory was used to maximize returns. Its currently giving a healthy 17% tax 
free return.
Ms N, at age 42 and based on a retirement age of 66, wanted to take a higher risk to 
obtain a maximum return. The investment strategy was to capitalize on a broad 
range of indices available on the world markets. The representative set out his 
experience in financial planning. 
Halifax used every possible means to discredit this complaint and their response to 
this complaint was made by a group of people who knowingly supplied misleading 
information. They should be made accountable for their actions. 
Halifaxs response Halifax also didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary, they said: 
There is no evidence to support that there was an investment strategy whereby Ms N 
had intended to invest a further £5,000 on 15 April 2020. 
Ms N instructed a cash withdrawal of £5,000 from her ISA in the days prior to 15 April 
2020 and this would not demonstrate that it was her intention to imminently invest 
that sum within the ISA. 
Ms N did contact Halifax on 15 April 2020 to reinstate those funds to the ISA which 
would indicate there was perhaps some error on the customers part in withdrawing 
that sum initially. 
Ms N went ahead and credited her ISA with £5,000 on 15 April 2020 and invested 
those funds immediately. There is nothing to suggest a further investment of another 
£5,000 had been planned and indeed when the £15,000 was transferred to Ms Ns 
ISA from her cash management account the following day, Ms N invested less than 
half this amount. Again, none of which supports the apparent strategy that is now 
being claimed was prevented. 
They positioned the redress fairly with the original offer for the confusion their 
technical team had caused. 
As both parties have had the opportunity to respond and provide further evidence, Ive 
proceeded with my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Ive fully considered what Halifax have said. I understand funds were withdrawn and Ms N 
didnt actually invest all of the funds available in her ISA on 15 July 2020. She only invested 
around approximately half of the amount available.  However, she didnt have the full amount 
she planned to invest available and this means we dont know exactly what she would have 
done had no error occurred. Im also mindful that at this time Ms N was still trying to resolve 
her complaint about her ISA allowance.
 
Its not possible to say with absolute certainty what would have happened, but I do need to 
determine what she was more likely to do. Therefore, Ive considered what Ms N has told us 
about her plans to invest. Although I cant be certain of the investment strategy planned out, 
she could have invested the full amount as she says was intended had the error not 
occurred. And Im content  more likely than not  its what she would have done. 
I do understand what Ms Ns representative has said about her attitude to risk and the 
evidence he has presented to our service. Ive reviewed all the evidence provided and Ive 
listened to the calls. However, it has been submitted with the benefit of hindsight. Therefore, 
my conclusion hasnt changed  its too speculative to determine exactly what Ms N would 
have invested in. Ive also noted the representatives comment about the type of fund. Bearing everything in mind, Im content the conclusion reached in my provisional decision is 
a fair and reasonable one.
 
Putting things right
As a result of the above, Im also content how I said Halifax should put things right remains 
fair and reasonable. Therefore, to compensate Ms N fairly, Halifax must:
Compare the performance of the £5,000 held within Ms Ns cash management 
account with that of the benchmark shown below and pay the difference 
between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value 
is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Halifax should also pay interest as set out below. The applicable payment should 
be put into Ms Ns ISA by way of restitution as it represents growth inside the ISA 
wrapper.
Pay Ms N £100 for distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect 
ISA allowance showing.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
NameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
£5,000 of Still exists For half the 15 April 1 July 2020 8% simple per
Ms N's ISA and liquid investment: 2020 (when (when the year from final
FTSE UK Ms N correction decision to
Private should have was made, settlement (if
Investors been able and Ms N not settled
Income Total to invest) was able to within 28 days
Return Index; invest) of the
for the other business
half: average receiving the
rate from fixed complainant's
rate bonds acceptance)
Actual value
The performance of the £5,000 in Ms Ns cash management account at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the £5,000 would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms N wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital. I understand this 
because her representative has told us the investments she did make were in 
passive Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs). These represented a lower risk to Ms Ns capital. Also, the stocks and shares ISA by its nature was intended for capital 
growth.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Ms N into that position. It does not mean 
that Ms N would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Ms N could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Halifax 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint, and Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman