DRN-3633366
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with Bs decision to reject a legal expenses insurance claim.
What happened
Mr N holds a home insurance policy which includes legal expenses cover. His son entered 
into a tenancy agreement with a landlord and became involved in a dispute concerning the 
contents that he believed should have been within the property but had allegedly been 
removed.
Mr N made a claim under his policy, but LV declined cover as in its view;
the policy didnt cover the claim against the landlord. 
the property at the heart of the dispute wasnt the dwelling the policy covered.
In any case, the claim didnt enjoy a reasonable chance of winning.
Mr N disagreed as he believed the claim should be covered under the contract disputes 
section of the policy. He says the landlord/agent induced his son to enter a contract by 
misrepresentation and the dispute is about a contract to buy or hire a service. His belief is 
that Tenancy Agreements are included within any definitions of Goods and Services.
Our investigator explained why he didnt think LV needed to do anything more. He said a 
prospects of success assessment by solicitors instructed by LV was standard practice in the 
industry, and we wouldnt expect a claim to be covered if its determined that costs are 
unlikely to recovered.
On the main issue of which section of the policy was the correct one to consider the matter 
under, the investigator said LV acted fairly in relying on the solicitors advice that the claim 
didnt fall under the contract disputes section. He didnt think there were any factual errors or 
misjudgement of the circumstances the solicitors had based their legal expert view on. And 
in any case, even if the tenancy agreement fell under the contract disputes section, the 
panel solicitors had clearly explained why it wouldnt enjoy prospects of success, a 
requirement for a claim to proceed or continue.
Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint. The focus of the 
dispute from Mr Ns perspective is that the tenancy agreement falls within cover. And if LV 
intended to exclude tenancy agreements from this then it should have specified this in the 
policy. Mr N has provided several examples of policy wordings from other insurers that do 
exclude tenancies and leases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basis of the relationship between Mr N and LV is the contract of insurance. There are 
two insured events that are potentially in play: Protection of Property and Contract Disputes. 
Under the Protection of Property section, its clear that the policy wording refers specifically 
to your home. Home is defined as the dwelling on the schedule and as this isnt the 
property at the heart of the sons dispute with his landlord Im satisfied LV acted fairly in 
relying on the advice of solicitors that this part didnt cover Mr Ns claim.
Under Contract Disputes the policy covers Pursuing a claim directly resulting from a 
breach of your contract to buy or hire goods or services for your private use.  If I accepted 
that a tenancy agreement fell under this section, then any claim must still have prospects of 
success. The policy has a list of general exceptions which says that LV will not pay any 
legal expenses for a list of circumstances, including where at any time, your claim does not 
have a reasonable chance of success. (my emphasis) This is further defined in the policy 
as more than a 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive outcome (including 
recovering the amount of money at stake; obtaining an outcome which best serves your 
interest).
The panel solicitors wrote to Mr N explaining why the claim didnt have a reasonable chance 
of success, even if it was covered under a section of the policy. It was explained that the 
dispute arose because his son, on moving into the property found it not to be let as seen, 
there being some contents missing from when it was viewed. The solicitors explained any 
likely action would be for misrepresentation if it can be shown the Agents had made an 
untrue statement of fact to induce the son to enter the contract. But the written terms of the 
Agreement differed from what the son alleged he was told as its written into the Agreement; 
Any specific furniture items requested and agreed: No.
Taking all the information into account the solicitors thought a court was unlikely to rule that 
a misrepresentation had occurred. And so, didnt believe there were prospects of success 
but Mr N could raise the matter with the Property Ombudsman.
Insurance Companies arent legal experts and so when exercising decisions about claim 
coverage for legal expenses wed expect insurers to obtain advice from suitably qualified 
experts. Here LV has done just that by engaging panel solicitors to assess the claim and its 
legal prospects. Prospects of Success terms are common in legal expenses policies. They 
mean insurers dont have to meet costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful or where 
the costs are too high compared to the value of the claim. I dont think this is unfair. Court 
action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to pay the costs of a 
court case if advised its unlikely to succeed and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an 
insurer to do so. 
 Im satisfied that it was fair for LV to rely on the advice from the panel solicitors and on the 
prospects of success assessment, which is an aside from the relevant section of cover, Im 
not persuaded the assessment was obviously wrong. Mr N is at liberty to obtain his own 
legal opinion and provide same to LV on receipt of which Id expect LV to consider the 
contents. 
Turning to the contract dispute section and whether that covers a tenancy agreement, Im 
not persuaded the advice the panel solicitors gave LV was obviously wrong.  They have 
reasoned why in their view it doesnt capture a tenancy agreement as buying goods or 
services principally because there is other legislation governing Landlords and Tenants and 
property is neither a good nor service. This is a legal question and LV has acted on the 
advice of solicitors. I appreciate the references Mr N has provided but hes not supported by 
any legal opinion. Should he obtain such an opinion he can provide same to LV and I would 
expect it to consider the opinion. However, as mentioned already, even if Mr N gets over that 
hurdle hes still not covered because the claim he wishes to bring doesnt enjoy a reasonable 
chance of winning. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman