DRN-3761894
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked his account access.
What happened
Mr T says HSBC froze his accounts for about three months without reason. He says he was 
told in June 2021 that documents were required which he provided but says HSBC says the 
document was not clear. Mr T says he couldnt pay a creditor which meant he was in breach 
of a contract and liable to pay the creditor £120,000. He says HSBC promised to pay him 
£10,000 if it didnt call him back and told him he would be paid £1,000 a day compensation. 
Mr T would like £2,000 for his telephone call costs, £11,250 for lost earnings and £120,000 
for the contract breach. He says HSBC has accepted liability for what took place.
HSBC says it had sent Mr T a number of letters about his account which became dormant 
and says it required identity documents in respect of the new accounts Mr T opened. It 
accepts it didnt dealt with this issue as it should and has apologised. It has also paid £350 
compensation.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the compensation fair and reasonable and didnt think there any evidence of the call 
costs or the loss of earnings. The investigator didnt think in summary the compensation Mr 
T requested was justified.
Mr T doesnt accept that view has provided a letter from a lawyer setting out the damages 
due to the contract breach and has provided an unsigned copy of the contract. He says he 
cant provide evidence of the £2,000 call costs and says he hasnt paid the £120,000 but is 
liable for it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at HSBCs records and can see that it wrote to Mr T over some years 
asking about his account and telling him it would become dormant. And I think that HSBC 
like all banks, as regulatory duties to know its customers. So, I dont think HSBC acted 
unfairly by asking Mr T in these circumstances for certain documents even if the original 
account was no longer dormant. I accept such requests can be onerous and accept that Mr 
T did not reside in the United Kingdom which would have caused additional difficulties. Im 
satisfied that there inevitably would have been some inconvenience caused to Mr T by the 
account block and checks HSBC was required to carry out.
There is no dispute here that HSBC accepts it didnt deal with the removal of the blocks as it 
should have and doesnt appear to have communicated with Mr T as it ought to have done 
so. I have made clear that I think there would have been some inconvenience to Mr T in any 
event. But Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for what took place and paid £350 
compensation.
The only real decision for me to make in the circumstances of this complaint is the level of 
compensation. Im satisfied that Mr T would have had to have made some calls to HSBC 
regardless of how long the block was in place for. But I cant be sure how much the 
additional calls cost as Mr T has been unable to provide any evidence of them. I am not sure 
why Mr T couldnt have provided, for example, his banks statements to show the cost or ask 
his telephone provider for his bill. 
I appreciate that Mr T has provided an unsigned contract which contains a clause about 
damages. I dont think the contract is dated and appears to be heavily redacted. I cant be 
sure about its validity in those circumstances or what it refers to. And in any event, I cant 
fairly hold HSBC responsible for any business losses or liability for any breach of contract in 
those circumstances. I dont think it clear why the lawyer acting on behalf of the creditor 
hasnt tried to enforce the contract or made contact with Mr T until well over a year after he 
says it was breached due to HSBCs actions.
I also appreciate Mr T says that he was promised damages by HSBC. I have not seen 
evidence of such a promise on HSBCs records and think it highly unlikely that it would have 
agreed to pay such damages in the circumstances of this complaint and without carrying out 
a full investigation.
Overall, I accept that HSBC didnt deal with the account block removal as it ought to have 
and should have communicated what was taking place more appropriately with Mr T. Im 
satisfied there would have been some delay in Mr T having account access in any event and 
so some inconvenience. But Im satisfied that the compensation of £350 is fair and 
reasonable and fairly compensates Mr T for the additional inconvenience he was caused. I 
cant be sure about the losses and liabilities Mr T says he has incurred and so cant fairly 
order HSBC repay the amount he would like. I find it would be for a court in any event to 
decide if there was a breach of a contract.
I accept Mr T will be disappointed by my decision but find this now brings an end to what we 
in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman