DRN-1779616
 
The complaint
X says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to them.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan MYJAR provided to X in April 2017. The loan 
was for £275 and was repaid over three monthly instalments of £145.95.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Xs complaint and thought MYJARs checks for the loans went 
far enough. X disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure X 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Xs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
X disagreed with the adjudicators view because they thought MYJAR should have been 
aware that they were struggling financially and had to enter a repayment plan with MYJAR 
as they couldnt afford to repay the loan. So, it shouldnt have lent to them.
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked X about their employment status and they confirmed they 
were employed and had a monthly income of £3,000. MYJAR also checked Xs normal 
monthly living costs. X declared these as £856 per month. MYJAR says it also searched Xs 
credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse 
entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan 
was taken out. 
As this was the first loan X had borrowed from MYJAR, they were very early on in their 
lending relationship with it. And even though they had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information they declared 
to MYJAR. And there wasnt anything in the information X provided at the time which would 
have given MYJAR cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to have relied 
on what X gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the loan went 
far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information X declared to MYJAR at the time of the loan may not have been an accurate 
reflection of their financial circumstances, but I think MYJAR was entitled to rely on that 
information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what MYJAR knew about X, I 
wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the information X gave it. This therefore means, I 
cant say that MYJAR have done something wrong in lending X these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint X, but I hope my explanation will help 
them understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Xs complaint and make no award against MYJAR Limited.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman