DRN-3924370
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) wont refund over 
£17,000 he says he lost to two separate investment scams between October 2021 and 
January 2022.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr C fell victim to an investment scam after he was contacted 
by a broker (the scammer) from SwissUnion. They encouraged him to invest and instructed 
him to open a cryptocurrency account with Swissborg, where he then sent several payments 
over the course of three months totalling over £17,000. After his funds were paid into his 
crypto account, they were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. He realised he had 
been scammed when the broker stopped responding to him and he was unable to withdraw 
his funds.
Mr C said he also fell victim to another investment scam around the same time with a 
different broker called Worldtradecentre, which led to him making a €250 payment to 
vikingex.com.
Mr C reported the fraud to Virgin Money, but it refused to refund the money he had lost as he 
had authorised the transactions. Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. He noted 
that Virgin Money had spoken to Mr C about one of the payments he was making as part of 
the first scam, and thought the bank could have gone further with its intervention. However, 
he didnt think this would have ultimately prevented the scam due to the lack of adverse 
information about the scammer at the time. And in terms of the second payment, he didnt 
think this would have appeared unusual enough to warrant an intervention.
Mr C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payments he made as part of both 
scams. The payments were requested using his legitimate security credentials provided 
by Virgin Money, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Mr C from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Its common ground here that at least one of the payments Mr C made was considered 
unusual by Virgin Money given that the initial scam transaction of £780 on 29 October 
2021 did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically blocked 
pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far 
enough in all the circumstances with its intervention.
When Virgin Money called Mr C on 29 October 2021, it asked him the reason for the 
payment, to which he said he was investing in cryptocurrency. The agent asked Mr C if 
anyone else had asked him to make this payment, to which he said they hadnt. Virgin 
Money then told Mr C that he should seek independent advice before making the 
payment and to check the company is regulated and authorised by the FCA, but Mr C 
said he was happy to proceed. Based on what was said on the phone call, I accept that 
Virgin Money could have arguably gone further in its questioning of Mr C. But even 
accepting this as the case, Im not persuaded any such further questioning would have 
ultimately uncovered the scam and prevented the loss in any event. 
Mr C said he had no indication that SwissUnion was a scam at the time. He said there 
were no warnings online, nor was there anything published by the FCA.  I appreciate that 
an FCA warning was later published about the scammer after Mr C had made his 
payments. But having carried out my own research, I cannot see that there was any 
adverse information about SwissUnion in October 2021 either. So, if Virgin Money had 
warned him that he might be being scammed and to carry out further research, its 
unlikely he would have found anything significant that would have led him to believe he 
was being scammed. Indeed, Virgin Money told him to do just that and to check if the 
broker was registered, but it seems that Mr C was happy with the research he had 
already carried out and was happy to proceed. He also said he had been told by the 
scammer to lie to the bank and say that he hadnt been asked by anyone else to make 
the payment. So, it also seems unlikely that any further questioning would have revealed 
the scam in any event. 
Therefore, I dont think Virgin Moneys failure to ask further probing questions can 
reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Mr Cs loss in these circumstances, 
as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the payments irrespective of any 
intervention by the bank.
I understand that Mr C fell victim to a separate scam around the same time, where he 
made a payment of €250 to vikingex.com. But given the low value of this payment, I 
dont think it would have appeared particularly unusual or out of character, so I dont 
think Virgin Money ought to have intervened and questioned Mr C about this payment, 
meaning it cant reasonably be held liable for this loss either.  
Mr C has said that during the time of the scam he was suffering from very poor mental 
health and was experiencing issues from the medication he was on that affected his 
cognitive state. Im very sorry to hear about the difficult time Mr C has been going 
through, and I appreciate how this would have likely impacted his thinking. But I cant 
see that Virgin Money had been made aware of any vulnerabilities, or that it ought 
reasonably to have been on notice that Mr C lacked capacity to make financial decisions 
when it spoke to him on 29 October 2021. As a result, it wouldnt have been reasonable 
for Virgin Money to refuse a payment mandate given by Mr C after he had assured it that 
he was happy to proceed with the payment.
Ive also thought about whether Virgin Money could have done anything more to recover 
the money Mr C lost after he reported the scam. The bank said it raised a fraud claim 
with the beneficiary bank but was advised that no funds remained. And given we know 
that the funds were swiftly transferred out of Mr Cs crypto wallet, its unlikely that any earlier action by the bank to try and recover the money would have been unsuccessful 
as well. I note that Mr C has also questioned why his faster payments are not being 
refunded under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). Virgin Money was 
not signed up to the Code at the time Mr C made his payments. But even if they were, 
the Code only applies to transfers made to another person. In this instance, Mr C made 
the transfers to a crypto account in his own name, so they wouldnt fall within the scope 
of the Code in any event. 
In terms of the €250 card payment, I can see that Virgin Money raised a chargeback 
claim, but this was successfully defended by the merchant as it showed that Mr C had 
paid for a voucher that had been provided. As a result, it doesnt seem likely that there 
would be any successful prospect for a chargeback claim to have succeeded here, so I 
dont think Virgin Money acted unreasonably by choosing not to pursue it any further. 
I understand that Mr C is also unhappy with the time it took Virgin Money to respond to 
his complaint. However, complaint handling is not a regulated activity, so Im afraid it is 
not something I am able to comment on as part of this decision. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Virgin Money liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman