DRN-4382311
The complaint
Mr V complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) didnt accept his short term 
right to reject a car. He would like it to do so. And to compensate him for the distress 
caused.
What happened
 Mr V took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Startline for a seven-year-old car with 
81,521 miles on the clock on 7 May 2023. He says on 18 May 2023 the car broke down with 
warning lights on the dashboard for the engine, coil light and stop/start function. He says a 
mechanic advised him the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) was blocked
Mr V says the supplying dealership told him it couldnt fix the DPF until the end of June 
during which time he wouldnt have been able to use the car due to the terms of the 
warranty. 
Mr V says at this point he made it clear he wanted to exercise his short term right to reject 
the car. He also told us he had to buy another car
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded :-
Mr Vs car broke down within a very short time of having it and the issue identified  - 
the blocked DPF  he said couldnt be fixed for approximately six weeks.
Consumer credit legislation allows for a short term right to reject goods that are 
faulty. There was no dispute that Mr V asked to reject his car within the 30 days he 
had to do so. The issue for me to decide was if there was a fault with the car that 
meant he should have been allowed to reject it.
Mr V said there were issues with the dashboard and the DPF. The report from when 
his car broke down noted an engine fault light code for the DPF but Mr V didnt want 
the mechanic to carry out the regeneration. The only other fault code noted was a 
tyre pressure warning. There was no mention of a stop /start issue that Mr V 
mentioned to us. So it seemed to me the dashboard indicators only advised of two 
issues  tyre pressure and the DPF.
I also saw the job sheet provided by the supplying dealership to whom Mr V returned 
the car. This noted it carried out diagnostic tests and did the DPF regeneration. It 
carried out  extensive road testing  including testing the stop /start function and no 
issues were found. The mechanic found the gears were engaging and couldnt fault 
the vehicle.
I found the information from the mechanic who attended the breakdown, and the 
supplying dealership consistent. There was no fault with Mr Vs car but two  likely 
maintenance issues. The first one of low tyre pressure  Mr V took out an agreement 
for a used car so could likely have  expect more wear , tear, and maintenance than 
with a new car. Possible low tyre pressure falls under routine maintenance and isnt a 
fault.
The second issue was the DPF but this was also, in my view , a maintenance issue  
not a fault. Its something Mr V could have expected to have had to address at some 
point. It wasnt grounds to allow him to reject the car.
Based on the information both sides provided I didnt think it was reasonable to 
expect Startline to allow Mr V to reject his car as I saw no evidence of an actual fault.
I noted Mr V chose not to have the DPF regeneration carried out at the roadside 
when he broke down which would have resolved the issue. That was his choice. I 
also understood Mr V could have potentially resolved the issue himself by taking the 
car on a long drive but accept he may not have felt confident to do this. There is also 
an argument that given DPF regeneration is a maintenance issue, in this case on a 
used car, that  it didnt warrant a free repair 
But ,given how little time Mr V had the car and the fact the supplying dealership did 
offer to carry out the regeneration I  thought it was unreasonable to expect Mr V to 
wait six weeks for this to be done. If , as he says , he couldnt drive the car once an 
issue had been identified due to the terms of his warranty. I thought the supplying 
dealership could have done more to resolve the issue for Mr V. It could for example 
have offered him the use of a courtesy car or sought to outsource the DPF 
regeneration elsewhere. 
Whilst I didnt  feel I had evidence to support rejection of the car I thought Startline 
should pay Mr V £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused and to cover the 
out-of-pocket expenses our investigator identified. If Mr Vs account was up to date 
this should be paid to him, if his account was in arrears this sum should be deducted 
from the balance owing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Startline accepted my provisional decision. Mr V, understandably, has not accepted it.
I have considered very carefully the points Mr V has made.
He has told us he only drove on motorways so that should have cleared the DPF but didnt. I 
appreciate it would be difficult for Mr V to evidence how he used the car. But as I understand 
it the DPF regeneration was successful . I have no evidence that wasnt the issue with the 
car. So, its unfortunate if , as Mr V says, he drove the car in a way which might have 
resolved the issue that it didnt. But that doesnt change the fact that the issue is a 
maintenance one resolved by the DPF regeneration.
Mr V is right that there is a short term right to reject a car if it isnt of satisfactory quality, but I 
didnt find that to be the case here as both the report from the breakdown and the supplying 
dealership didnt find a fault with the car.
I agree the timescale to do the DPF regeneration was excessive which is why in my 
provisional decision I made allowance for that with compensation.
I understood the issue with Mr Vs warranty was that the terms of the warranty wouldnt allow 
him to drive the car once an issue was identified. Mr V has now told us that his warranty 
would have expired by the  date given for the regeneration to be done. If I misunderstood the 
issue with his warranty I apologise. However, If the issue was Mr V would have had to pay for the DPF regeneration that wasnt  
necessarily the case. The business might have agreed to do the regeneration as  a gesture 
of goodwill. Or hopefully they might have been able to find an earlier slot to do the 
regeneration that fell within the warranty period.
However, there is also an argument that a maintenance issue on a used car wouldnt 
warrant a free  repair and from what I understand Mr V asked to reject the car  and didnt  
want the repair. I have no evidence he tried to engage with the business to try to agree an 
earlier repair that would have fallen within the warranty period. So, I dont feel the time 
initially stated to do the regeneration is grounds to say he should have been able to reject 
the car.
Mr  V has reiterated there was an issue with the stop /start function. But that wasnt 
mentioned in the road report he provided. And the report from the garage says it tested this 
function and didnt find a problem. So, I have no evidence there was a fault with the 
stop/start function.
I do appreciate Mr Vs frustration but having carefully considered the points he has made I 
dont feel he has given me any new information that leads me to feel that I should change 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To resolve this complaint Startline Motor Finance Limited should:-
pay Mr V £150 compensation for the inconvenience of not being able to carry out the 
DPF regeneration for some weeks, and to cover out of pocket expenses Mr V 
incurred. If Mr Vs account is up to date this should be paid to him, if his account is in 
arrears this sum should be deducted from the balance owing.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman