DRN-3723631
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund a payment made using her 
debit card that Miss C says she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 21 April 2022, Miss C says she lost her mobile phone. Miss Cs debit card was also kept 
with her phone  in the case. Miss C told us her phone wasnt security protected either 
through password or bio-metric security (such as facial or fingerprint recognition) and she 
kept all of her personal details and passwords on her phone.
On the same day, £900 was transferred from Miss Cs savings account to her current 
account at 3.35pm. A couple of minutes later, a transaction of £900 was then made using 
her debit card to a money remittance provider.
Miss C says she didnt authorise either the transfer of money between her accounts, or the 
debit card transaction and would like HSBC to refund it. Miss C also reported the matter to 
Action Fraud and to the money remittance provider. 
HSBC investigated the matter and was unable to conclude that Miss C had been the victim 
of fraud and that she did not make the transaction herself or enable another person to use 
her card. Because of this, it declined refunding the disputed transaction. 
Unhappy, Miss C referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised, based on the circumstances 
surrounding what had happened, they found it more likely than not that either Miss C 
authorised the disputed transactions either by making the payments herself or by allowing 
someone to make them. 
As Miss C disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In reviewing this complaint, I have taken into consideration Miss Cs testimony to our service 
and the evidence provided by HSBC  including the online banking report, card activity log 
and the call recordings between Miss C and HSBC when she reported the matter and the 
subsequent conversations she had. 
I would also like to add at this point that where there is a dispute about what happened, I 
have to reach my findings on what I think is more likely than not to have happened, based on 
the balance of probabilities.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) says they havent authorised an executed payment  the payment service 
provider (in this case HSBC) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. 
PSR 2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Miss C says she didnt consent or authorise the transactions as she lost her mobile phone 
and bank card and an unknown party carried out the transaction without her consent. 
First, I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that the £900 transaction 
was authenticated and then second, I need to consider whether I think it is likely that they 
were carried out with or without Miss Cs consent.
 
The disputed transaction  was it authenticated?
 
It is not in dispute that Miss Cs mobile phone and bank card were used in the transactions. 
Miss Cs mobile banking was used to make the transfer from Miss Cs savings account to 
her current account, following which Miss Cs bank card was then used to make the £900 
transaction to a money remittance provider. HSBC has provided technical evidence to 
confirm this also.
So Im satisfied the transactions in question were authenticated as per the PSR 2017, using 
Miss Cs mobile banking and her card details. 
This means I now need to determine whether Miss C consented to the payment made.
In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Miss C could have 
made the transactions without her consent, or whether I think Miss C, or somebody with her 
knowledge and consent, made the transactions Miss C is disputing.
Miss C says she lost her mobile phone and her bank card, which shes said she kept with 
her phone. And Miss C says that she didnt keep her phone locked through any security 
features, with all her personal details, security information and passwords stored on her 
phone. Miss C says an unknown party carried out the transactions.
Having thought about this carefully, I think it is unlikely that an unknown opportunistic 
fraudster, having found Miss Cs mobile phone and bank card, carried out the transactions. I 
say this because only £900 was transferred out of Miss Cs savings account  when she had 
more money available in her savings account. I dont think this is typical of how an 
opportunistic fraudster is more likely than not to have acted, if they had the ability to have 
seen what Miss Cs available balance was on both her current account and savings account.I think it more likely than not that an unknown fraudster wouldnt have any concern about 
trying to get as much money as possible. Im persuaded they would have tried to empty 
Miss Cs account as quickly as they could without fear of being caught. Its more likely than 
not a fraudster simply would have either transferred out as much funds as they could or used 
Miss Cs bank card to try and make as many transactions as they could, until it was blocked. 
But this didnt happen here and only a select amount was transferred into the current 
account to make a payment through a money remittance provider and the bank card wasnt 
used for any other transactions (such as contactless). 
I am also mindful that Miss Cs online banking was accessed through the mobile device 
multiple times after the transaction but there were no transactions carried out (i.e. no further 
funds were utilised). This suggests that the unknown party logged in multiple times after the 
£900 transaction, and despite Miss C having funds in both her savings account and current 
account didnt attempt to carry out any transactions. Again, I think it is reasonable to suggest 
that an unknown opportunistic fraudster would have taken the opportunity to remove as 
much funds as possible whether through transfers or contactless card. And I find it unlikely 
that once a fraudster had successfully accessed Miss Cs online banking and successfully 
used the card that they would stop and not try to empty the account.
So Im not persuaded and cant be as sure as I would need to be, to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision, that an unknown party to Miss C made the transactions Miss C is 
disputing. I dont find it plausible that an unknown fraudster would have transferred a partial 
amount of Miss Cs savings to make a transaction and not emptied / cleared the bank 
account or used her bank card for other transactions such as contactless.
As I consider that the transactions were unlikely to be carried out by an unknown party to 
Miss C; I consider it is more likely that either Miss C or a known party to Miss C made the 
transactions with her knowledge, authority and consent.
For these reasons, I cant fairly say HSBC should be held responsible for the transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman