DRN-1473335
The complaint
Mr D complains that the car he acquired through BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BMW) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car and cancel the finance 
agreement.
What happened
Mr D entered a hire purchase agreement in September 2018 to acquire a new car. The 
credit agreement was set up over a 48-month term, with monthly payments of £451.16 and a 
final payment of just under £7,000.
Mr D says steam is regularly emitted from the radiator grill and this means the car isnt of 
satisfactory quality and because of this he should be able to reject it. Mr D told us:
He took the car back to the dealership on several occasions, but it said it couldnt 
replicate the issue;
the dealership did say that this was a known issue; the manufacturer was aware of it; 
and it would be corrected with a software update in July 2019  six months later. It 
asked Mr D to contact it again nearer the time so he could book his car in for the 
software update;
the software update was completed but it hasnt remedied the problem, and he wants 
to cancel the finance agreement and reject the car.
BMW rejected this complaint. It says it cant accept Mr Ds rejection of the car because there 
is no fault with it. It says the car is defect free and mechanically sound and the car is 
operating normally.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld; she said 
Mr D should be able to reject the car and end his finance agreement. And she thought BMW 
should pay him £300 in compensation for the considerable trouble and upset it had caused 
him.
She explained shed viewed a number of videos and had seen the steam escaping from the 
radiator grill; both before and after the software upgrade that was intended to fix the issue. 
She noted that the dealership had been given a number of opportunities to resolve the issue, 
but that the problem was still present.
BMW disagreed. It says that the fact Mr D was able to wait a number of months for the 
software update indicates the absence of a defect requiring immediate remediation. And in 
the absence of a fault confirmed by its technical experts, BMW said it wouldnt accept the 
rejection of the car.
Another investigator looked at this complaint afresh. They said the complaint should be 
upheld and Mr D was entitled to reject the car. They explained that based on the evidence 
theyd seen, it was likely there was a fault with the car, albeit an intermittent one.
They said Mr Ds testimony had been consistent since he first raised his complaint, more 
than 12 months earlier; wed seen emails from the dealership confirming the existence of the 
issue in August 2019; and Mr D had provided a number of videos showing that the problem 
with the steam was still present.
BMW disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr D is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMW is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMW in this case  had a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. In this case, I would consider 
relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars age, price, description and mileage.
The car that was supplied to Mr D was brand new and cost over £25,000. Ill take into 
account that I think a reasonable person would expect to have a significant amount of 
trouble-free motoring and expect that it could be used  free from defects  for a 
considerable amount of time.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr D was of satisfactory 
quality or not. There is clearly some disagreement over whether the car has a fault. Mr D 
clearly thinks there is, whereas BMW says it is operating as it should. So, Ill consider if I 
think this is the case or not.
BMW says what Mr D has experienced is a characteristic of the car. But it also says that its 
seen no evidence of the fault that Mr D describes. So, Ive considered both of these points 
carefully.
Even if I were to accept BMWs position that the emittance of steam in this volume were a 
characteristic of Mr Ds car, I have to take account of the emails and internal note from the 
dealership. These state that this is a known issue; one that the manufacturer is aware of; its 
been allocated a technical reference; the cause of the issue is understood; and the 
scheduled software update would rectify the matter. And, taking all of this into account, the 
fact that the software update didnt correct the known problem; the absence of an 
explanation for the continuation of the problem; and the internal notes between the dealer 
and the manufacturer indicating concerns that the software update hadnt fixed the problem 
suggests to me that this wasnt a characteristic of the car. So, Im satisfied that there is a 
fault with Mr Ds car.
Ive thought about the fact that the dealership couldnt replicate the fault on each occasion it 
looked at the car. But Mr Ds testimony is persuasive; hes provided a significant number of 
videos, in various weather conditions, taken over a long period of time. In each video, the issue he describes is clearly visible to me. So, its possible the fault is intermittent; and this 
may explain why it couldnt be replicated when the dealership looked at the car.
Given how soon after getting the car Mr D describes the issues beginning, Im satisfied this 
fault was present when Mr D got the car. And, thinking about the fact the car was brand new, 
the amount of steam being emitted from the grill wouldve not only reduced his enjoyment of 
his new car, but wouldve caused him serious concern, anxiety and worry about whether 
what he was seeing was a potential safety hazard. So, Im satisfied a reasonable person 
would consider the car to have been of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Given that the 
dealership had looked at the car a number of times, and the scheduled software update 
didnt rectify the problem, I dont think any further attempts at repair seem reasonable. So, I 
think Mr D should be able to reject the car.
I need to consider that Mr D has had use of the car. But I do appreciate what hes told us 
about the worry and anxiety that this fault has caused him since he first acquired the car. 
And Mr D has also told us this issue has caused him some inconvenience. I can understand 
this; he saw the fault on a daily basis even if the dealership couldnt replicate it and then 
couldnt correct it. And hes had to take time out to return the car to the dealership several 
times. So, I think BMW should pay him £300 to reflect this.
Putting things right
I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to put things right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay 
Collect the car at no cost to Mr D at a time and date suitable for him 
Pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file in relation to this agreement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman