DRN-4506509
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr B took out in 2021 with HSBC UK Bank Plc on the 
advice and recommendation of a third party intermediary. The essence of the complaint is 
that HSBC issued the mortgage funds based on the first of two different mortgage offers 
that were issued. The chief consequence of this is that Mr B was on a higher interest rate 
than he believes he should have been, and that this rate expired, and therefore needed to 
be refinanced, sooner than he was expecting. Mr B seeks redress for the financial loss 
this has caused.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 22 November 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
In what follows, I have set out events in rather less detail than they have been 
presented. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service 
we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This 
approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and 
not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my 
opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader 
outcome. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr B being identified. Instead Ill give a summary in my own 
words (and rounding the figures where appropriate) and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mr B applied for the mortgage with HSBC via a firm of mortgage brokers Ill refer to 
as H. H submitted the application online through an electronic portal. Mr B also 
instructed a firm of solicitors Ill refer to as J to act for him. On 6 April 2021, HSBC 
issued an offer of £295,999 based on a purchase price of £575,000. Attached to the 
offer was an interest rate product which fixed the rate at 1.14% until 31 May 2023. 
On 21 June 2021, J submitted a smart certificate of title (COT) requesting the 
funds to complete the mortgage. HSBC released the funds but these were returned 
when completion didnt take place. 
On 9 July 2021, H submitted a revision to the application to reflect a reduction Mr B 
had negotiated in the purchase price; this was now £567,500. On 13 July 2021, 
HSBC messaged H via the portal to say the application couldnt be changed 
because it had already completed, so a new application would be required. That 
was submitted on 29 July 2021, and approved by HSBCs underwriters on 
11 August 2021; the offer was issued the same day. The second offer was still for 
£295,999, albeit based on the lower purchase price, and came with a different 
interest rate product attached. This time, the rate was fixed at 0.94% until 
30 November 2023.
On 13 August 2021, so two days after the second offer was issued, HSBC 
messaged H with instructions to cancel the first application. H received the 
message, but it turns out didnt read it, because by this point, it was only monitoring 
the new application on the portal. 
On 24 August 2021, J again submitted a COT requesting funds to complete the 
mortgage; the funds were released and this time, the purchase went ahead. On 
9 September 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr B at his new address, confirming drawdown 
of the mortgage, on a rate of 1.14% fixed until 31 May 2023; i.e. the rate from the 
first offer. This seemingly went unnoticed until December 2022 when HSBC wrote 
to Mr B to say his fixed rate deal was due to end in May 2023, so he should 
consider his options for picking a new rate. This prompted Mr B to complain that he 
was on the wrong rate product. 
HSBC rejected the complaint, pointing out that H hadnt cancelled the first 
application, and that J had used the first applications reference number when 
submitting the COT for the second time. To avoid reverting to HSBCs standard 
variable rate, Mr H booked a new rate to follow on from the disputed product. This 
product, which was reserved in February 2023 to take effect from 1 June 2023, was 
for a rate of 3.99% fixed until 30 June 2028.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what 
I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed 
to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what 
I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil 
cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, from both sides, and decide how much 
weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual 
documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on 
the whole picture. 
Our enabling legislation, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, provides at 
section 225 that we are required to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we 
investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions 
without interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every 
individual question or issue thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
In reaching my decision, I will have regard for the law and good industry practice 
where relevant, but my overarching responsibility is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. That can sometime mean reaching a different 
outcome from what might prevail in court.We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA); nor are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute 
resolution body; an informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and 
their customer to resolve their differences. We deal with individual disputes  when 
were able to  subject to rules laid down by the FCA (which are known as the DISP 
Rules). 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If Im to find in Mr Bs favour, I have to be satisfied of two things:
that there were errors and omissions on HSBCs part in how it handled his 
mortgage applications; and 
that such errors and omissions are the sole or primary reason Mr B ended 
up on the rate from the first offer instead of the second. 
The latter is not entirely a binary question. Ultimately, the test I have to apply is this: 
notwithstanding other factors, but for any shortcomings there may have been on 
HSBCs part, is it more likely than not that Mr B would have completed on the right 
offer?
Mr Bs case centres on two key points, which Ive taken from his submission dated 
19 June 2023 and summarised below:
The first offer was no longer valid, because the terms and conditions forbade a 
price change;
HSBC had contradicted itself. On the one hand, it had told H and Mr B that the 
first application couldnt be amended. On the other hand, it had since shown that 
it was able to amend the purchase price on the system, which was why Js 
second COT submission (using the reference number from the first offer but the 
price from the second) was accepted without challenge.
Ive thought hard about these points, and whilst I appreciate Mr Bs logic, and his 
eloquence in arguing his points, I dont think theyre what the outcome of the case 
turns on. To me, what is more relevant is the timing of HSBCs instruction to H to 
cancel the first application. 
Its not clear to me why HSBC waited until two days after the second offer had been 
issued to tell H to cancel the first application. It seems to me that a better time to 
have done this was on 13 July 2021 at the same time as informing H that a new 
application was required. If HSBC had done that, H would have seen the instruction 
and, its reasonable to assume, would have acted on it. 
In summary, my overall finding is that there probably was an omission on HSBCs 
part (because it unduly delayed instructing H to cancel the first application) and that 
this omission was partly to blame for Mr B completing on the wrong rate (because it 
meant Js second COT submission was processed without any challenge to the error 
it contained).
Having found that HSBCs omission contributed to Mr B completing on the wrong 
interest rate, I now need to consider fair redress. It might seem obvious to order 
HSBC to reconstruct Mr Bs mortgage from inception by substituting the right rate for 
the wrong one. A complication to that is that the right rate expired just recently, but there are ways of accommodating that into the redress; for example by inviting Mr B 
to choose a rate from those currently available to replace the one he is currently on. 
However, simply because Ive found HSBC to be at fault doesnt then mean I must 
order it to remedy Mr Bs current position. Theres more to consider. Firstly, there 
isnt an unbroken chain of causation between the business omission on its own and 
the loss. It still needed something else to go wrong outside HSBCs span of control 
as well. Theres something else. I mentioned earlier that Mr B had taken a new rate 
in February 2023 to mitigate his position when the wrong rate expired at the end of 
May 2023. Thats fine as far as it goes, but it seems to me Mr B had opportunities to 
mitigate his position much sooner than he did. 
The earliest of these was when HSBC wrote to him immediately after completion. 
This letter not only made it clear that the interest rate was 1.14% fixed until 
31 May 2023; it also specified what the monthly payments would be. Allowing for the 
first payment being slightly higher - which is normal because it includes the interest 
for the part month in which the loan started - the letter told Mr B hed be paying a little 
under £1,135 per month. Thats consistent with the figure quoted in the first offer, and 
higher than the figure quoted in the second offer. 
The difference may not be huge (around £28) but combined with the specific 
reference to the rate product, this letter should have put Mr B on notice that 
something was wrong and needed putting right. Had he acted on that, HSBC would 
have had an opportunity to resolve the situation  by switching rate products  
immediately. 
Even if I give Mr B the benefit of the doubt on the completion letter - and in all 
fairness, I dont think theres a compelling reason to do so - it seems to me he then 
missed another opportunity to spot the anomaly, and ask for remedial action, when 
HSBC sent him his first annual statement in June 2023. This document again drew 
attention to the rate being charged, and that it was fixed until 31 May 2023. It also 
listed the payments hed made each month since the mortgage started, and again 
these sums were consistent with the first offer and not the second. 
Put all of the above together and Im not minded to order HSBC to compensate Mr B 
for the loss hes claiming due to his mortgage having completed on the wrong 
interest rate. All I am minded to award Mr B is modest compensation for his time, and 
the trouble and upset caused by having to bring the complaint. In all the 
circumstances, the sum Im currently minded to award is £200.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. I can see how strongly Mr B feels. Thats a natural, 
subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look 
at things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on 
the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, for all the reasons Ive 
set out, I cant find in Mr Bs favour, to the extent he is seeking. 
I will however make a further observation. Theres more (and sometimes less) to 
complaint resolution than simply deciding whos right or whos wrong. Its not just 
about winning the argument or indeed pursuing the argument to its ultimate legal 
conclusion; sometimes its about compromising to reach a fair conclusion. In my 
view, Ive done that here.Theres a possibility that this case may go to court, if Mr B ultimately reject my final 
decision. And if that happens, then subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr Bs recourse to a legal remedy of his own against HSBC over 
the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration 
of it. But of course he will need to weigh up the likelihood of a successful outcome 
and the potential costs hell face if not successful.
I gave the parties two weeks to comment on the provisional decision; both have done so 
already. HSBC rejected the notion that it should have notified H sooner that the first 
application needed to be cancelled. It said it was Hs responsibility, not HSBCs, to know 
which application was progressing and which wasnt. Mr B made four points, which I 
summarise below.
It was factually wrong to say something else had to go wrong outside HSBCs span of 
control.
If he had spotted the error immediately, hed have either had to complain to HSBC - 
which begs the question of whether it would have reacted differently from how it did 
when he complained in December 2022 - or re-mortgage at considerable extra financial 
cost and personal time.
 Taking the timeliness of noticing misconduct into account runs contrary to a wide range 
of contract and criminal law. 
I am applying different burdens of care to HSBC and to Mr B. He was being penalised for 
failing to detect a change that was 0.5% of his monthly income, but HSBC also failed to 
identify anomalies on the second COT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not 
persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions. But I will address the further points 
that the parties have made.
HSBC says its wrong of me to hold it accountable for not instructing H to cancel the first 
application sooner than it did. But it was HSBC that made the instruction to cancel a key part 
of its defence against the complaint. I dont think HSBC can fairly and credibly repudiate that 
argument when I have found it to be a relevant point, but at the same time questioned the 
timeliness of the action. 
Its important also to remember that I havent found a direct causal link between the 
timeliness of HSBCs instruction to H and Mr Bs loss claim. My finding was that it was a 
contributory factor, in that it allowed Js submission of the second COT with the reference 
number from the first application to go unchallenged. And that brings me to Mr Bs points.
When I mentioned something else outside HSBCs control having to go wrong, I was 
referring to the submission of the second COT with the reference number from the first 
application. Thats not factually incorrect; it happened, and its why the second test I alluded 
to in the provisional decision  i.e, errors and omissions on HSBCs part being the sole or 
primary reason Mr B ended up on the rate from the first offer instead of the second  hasnt 
been met. I cant know for certain whether or how HSBC might have responded differently if Mr B had 
noticed the mortgage was on the wrong rate at completion, but I dont need to. As I 
explained in the provisional decision, the test we apply is the balance of probabilities; that is, 
what would most likely have happened. HSBC would have less reason to stand its ground if 
Mr B had raised the issue immediately. Firstly it would have been immediately apparent the 
terms on which the mortgage had completed werent what Mr B wanted, rather than possibly 
being something hed initially gone along with but then later changed his mind about. Also, 
unwinding something as soon as it has happened is substantially simpler than doing so more 
than a year into the life of the transaction. 
Mr B says taking timeliness into account runs contrary to contract and criminal law. The first 
point to make there is that the timeliness of actions taken by both parties is a factor in the 
overall outcome of this case. The second point to make is to revert to something I said in the 
provisional decision, which is that whilst I will have regard for the law and good industry 
practice where relevant, my overarching responsibility is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. That can sometime mean reaching a different outcome 
from what might prevail in court.
The general position is that mitigation requires a person to take steps to minimise their loss 
and to avoid taking unreasonable steps that increase their loss. A person cant recover 
damages for any loss (whether caused by a breach of contract or breach of duty) which 
could have been avoided by taking reasonable steps. A person is said to have a "duty to 
mitigate". 
This isnt a duty thats enforceable by anyone, rather it is a recognition that if a person fails to 
do so, their capacity to seek redress will be affected by that failure. In my view, thats 
relevant and appropriate here. 
Mr B has said that until now, he has never reviewed documents from financial services 
providers with the mindset they might be trying to defraud him. He says theres no statutory 
or regulatory duty to do so and consumers arent expected to detect misconduct by 
regulated businesses. But this isnt about statutory or regulatory duty, attempted fraud or 
detecting misconduct. Its basic common sense for a consumer to check that what they have 
received  whether a product or a service  is what they ordered. 
To do that, Mr B didnt need to pick up a 0.5% difference in his monthly disposable income; 
he just needed to cross-reference his completion letter with the second mortgage offer to 
make sure they contained the same information about the interest rate and monthly 
payment. 
Mr B references HSBC not picking up discrepancies in the second COT. Ive not ignored 
that; but because it happened earlier in the timeline, ultimately Im not persuaded the 
outcome of the complaint turns on it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, by ordering HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Mr B £200 compensation for his time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman