DRN-3823017
The complaint
Ms B is complaining that Skipton Building Society didnt do enough to help her change her 
address on her bank accounts.
What happened
In March 2021 Ms B contacted Skipton on one of its social media platforms to say she 
wanted to close her accounts but wasnt able to do it online. She said she had tried to 
download the mobile app, but it wasnt showing on her phone. Skipton advised her that, as 
she had advised shed recently changed address, it couldnt send her a cheque with the 
balance on the accounts until she changed the address through its secure system. 
Ms B contacted Skipton again in May 2021 through its live chat facility and said she was 
still having issues with the app and wanted to change her address. Skipton again advised 
her that she needed to complete the secure process and Ms B queried why the live chat 
facility wasnt secure. She said shed tried to update it on the app, but she hadnt been able 
to generate a passcode to enable her to do so. Skiptons advisor said she could log into the 
online portal and send a secure message setting out her new address. 
Ms B remained unhappy with the situation and raised a complaint. Skipton didnt uphold her 
complaint so she referred it to this service. In this she also said that she went to her local 
Skipton branch on a Saturday morning, but it had closed early that day. She also said that 
shed asked Skipton to send its response to her in the post, but it hadnt done so.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Ms B didnt agree with the investigators 
opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I can understand why Ms B is unhappy with whats happened. She seems to have had a lot 
of difficulty in carrying out what should be a relatively straightforward task  closing her 
accounts down and accessing her money. But, at the same time, banks have a responsibility 
to protect its customers accounts from potential fraud.
In this case, Ms B had told Skipton shed recently moved address, so the address Skipton 
had on file was no longer her residing address. Ms B wanted Skipton to send the balance on 
her accounts by cheque, but it said it wouldnt do so until the address was changed. I think 
thats fair and understandable as it wouldnt reasonably want to send money to an address 
that it knows Ms B doesnt reside at.
I appreciate Ms B feels the process for changing an address should be straightforward, and I 
dont disagree with this. But, as I said, Skipton also has to be mindful that there could be a 
third party trying to access the account, so its entitled to put safeguards in place to prevent 
an unlawful change of address. I dont think Skipton has acted unreasonably here.
Initially, I understand Skipton said Ms B had to change the address through the secure app 
or go to branch. But Ms B explained to Skipton she couldnt access the app. I can see it then 
said she could send an email through the online account and it explained how to do this. I 
appreciate Ms B is unhappy Skipton wouldnt allow her to change the address through the 
live chat, but I dont think this was unreasonable as its not a secure system and it could 
have been open to third-party access  i.e. someone pretending to be Ms B to gain access 
to her funds. And Skipton explained it wasnt a secure system.
I can see that Skipton advised us Ms B could call to get support accessing the account and 
Ms B is unhappy she wasnt told this sooner. I havent seen what was specifically said on the 
social media platform, but Im ultimately satisfied that Skipton did look to find ways to enable 
Ms B to securely change the address. And I cant say its treated her unreasonably here.
Ive also thought about Ms Bs comments that she was unable to attend branch in opening 
hours, but when she did it was closed. What hours a banks branch is open is a commercial 
decision and is down to the banks decision. But I also think its operating hours are in line 
with industry standard. Ms B says the branch had closed early when she attended. Im not 
persuaded Ive seen enough to support this, but, even if it did, I cant hold Skipton 
responsible for this as it doesnt provide a guarantee that the branch will be open at all times. 
And it can alter opening hours for specific reasons. Ultimately, Im satisfied Skipton has set 
out numerous ways that Ms B could have changed her address for Skipton to send written 
correspondence to.
As I said, I can appreciate why Ms B has found this process frustrating. But I dont think I can 
reasonably say Skipton has treated her unfairly in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint.
I can also see that Ms B wanted Skipton to send the complaint letter in the post. But for the 
same reasons as above, Skipton has said it cant do so until it has an updated address on 
file. I dont think this is unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman