DRN-4238370
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (HRG) trading as Argos 
Card lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2015 Mrs O applied for an Argos card. HRG approved the application and gave 
Mrs O a card with an initial credit limit of £2000. The credit limit was increased in March 
2016, December 2016, April 2017, June 2018 and June 2019.
Mrs O complained that HRG had lent to her irresponsibly.
HRG didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had completed proportionate checks before 
lending to Mrs O. 
Mrs O remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that by offering Mrs O a credit limit of £2000 
when the account was opened, HRG was doubling the amount of credit that Mrs O had 
access to whilst being on a low income of around £544 per month. The investigator said that, 
assuming that Mrs O made a repayment of 5% each month for both of her credit accounts, 
this would amount to £200 per month, which was around 37% of her monthly income. The 
investigator said that it was unlikely that Mrs O would have been able to make her 
repayments sustainably.
HRG didnt agree. It said that the outcome was based on an assumption of Mrs Os income 
based on her age. It said there was no evidence that Mrs Os only source of income was her 
pension. HRG said that its records for the past year showed that Mrs O had validated 
income of £13,530 which gave her a disposable income of £300 - £350 per month. It said 
that on that basis it believed that the lending was affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mrs Os complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, HRG needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mrs O could sustainably repay what was being lent to her.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks carried out by HRG before it lent to Mrs O to decide whether these 
were reasonable and proportionate. 
HRG has told this service that Mrs O provided details of her income and expenditure in her 
application. It reviewed this and carried out a credit search. HRG said that it approved the 
application because Mrs O met its lending criteria.
HRG hasnt provided this service with the details of Mrs Os declared income and 
expenditure. So this service asked Mrs O to provide this information. Mrs O said she was in 
receipt of a state pension of £115 per week and a widows pension of £46 per month. This 
equated to monthly income of £544.
HRG hasnt provided this service with details of the credit checks it completed at the time of 
the application. So this service reviewed Mrs Os credit report. The report shows that Mrs O 
held another credit account at the time she applied for the credit with HRG, with a credit limit 
of £2000. She also held another credit account (credit limit unknown) and a mail order 
account (credit limit unknown).
Because HRG hasnt provided the results of the credit checks it completed, it isnt possible 
for me to say exactly what level of unsecured debt Mrs O had at the time of the application 
for credit. With HRG. So Ive reached my decision based on what I think is most likely.
One of Mrs Os credit accounts had a credit limit of £2000. And the Argos card had the same 
credit limit. This means that Mrs O had a credit facility of at least £4000. I say at least 
because I dont know what the credit limits were on the other two credit accounts.  If Mrs O 
had fully utilised her credit limits, she wouldve had a significant level of unsecured debt in 
relation to her income. If Mrs O made repayments of 5% each month this would equate to 
around £200 per month or around 37% of her monthly income. This is a high debt to income 
ratio. In these circumstances, I think this shouldve prompted HRG to carry out further 
checks to obtain a more detailed picture of Mrs Os financial circumstances. 
Ive gone on to consider what further checks might have shown. I cant be certain of exactly 
what checks HRG wouldve caried out and what information it mightve obtained. However, 
in the absence of HRG having carried out further checks, Ive looked at Mrs Os bank 
statements for the period September to November 2015. These statements show that Mrs 
Os only source of income was her pension. The statements also shows that Mrs O regularly 
used her overdraft facility. 
Looking at the bank statements, it doesnt appear that Mrs O had sufficient disposable 
income to sustainably repay any further lending. HRG has suggested that Mrs O might have 
an alternative bank account because there arent any rent or mortgage payments on her 
bank statements. Ive thought about this, but I think its likely, given Mrs Os age, that any 
mortgage wouldve been paid off previously.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs O was likely to be able to sustainably repay the 
credit. Because of this I dont think the decision to approve the account and extend credit 
was a fair lending decision.
Credit limit increases
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that there was a significant and sustained 
improvement in Mrs Os financial circumstances since the account was opened and up to the 
final credit limit increase in June 2019. HRG hasnt provided any information about the 
checks it carried out prior to increasing the credit limit. Mrs O has told this service that her 
source of income remained the same. I appreciate that the state pension may have 
increased between 2015 and 2019 but Im not persuaded that it increased by an amount which can be said to have brought about a significant and sustained improvement in Mrs Os 
financial circumstances. For these reasons, I dont think the credit limit increases were affair, 
because they increased Mrs Os indebtedness when she didnt have sufficient income to 
sustainably repay the credit.
Putting things right
Mrs O has had the benefit of the credit she was given so I think its fair that she repays this. 
However, because Ive found that the lending decision wasnt fair, I think HRG should put 
things right by refunding interest and charges.
HRG must:
Rework the account removing all interest fees and charges which have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs O together with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. HRG should also remove all adverse information regarding the account from Mrs 
Os credit file.
If after the rework there is an outstanding balance, HRG should arrange an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs O. Once she has cleared the balance, any adverse information in 
relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HMRC require HRG to take off tax from this interest. HRG must give Mrs O a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Home Retail Group Card Services Limited 
trading as Argos Card must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman