DRN-3245702
The complaint
Ms P complains that Everyday Lending Limited  trading as Everyday Loans (EDL) gave her 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Ms P took out two loans with EDL, on the following basis:
Loan Date Amount 
borrowedTerm APR Monthly 
repaymentTotal repayable
1 October 
2018£2,000.00 24 months 249.5% £243.78 £5,850.72
2 June 2019 £4,338.98 18 months 199.6% £522.97 £9,413.46
In November 2020, Ms P complained to EDL that it hadnt carried out sufficient affordability 
checks to ensure that she could meet the repayments on either loan. She said she already 
had existing high cost credit borrowing and that, as such, EDL ought to have carried out 
further enquiries before agreeing to lend. Ms P is represented in this complaint, but for ease 
I will refer to Ms P throughout. 
EDL rejected the complaint. It said that it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before granting each loan and that on both occasions it calculated Ms P 
had enough disposable income to meet the loan repayments. 
Ms P referred her concerns to this Service. She said that the lending worsened her financial 
situation, which was already poor. Her comments indicated that the second loan in particular 
had caused her the most difficulty. 
An investigator here asked Ms P to provide copies of bank statements in the three months 
leading up to each loan and one month after. Ms P provided statements in relation to Loan 2. 
Another investigator issued an opinion on the case. They said, in summary, that for Loan 1, 
EDL ought to have realised based on what it knew of Ms Ps circumstances that she would 
have been unlikely to be able to meet the loan repayments on a sustainable basis. This was 
because it appeared the loan was to be used to repay a defaulted credit card account and 
that the borrowing would increase her indebtedness at a time when she was already 
struggling with her finances. The investigator recommended that EDL repay all interest and 
charges paid by Ms P on the loan and remove any adverse information in relation to it.
For Loan 2, the investigator said they didnt think the checks carried out by EDL were 
reasonable and proportionate, but that Ms P hadnt provided the copy bank statements 
requested. And that, as such, they didnt have enough information to say that EDL needed to 
do anything further. 
EDL disagreed in relation to Loan 1. It said that its notes indicated the loan was to be used 
to repay payday loans and that by agreeing to lend, it had actually reduced Ms Ps 
outgoings. 
At this point, the investigator asked Ms P to provide the rest of the statements that had 
originally been requested. 
The investigator then issued another assessment. They said, in summary, that for Loan 1 
the checks EDL had carried out hadnt been reasonable and proportionate given relevant 
factors, which included the nature of the borrowing and Ms Ps circumstances. However, 
Ms P hadnt provided copy bank statements in relation to this loan and so they didnt have 
enough information to say that EDL needed to do anything further.
For Loan 2, the investigator said they thought EDL ought to have realised based on what it 
knew that it was increasing Ms Ps indebtedness in an unhelpful way and that she would be 
unlikely to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable manner. The investigator said that 
EDL should refund the interest and charges paid by Ms P on this loan and remove any 
adverse information in relation to it. 
EDL disagreed in relation to Loan 2. It said, in summary, that granting the loan hadnt 
increased Ms Ps indebtedness in an unhelpful way. It said that Ms P would end up paying 
less interest overall.
The investigators view didnt change and so the case was passed to me to decide.
I requested some further information from both parties. I asked Ms P:
1. how she had been able to keep up repayments on the first loan.
2. to clarify whether the second loan was used to repay the first.
3. whether the second loan consolidated all of her debts at that time; and
4. questions about two payees showing on bank statements before both loans.
Ms P replied with the following:
"In response to the questions asked; 1) I never missed a payment but the majority of my 
wages went on repaying debts, I took out various payday loans to try and subsidise my 
outgoings or I borrowed money off family. 2) The intention of the second loan was to try 
and consolidate some of my debt, the £2000 wasnt enough to pay off everything but I do 
manage to clear A few payday loans. I then found I was paying out even more than I was 
before I took the second loan out. I managed to pay the second loan off early because I 
borrowed money from my partner. 3) (in relation to the two payees showing on the bank 
statements) I have borrowed money off them to help me through the months.
I asked EDL for a copy of any call recordings from the time of sale and a copy of the full
account statements for both loans. EDL provided the statements but said it didnt hold a 
copy of any call recordings.
I then shared my provisional thoughts on the outcome of the case with both parties. I said:
For both loans, EDL had a responsibility to check that Ms P could afford to make the 
repayments on a sustainable basis i.e. without undue difficulty and without needing to resort 
to further borrowing. The checks it carried out needed to be reasonable and proportionate 
given relevant factors  such as the size and length of the loan as well as Ms Ps 
circumstances.
Loan 1In terms of affordability checks, it appears that EDL did a number of things. It asked for 
details of her income (and checked this by asking for a bank statement showing the 
income). It sourced information about Ms Ps credit commitments and worked out what this 
translated into in terms of monthly expenditure (factoring in credit that was to be repaid 
using the loan). It then did an income and expenditure calculation using this income and 
expenditure plus an additional expenditure figure  based on Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data.
Im inclined to agree with the investigator that this didnt represent reasonable and 
proportionate checks. I say this because the recent bank statement Ms P provided to EDL 
at the point of applying for the loan, showed that she had received £740 into her account 
from nine separate short-term loans and made four payments to short-term loan providers, 
totalling £970. This information that EDL had, indicated that Ms P had a strong reliance on 
short-term lending at the point of applying for the loan with EDL. Although this loan was 
intended to be used to repay the short-term loans, the extent of Ms Ps apparent reliance 
on them immediately before applying for the EDL loan, means that EDL ought to have 
realised that using an ONS average figure for expenditure wouldnt represent a reasonable 
and proportionate check. I think it needed to take a closer look at Ms Ps expenditure, to 
check that the loan repayments would be sustainable.
We have repeatedly asked Ms P to provide bank statements in the three months leading 
up to loan 1, to try to establish what reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have 
shown.
However, the only statements we have received are in relation to loan 2. Bearing this in 
mind and that Ms P has said she accepts the investigators findings in relation to loan 1, 
Im currently minded to say there is insufficient evidence to say that loan 1 was 
unaffordable.
Loan 2
It appears that EDL carried out very similar affordability checks before agreeing to lend. 
Once again, I dont think this represented reasonable and proportionate checks. I say this 
because the credit file that EDL obtained before agreeing to lend, indicated that Ms P had 
taken out further short term loans since taking out loan 1 with EDL. This ought to have 
indicated to EDL that Ms P was struggling to manage her finances. 
In addition, Ms P was looking to significantly increase her borrowing with EDL, only eight 
months after taking out the first loan. In addition to this, the monthly repayment figure for 
this loan represented a significant proportion of Ms Ps income. Taking all of these factors 
into account, I think EDL ought to have realised that it needed to take a closer look at Ms 
Ps income and expenditure (in particular the latter), to satisfy itself that Ms P would be 
able to make the loan repayments on a sustainable basis.
As above, Ms P has provided bank statements for the three months leading up to applying 
for loan 2. These show Ms P taking out a significant number of short-term loans in the lead 
up to applying for loan 2. They also indicate a consistent deficit regarding the short term 
loans, in that Ms P was paying more each month on repayments than the amounts she 
was borrowing. The statements indicate that the gap between these in and out figures, 
was bridged by payments in from the (name of relevant) accounts. Bearing in mind what 
Ms P has said about the nature of these payments into her account, I think this shows that 
she was struggling to manage her finances with her outgoings as they were. Given that the new loan significantly increased her outgoings, this strongly indicates that she would be 
unlikely to be able to meet the repayments on loan 2 in a sustainable manner. And I think 
that had EDL carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, this is what it would most 
likely have found.
Putting things right
With that being the case, I think something had gone wrong that needs to be put right. EDL 
should refund all interest, fees and charges on loan 2 plus 8% simple interest. It should also
remove any adverse information from Ms Ps credit file, in relation to the interest, fees and
charges.
I asked for any further evidence or arguments to be provided by 29 June 2022. Ms P 
responded to say that she accepted my findings. EDL didnt provide a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
Since Ms P accepted my findings and EDL didnt provide a response, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings (which form part of this decision).
For both loans, EDL was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to make 
sure that Ms P could afford to meet the loan repayments on a sustainable basis. Given the 
relevant factors (as set out in my provisional findings), I still dont think it did.
Loan 1
We repeatedly asked Ms P to provide bank statements in the three months leading up to 
Loan 1, to establish what reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
However, we never received these. I still find there is insufficient evidence to show that this 
loan was unaffordable, so I dont require EDL to do anything further in relation to this.
Loan 2
In terms of getting a better understanding of Ms Ps financial situation, in particular in relation 
to her income and outgoings, EDL couldve done this in a number of ways. As EDL didnt 
take these steps, I cant know what the checks wouldve revealed. However, Ive seen a 
copy of Ms Ps bank statements in the lead up to the loan application.
In the absence of anything else from EDL showing what proportionate checks would have 
shown, I think its fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on this as 
an indication of what Ms Ps financial circumstances were likely to have been. And what EDL 
wouldve likely uncovered if it had completed proportionate checks.
As set out in my provisional findings, the statements show Ms P taking out a significant 
number of short-term loans in the lead up to applying for this loan. They also show a number 
of payments into her account from other people. Taken together and given what Ms P has 
said about these payments into her account (which is perfectly plausible), I still think this 
shows she was struggling to manage her finances before taking out the second loan. Given 
that the monthly repayment on the new loan was significantly higher than the first, I still think 
this indicates that Ms P would be unlikely to be able to meet the loan repayments. And I still think that had EDL carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, this is what it would 
most likely have found.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Ms P in the position she would now be in if she hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Ms P 
was given the loan and she had use of the money. And, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Ms P back in the position she would be 
in if she hadnt been given the loan in the first place. However, I dont think it appropriate for 
EDL to benefit from unfair lending decisions.
Bearing this in mind, EDL needs to refund all of the interest and charges on Loan 2 and add 
8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
It also needs to remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ps credit file as a result of 
the interest and charges.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Ms Ps complaint against Everyday Lending Limited  
trading as Everyday Loans. I direct it to do what Ive said above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman