DRN-2580464
The complaint
Miss D complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (RSI) and their 
decision to decline her pet insurance claim.
What happened
On 17 October 2019, Miss D took her dog to her local vets, who Ill refer to as W, for a 
routine vaccination. At this appointment, her dog was weighed and found to be underweight. 
Miss D was told to try a new diet to address the weight gain issue. On the same day, Miss D 
took out a pet insurance policy with RSI.
Miss Ds dog responded well to the new diet and gained weight steadily over the next few 
months. But in March 2020, Miss D noticed her dog had developed loose faeces. After 
further investigations, Miss Ds dog was diagnosed with an Intra-heptic portosystemic shunt. 
Her dog underwent treatment at another surgery, who Ill refer to as N. N then submitted a 
claim to RSI for a total of £2,588.32.
But RSI declined the claim. They thought the dogs lack of weight gain noticed on 17 
October 2019 was a symptom of the shunt it was later diagnosed with. So, they thought the 
claim fell under their general exclusion which excluded any claims made for conditions that 
were present before the policy was incepted.
Miss D was unhappy about this and provided a letter from W who saw her dog on 17 
October 2019. W explained lack of weight gain wasnt uncommon in dogs the age of Miss 
Ds and as the new diet led to weight gain, they didnt think it was fair to determine this to be 
a symptom of the shunt. 
RSI considered this information, but their decision to decline the clam remained the same. 
They thought the report and diagnosis submitted by N stated the lack of weight gain noticed 
by W was a likely symptom of the shunt. So, they thought theyd assess the claim 
reasonably and that their decision to rely on the exclusion was fair. Miss D remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She didnt think RSI were fair to say 
the failure to gain weight was definitively a symptom of the shunt as a new diet had 
addressed this issue. And she thought the questions RSI asked when the policy was taken 
out werent clear enough and didnt ask Miss D whether her dog had shown any previous 
symptoms. She explained they asked if Miss D had taken her dog to the vets for any reason 
other than a routine vaccination, and she hadnt. So, she didnt think Miss D was given the 
opportunity to declare any further information that may have prompted RSI to explain further 
treatment could be excluded.
So, our investigator thought RSI should reconsider the claim without classifying the shunt as 
a pre-existing condition before the policy was incepted. Miss D accepted this 
recommendation. But RSI didnt. They maintained their view that the lack of weight gain was 
a symptom of the shunt and because of this, theyd declined the claim fairly under the terms 
of the policy. As RSI didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
RSI declined Miss Ds claim under a general exclusion regarding conditions that showed 
symptoms before the inception of the policy. The exclusion explains the policy doesnt cover 
Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates to or 
results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date. RSI have referred to the report submitted by N, which says symptoms 
began on 17 October 2019, on the day the policy was incepted. Miss D hasnt disputed that 
the policy was taken after she took her dog to W for a routine vaccination so because of this, 
RSI feel the lack of weight gain was noticed before the policy was incepted. And so, they feel 
theyve applied the exclusion fairly. So, Ive considered whether I agree.
Ive seen Miss Ds dogs medical notes, the report from N and the letter provided by W. The 
medical notes show that when Miss D took her dog for a routine vaccination, it was weighed 
and deemed to be below the weight W wouldve expected to see. But there were no other 
concerning symptoms present. It was decided that Miss D should try another diet to help her 
dog gain weight and for her to return to see if this helped. Ive seen Miss D took her dog 
back to W on three occasions after trying the new diet and on all three occasions, her dog 
had gained weight. So, it was decided that no further diagnostics needed to be undertaken.
The letter from W explains that it isnt uncommon for dogs of a similar age to struggle to gain 
weight. And they said in their opinion it was most likely the weight issue was diet related as a 
change in diet rectified the issue.
The report from N states that symptoms began on 17 October 2019. And because of this, 
RSI think this makes their decision to decline the claim fair, based on the exclusion above. 
But I disagree. I recognise that weight loss, or poor body condition which includes being 
underweight, is one of the symptoms of the shunt Miss Ds dog was diagnosed. But crucially, 
this isnt the only symptom. 
I dont think Ws recognition of Miss Ds dog weight was a diagnosis, but more so an 
observation. And by placing the dog on a new diet, Miss Ds dog gained weight as W 
wouldve expected. So, by the end of November, I think Miss Ds dog was in reasonable 
health. As there were no other symptoms, I dont think its fair to say the dogs weight in 
October was definitely a symptom of an underlying condition. It wasnt until March 2020, 
some four months later, that Miss Ds dog developed new symptoms that led to further 
investigations and a diagnosis. As there were new symptoms present in March, I think its 
most likely, on balance of probability, that this is when the dogs issues with the shunt began.
Because of this, I dont think RSI were fair to conclude that the symptoms began in October 
2019. I understand why they based this on the information N provided but N wouldve 
generated this report based on the medical notes they received. Crucially, the werent the 
vet who saw Miss Ds dog in October. This was W. So, I have placed greater weight on Ws 
opinion about the weight issues at that time. And as W have explained they dont think the 
symptoms were definitely linked to the shunt, I dont think RSI have acted fairly when 
declining the claim.Im also aware RSI have referred to information Miss D provided at the start of the policy. 
They believe Miss D shouldve made them aware of the weight issue. But Ive seen the 
questions they asked Miss D to answer. And the question they refer to states Have you ever 
taken {dog} to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations?. Miss D continued with 
the application process, answering no to this question. And I dont think she acted unfairly 
when doing so. When Miss D took her dog to W on 17 October 2019, it was for a routine 
vaccination. During this, a weight issue was identified. But this isnt the question RSI asked. 
If RSI had asked about any symptoms the dog was currently experiencing, then Id agree 
Miss D shouldve disclosed this. But this wasnt the case. I think Miss D took her dog to the 
vet for a vaccination so was reasonable to answer no to this question. So, I dont think this 
changes my decision about RSIs decline of the claim, and whether it was fair.
Putting things right
As I dont think RSI were fair to decline the claim, Ive then thought about what I think they 
need to do to put things right.
Had RSI acted fairly, I think theyd have assessed the claim without relying on the exclusion 
about pre-existing conditions. So, to put Miss D back in the position she wouldve been in, I 
think this is what they should do. 
And had RSI not relied on the exclusion, I dont think theyd have placed an exclusion 
surrounding the Portosystemic Shunt and Resulting Conditions from the policy inception 
date after reviewing the claim. So, I think this should be removed.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited, and I direct them to do the following:
Remove the Portosystemic Shunt and Resulting Conditions exclusion they added to 
the policy after reviewing Miss Ds claim
Re-assess Miss Ds claim without considering the Intra-heptic portosystemic shunt as 
a pre-existing condition.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman