DRN-4010704
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has handled 
a buildings insurance claim. 
References to RSA include the actions of its appointed agents who dealt with the claim.
What happened
The background is well known to the parties, so Ill just give a summary here:
Claim made in March 2020, but Mrs M was too unwell to respond to RSA further and 
the claim was closed.
Mrs M reinitiated contact in September 2021 and RSA appointed surveyors to attend, 
which they did in October 2021.
The report identified ground movement but that a further inspection was needed to 
establish the cause. Further inspections were carried out and RSA shared 
information / reports with Mrs M. 
Mrs M contacted RSA in the December and later asked RSA to liaise with her agent 
(a building contractor). 
In January 2022, further reports became available about tree work that was required 
and Mrs M was duly informed. RSA made several attempts to contact Mrs M and 
shared information with her agent.
In April Mrs M authorised tree works, which were completed in May. In June Mrs M 
asked when her contractor could complete the repair works and followed up again in 
July as shed heard nothing from RSA. 
In mid-July RSA apologised for delays in communicating with Mrs M and agreed to 
offer a cash settlement based on her contractors quotation. Mrs M was asked to 
provide an up-to-date quotation, which was sent in August, but it became apparent 
that Mrs Ms contractor had increased the repairs significantly as it had omitted 
several rooms from its initial quote.
No further progress was made by RSA and Mrs M contacted RSA on several 
occasions and in November Mrs M raised a complaint. RSA accepted poor 
communication and offered £450 compensation.
Our investigator explained why he thought RSAs offer was fair. Mrs M disagreed 
saying it didnt reflect the interest shed had to pay on the mortgage and that the 
delay stopped her selling the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are required to handle claims promptly and fairly. Whats apparent is that there were 
delays in progressing the claim. Some of the delays were due to RSA and this had an impact 
on Mrs M as she had to chase RSA for replies. And at a period when she suffered some ill 
health this intensified the distress.
I bear in mind that while there was a period of over two years, there were times where Mrs M 
couldnt engage with RSA even though it tried to contact her. Additionally, RSA instructed 
agents promptly and timely visits were made. RSA agreed Mrs Ms initial quotation for 
repairs and then the revised quotation albeit further information was reasonably required 
regarding the cost. 
There were periods in June and post-August where RSA let Mrs M down by a lack of 
communication. Overall, having thought carefully about what happened I think the impact 
was considerable. RSA had identified that Mrs M was vulnerable and several weeks were 
wasted. I am satisfied though that £450 compensation is a fair offer and reflective of the 
impact RSAs delays caused.
I have considered Mrs Ms points about the sale of the house and the interest payments on 
the mortgage. There was nothing to stop Mrs M putting the home on the market and 
mortgage lenders require interest to be paid on the sums they lend. From when the claim 
was initiated, even if there were no delays on RSAs part, the settlement would still have 
been delayed because Mrs Ms agent had to submit a revised quote as the initial one had 
omitted several items. So, for me, that limits the overall impact of the delay on the agreeing 
of a cash settlement. 
My final decision
I am aware that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £450 
compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay Mrs M £450 if it 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman