DRN-3763616
The complaint
Ms F complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) delayed inspecting storm damage to 
her roof and only paid part of the repair costs.
Ms F had buildings and contents insurance with Ageas. Her son, Mr F, brought the complaint 
on her behalf but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to Ms F throughout my decision.
What happened
Ms F claimed under her insurance after her roof was damaged during a named storm. Ageas 
accepted the claim and: 
asked Ms F to get two quotes for the repairs;
said it would cover the cost of the temporary roof covering, and
said it would arrange to inspect the roof.
Ms F could only get one quote because of the demand for storm repairs. In the meantime, 
further bad weather caused leaks inside her home through the temporary roof covering. Ms 
Fs adjoining neighbour was going ahead with their roof repair using the same roofer, so she 
had her permanent repair done at the same time.
Ageas attended to inspect the damage on the day the permanent repairs were finished, so it 
couldnt assess how much of the damage was caused by the storm. 
On receipt of the invoice Ms Fs roofer provided, Ageas made an offer to cash settle the 
claim. The invoice was for work costing over £7,000, but Ageas only offered around half that 
amount.
Ms F complained to Ageas. She said shed only had the permanent repair done because 
Ageas hadnt attended to inspect the roof and she was concerned about further damage. 
She thought it was reasonable for Ageas to pay the full cost, and pay her compensation for 
the delays and inconvenience she experienced.
Ageas explained that the cash settlement was less than the invoice because the 
replacement roof was better than the one Ms F had originally, and the roofer had charged for 
repairing elements of wear and tear. Ageas offered what it wouldve cost to do the work 
using its own contractors.
Ms F remained unhappy because she said Ageas didnt offer its own contractors and, by 
replacing the roof, shed saved Ageas the cost of repairing any further damage the bad 
weather mightve caused. 
Ageas said Ms F didnt say she was going ahead with the work, so it didnt have the chance 
to confirm what would or wouldnt be covered. Even so, Ageas reviewed the costs of the 
repairs and increased its offer to reflect the average cost of replacing the roof on a like for 
like basis. Ageas final offer was £5,300, which included £300 compensation for the delay 
inspecting the roof and the avoidable inconvenience. Ms F didnt think it was enough and 
asked for compensation closer to £4,000. Ageas didnt increase its offer, so Ms F brought 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed with Ms F that Ageas hadnt 
responded to the claim as quickly as it mightve done, so it was understandable that she 
went ahead with repairs when her neighbour did. But our investigator didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect Ageas to pay for a better roof than Ms F had before the incident. That 
was because Ageas didnt know Ms F had arranged a permanent replacement, so it didnt 
have an opportunity to confirm what the policy would cover. Our investigator acknowledged 
that Ageas couldve done more, sooner, so she thought compensation was warranted. 
However, our investigator thought Ageas had made a fair offer to cash settle the claim, and 
that its compensation of £300 was reasonable and in line with what this service might 
ordinarily award in circumstances such as these. Therefore, our investigator didnt propose 
any additional action to that already offered.
Ms F didnt agree and raised two specific points:
In the circumstances of her claim, Ageas shouldve arranged to inspect her roof as a 
matter of priority because her roof wasn't watertight in the middle of winter. She 
believes her roof wouldve remained unrepaired well into the following month if shed 
waited for Ageas to inspect it first.
Ms F wanted evidence that the cost of a like for like repair Ageas based its offer on 
reflected the cost at the time of high demand.
Overall, Ms F didnt think the compensation was enough and asked for reconsideration of 
the reasonableness of Ageas offer.
Our investigator provided Ms F with Ageas cost breakdown of replacing the roof on a like for 
like basis, but Ms F wanted a further review. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Ms F will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ive 
set out the circumstances of the complaint above, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision, commenting on specific evidence only where I think its necessary.
Firstly, theres no dispute about the claim for storm damage. Ageas accepted the claim, so 
the key issues here are whether the cash settlement was enough and in line with the policy, 
and whether the compensation adequately addresses the avoidable delays Ms F 
experienced.
Cash settlement
Ageas based its cash settlement on the average cost per square metre to replace a felt roof 
with a new felt roof. The policy provides cover for a like for like replacement, so the 
calculated cost wouldve been the limit of its liability. Ageas also calculated the cost of a 
single ply roof, which is what Ms F had in place of the felt roof. The cost was significantly 
more and provided a better standard of roof than the felt one. Therefore, Ms F paid for an 
element of betterment.Ms F doesnt think Ageas has provided evidence to show that it calculated the cost of repair 
on a like for like basis, and she thinks it wouldve cost more than Ageas paid. I note that 
Ageas tried to get a breakdown of costs from the roofer Ms F used so it could assess the 
cost against its own offer. But the evidence wasnt made available to it either directly by the 
roofer or by Ms F. In the absence of any evidence, its unreasonable to expect Ageas to 
calculate cost based on anything other than its own supplier costs. I see no reason to ask 
Ageas to revisit its cash settlement offer.
Ms F doesnt appear to dispute that the policy only covered repairs or replacement on a like 
for like basis. But she thinks Ageas shouldve told her before the work was done that it 
wouldnt cover a different type of roof. Under the heading of Making a Claim, the policy 
booklet confirms that Ms F should not:
 carry out any permanent repairs or dispose of any damaged items until we have been 
given the opportunity to inspect the damage.
Looking at the evidence, I havent identified anything to show that Ms F told Ageas she was 
going ahead with the work, so Ageas was still under the impression that she was waiting for 
it to authorise repairs.
I dont think Ms F acted inappropriately by having the roof replaced at the same time as her 
neighbour, but it wouldve been reasonable for her to contact Ageas to say what she was 
doing. Ageas could, then, have told Ms F what cover was available to her. 
Ms F also says that by replacing the roof, she mitigated the risk of further damage which 
wouldve cost Ageas even more. For that, she thinks Ageas should pay the full cost of the 
roof and further compensation.
I dont agree. Homeowners are expected to look after their property and, under the heading 
of General Exclusions, the policy confirms that policyholders should take action to prevent 
further damage.
2. Taking care of your home You and your family must take all necessary steps to prevent 
loss, damage, accidents or injury to your buildings and/or contents and to protect and 
maintain the buildings in a good condition and a good state of repair If you make a 
claim under your policy and we determine that the loss, damage, liability, cost or expense 
that led to the claim was caused or made worse by you failing to take necessary steps 
under this condition we may:  refuse to pay the claim; or  reduce the amount of any 
payment we make for the claim.  make a deduction for wear and tear 
So, Im satisfied that Ms F was simply taking action that any reasonable person might do 
under the policy terms and conditions to prevent further damage to her home. Theres no 
reason for Ageas to pay her more for looking after her home.Compensation
Ms F doesnt think £300 compensation is enough considering she saved Ageas the cost of 
further damage by replacing her roof, or for the delay which led to further damage.
Ageas inspected the roof 16 days after Ms F reported the damage. Id have expected a few 
days delay given the high demand, but I agree that 16 days was too long. Ageas hasnt 
disputed that, which is why it offered £300 by way of apology. But, in response to Ms Fs 
view that the repairs wouldnt have been done until the following month if shed waited, I 
cant assume that Ageas wouldve taken significantly longer to arrange repairs once it 
inspected the roof. Nor can I require it to pay more just because it didnt respond to Ms Fs 
claim as promptly as her neighbours insurer did.
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Ageas caused which was additional to 
that caused by the storm damage itself. Having done so, I cant reasonably say that a 
greater sum is warranted. Thats because the matter was taken out of Ageas control when 
Ms F had her roof replaced, so it didnt have the opportunity beyond the first two weeks to 
settle the claim.
I wont be asking Ageas to pay any more.
In summary, while there was some avoidable delay before Ageas inspected Ms Fs roof, it 
was already repaired when it attended so Ageas was restricted to cash settlement. Im 
satisfied that its final offer was based on a reasonable estimate of cost to replace on a like 
for like basis, with no evidence to show otherwise. Ageas offered £5,300 (in error it paid 
£5,330) which included the compensation plus a rounding up amount. The claim settlement 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I see no reason to ask Ageas to do any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman