DRN-2740799
The complaint
Miss L complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her 
irresponsibly.
Miss L entered into an insolvency arrangement (IVA) on 1 March 2018. Her Insolvency
Practitioner (IP) has expressed having an interest in the outcome of this complaint.
Miss L also complains about the way that she was treated by Mutual particularly after she
entered the IVA.
What happened
Using information from Mutual and from Miss Ls IP, here is a summary of the loan approved 
for Miss L. 
Loan Date Capital Settled Balance at IVA 
1 March
2018Term 
(weeks)Repay
1 15/06/13 £200 02/04/14 51 £5.49
2 01/03/14 £500 13/01/16 102 £7.59
3 26/03/14 £300 11/03/15 51 £8.23
4 08/11/14 £300 23/12/15 51 £8.23
5 14/03/15 £300 23/03/16 51 £8.23
6 19/09/15 £400 14/12/16 51 £10.98
7 21/11/15
HP £420
(rounded)08/05/19 £97 * 150 £4.47
8 16/01/16 £500 07/11/18 £174 102 £7.59
9 16/04/16
HP £700
(rounded)08/11/19 £258 * 150 £7.46
10 17/12/16 £500 07/11/18 £292 51 £13.73
*added to IVA December 2018
Loans 7 and 9 were different in that they were hire purchase agreements (HP) for two mobile
telephones for Miss Ls children. They were both for 150 week terms  almost three years.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. He had different information relating to the
HP agreements. He thought that Mutual should put things right for Miss L from Loan 4 to
Loan 10.
Mutual disagreed and I issued a provisional decision on 17 June 2021 the contents of which 
are lengthy and all of it is set out in the next section and in italics. 
Succinctly, I made a provisional decision to
- Uphold Miss Ls complaint for loans 4 to 6 and loans 8 and 10 and I outlined what 
Mutual should do to put things right (subject to the IVA arrangements); and 
- I acknowledged that loans 7 and 9 (the HP agreements) had been conceded by 
Mutual; and so, I made no further findings on those two loans; and
- I made a monetary award for distress and inconvenience for Miss L of £400; and
- I directed that amendments and deletions are made in respect of Miss Ls personal 
credit file.
Since that provisional decision was issued Mutual has said We accept this decision and will 
not challenge the findings. 
Miss L has expressed disquiet and nervousness about what might happen with Mutual after 
the complaint process has ended. And I have referred to this later in this decision, briefly. 
I have decided that its right to issue a final decision now especially after Mutuals agreement 
to my planned outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss L
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mutual was required to establish whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loans  not just
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
I have carefully reconsidered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
My provisional decision findings dated 17 June 2021
What has happened since our adjudicators opinion?
Since our adjudicators opinion, Mutual has sent to us many submissions to explain why it
does not agree with his view. I have reviewed them all. I have asked Mutual and Miss Ls IP
for additional information relating to the insolvency, collection of instalments and the HP
agreements.
What has become clear from explanations given to me by Miss Ls IP, is that the two HP
agreements were not originally included in the IVA in March 2018. These were to purchase
two telephones for Miss Ls children. Miss L says that despite being short of money, her
agent suggested that these be purchased as Christmas presents for the two children.
Miss Ls IP, upon hearing that she was continuing to pay towards these agreements after
March 2018 (IVA entry date) and that the telephones were broken, treated them as
unsecured loans and invited Mutual to resubmit a Proof of Debt form to include them. I have
seen a copy of that form which the IP has said it received in May 2019, completed by
Mutuals DMA Administrator, which cites the HP agreements (21 November 2015 and
16 April 2016) with a combined outstanding balance of £355.48.
I asked for details relating to the repayment history on the loans around that time and the
details I have been sent by Mutual show me that:
- from the 9th week of the first quarter of 2018 Mutual collected for the HP 
agreements, although sometimes no payments were made by Miss L; and
- Mutual has explained that it was content to receive smaller payments as it knew of
the IVA situation; and
- during the second and third quarter periods of 2018, payments were made for some
weeks which I calculate to be until late June 2018; and
- some payments were made in the fourth quarter of 2018 and ceased in 
November 2018. This cessation has been confirmed by Mutual.
My understanding from Miss Ls IP is that it was likely correct that Mutual was able to
continue to gather payments from Miss L on the HP agreements in 2018 as Miss L had not
included them in her list to the IP of the debts she held with Mutual.
But the position changed in December 2018 when the IP has explained to me that she wrote
to Mutual to say that they were to be included in the IVA as unsecured debts. Mutual has
confirmed that the payments for the HP agreements ceased around November 2018. So,
because of the information I have gathered, I do not think it was incorrect for Mutual to
continue to seek payment on two outstanding HP loans after 1 March 2018. However, I do make some provisional findings on the overall situation presented to me.
Miss L has described being very upset and not thinking straight and that the Mutual
collections in 2018 were adding to that distress. Miss L has said in her complaint form to us
that she did not think that Mutual was treating her fairly. Mutual has a copy of that form and
rather than spell out some of the issues in a published decision, I refer Mutual to it. And on
current evidence I think that Mutual did not treat her fairly in all the circumstances. A
traumatic event had occurred before Miss L entered the IVA. She describes that the help she
received from her father and her IP after that saved her life. So, without going into details,
I do want both parties to know that I am aware of the chronology of events and Ive thought
about it all carefully.
So far as the collection on the HP agreements is concerned, I realise that officially Mutual
likely was able to continue to ask for them. But I question the judgment surrounding that it
did pursue her for them in view of Miss Ls circumstances  personal and financial  during
2018. She was in an IVA and had suffered a traumatic event. In Mutuals submissions to us
it has said:
The agents build up an intimate understanding and
knowledge of the customers by calling on them and
interacting with them on a weekly basis.
As is often is advocated by home collected credit firms, Mutual being no different, the weekly
visits to make the collections gave them a unique insight into a customers life and
circumstances. I think its highly likely any agent acting for Mutual, especially one who had
been involved for some time, would have been able to pick up on the general position of the
customer.
Here I do think that Miss L would have been in a traumatised state, as she describes, and
I question the judgment of Mutual continuing to pursue Miss L for payments when it knew of
the IVA situation in relation to her other financial agreements. It would be obvious, in my
view, that a person in an IVA has no money at all and has had to take that significant step
into insolvency to carry on. Miss L has described hiding away, becoming isolated and unsure
what to do, feeling threatened by the Mutual agent, and whether the agents behaviour did
amount to that  I am not in a position to judge. But overall it does appear to me that it was
insensitive of Mutual and led to additional upset and distress after what had already been a
deeply upsetting period in Miss Ls life. And I think that Mutuals agents had unique access
to see Miss L in her home surroundings and therefore I think that this could have been
handled differently.
Provisionally I have decided to award Miss L some compensation for distress and
inconvenience for the fact that these collections continued in 2018. I am planning that it be
£300 as this distress lasted for most of 2018.
Added to which, recently (February 2021) Miss L received a letter demanding payment for
£0.50. It threatened a default would be registered in fourteen days and said that court
proceedings might follow. I accept that Mutual is correct that this February 2021 letter was
sent to Miss L before it knew she had referred her complaint to this Service. But that is only
part of the picture.
I asked Mutual about this letter sent in February 2021 and it has explained:
On the 26/06/2020 we received IVA dividends from the IVA of £0.28 and £0.22.
Because of the IVA it looks like our system picked up the £0.50 balance of IVA 
dividend payments made for the letter.This last sentence does not make complete sense, but the import from Mutual is that the
system picked up something inaccurately and issued a default letter to Miss L.
The letters inaccuracy and tone are striking considering Mutuals own DMA Administrator
had submitted the form to the IP to include these HP loans within the IVA. And Mutual has
explained that it received some dividends for loans in the IVA  its not clear which. I think
that this February 2021 letter was sent to Miss L by mistake due to some inaccurate
administration within Mutual and was wholly unnecessary. And I say this because by this
time Mutual would have known that the HP agreements were included in the IVA.
However, Miss Ls reaction when she sent it to us expressing real concern demonstrates to
me the impact this letter had on her. And I think that this could have been avoided.
Im a little bit worried because mutual society has written to me again saying they are
taking serious steps. Does that mean they are going to come to my house again
please? Im too scared to ask them for the dates of my loans because the woman
was horrible to me before when I started the IVA plan and they came round saying I
still had to pay. I dont even understand this letter they sent me now but Im afraid
they are going to come back here.
So, the compensation for the distress and inconvenience includes an additional sum of £100
to reflect the impact on her having received that February 2021 letter.
As Miss L is in an IVA, her IP will need to know about all monies paid to her as a result of
this complaint, and it may be that the £400 compensation monies for distress and
inconvenience may be treated differently within the IVA terms. Its a matter for Miss L and
her IP to clarify.
Concession by Mutual  Loans 7 and 9 
I also acknowledge, that Mutual has agreed to the following:
Having looked at the account and given the confusion of the letter and the delay in 
us receiving notification from FOS about the complaint, we can agree that we will no
longer pursue payments on the two Hire Purchase agreements. We will not enforce
our repossession rights meaning the customer can keep the goods despite not
having paid the full amount owed for them.
Considering this then the IP needs to be informed that effectively these agreements are no
longer an issue for Miss L. And my understanding is that the items being purchased through
the HP agreements have been lost/broken and so this concession by Mutual alleviates the
concern Miss L may have had in relation to these items.
And as this concession has been given in relation to the two HP agreements, for which I am
sure Miss L will be grateful, I have provisionally decided not to make any findings in relation
to those two loans.
However, at the time that the HP agreements were being approved for Miss L, they were
part of the sequential lending which is outlined by the loan table set out at the beginning of
this provisional decision. So, I do think they are relevant when reviewing the lending 
relationship between Miss L and Mutual as a whole.The irresponsible lending complaint
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our general
approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail
about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points and
issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published
documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the
provision of graphs to compare its repayments with high cost short term credit lenders.
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions.
Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Miss L circumstances or complaint I have
referred to them where necessary. Some of which I have already addressed earlier in this
provisional decision.
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a
payday loan, that does not make them a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer.
And, as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has
not said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
A part of Mutuals submissions on Miss Ls complaint about which I disagree is that it has
said that there was no occurrence of multiple loans in one year and yet Mutual has supplied
a coloured chart which shows that Miss L took multiple overlapping loans (page 5 of 18 of its
submissions documents to this Service).
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Miss L, with a view to seeing
if there was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt
have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Miss Ls case, I think that this
point was reached by loan 4. I explain why I think this in the following paragraphs.
Mutual has said that a good repayment record indicated that there was no financial difficulty
and that records of past repayment assisted in the decision making for Mutual to lend more.
Past repayment record may be of some use but inevitably does not give the whole picture
and if  as is often the case - people in debt borrow to repay loans, then Id expect a
professional lender to have questioned that element and double checked it, especially after
seventeen months of being in debt as Miss L was when she applied for loan 4. 
Added to which, information provided by Miss L shows that she had three loans outstanding 
with another home-credit provider by the time she was applying for loan 4. And when the 
Mutual loan 4 was approved still she had loans 2 and 3 with Mutual outstanding. So that 
would have left her with six home-credit loans to service.
The overlapping nature of some of the loans meant that her weekly repayment sums had
increased. Borrowing to repay debt is a clear indication of unsustainability.So, at the point at which loan 4 was approved, Miss L was already showing signs of
additional overlapping of loans, increase in weekly payment commitments with Mutual, likely
borrowing to repay earlier loans, and loan 4 was larger than loan 1.
Miss L didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. The pattern I have
described earlier repeated itself all the way through to when Miss L applied for Loan 10 in
December 2016. At that point she had two long term HP loans (three years each) and still
had loan 8 outstanding. And I think its highly likely that she used the capital from loan 10 to
repay loan 6 (indirectly) as she would have had a financial hole left to fill having paid it off.
Mutual disagrees with this idea of borrowers having to borrow to fill a previous vacuum
created by repayments, but here is a good example of that likely having occurred.
The limited business information file that Mutual has sent us does have some detail on the
application form for loan 10. It shows that the agent had noted as follows:
Latest DEF Sept 16 + 1 DELQ £1660 loan Nov 2016 2 CCJs £488 Feb + Dec 16
These notes can be interpreted to read that the agent knew of a defaulted account, a
delinquent account and another loan plus two County Court Judgments (CCJs) when Miss L
applied for loan 10. And as I have already explained, in December 2016 she would have had
three outstanding loans with another home credit provider. And Mutual would have been
aware of the two HP loans she was paying back as well.
Mutual has referred to having done credit checks in the final response letter it sent to her in
June 2020, but no copies of these have been sent. Save that the one credit search Mutual
says was carried out for the last loan is referred to and summarised in the submissions
document sent to this Service. That summary is that the credit search showed no concerns
and no CCJs (page 3 of 18 of the submissions sent to this Service). Considering the agents
notes in December 2016 this appears to be incorrect. Mutual has time to send us copies of
its credit search results before the reply date for this provisional decision.
I have provisionally decided that Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not
that Miss Ls indebtedness was unsustainable.
I think that Miss L lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 4
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ls indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Miss L borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 6, loan 8 and loan 10 and Ill go on
to set out what Mutual should do to put things right. Loans 7 and 9 (the HP agreements) 
have been conceded by Mutual.
The current position 
I have read Miss Ls response to my provisional decision carefully. The overall message 
I have received is that she wants there to be a resolution and she does not wish any of 
Mutuals agents or representatives to come back to her home again. Our adjudicator has 
explained that this is not likely to happen. Miss L must liaise with her IP going forward.So, it seems to me that issuing a final decision now will bring a welcome resolution to both 
parties, especially in light of Mutuals agreement to accept all the findings in my provisional 
decision. So, I see no reason to depart from them, and they are repeated here as my final 
decision findings. 
And Mutuals acceptance of those findings includes a confirmation of its concession in 
relation to loans 7 and 9  the two HP agreements. Miss Ls IP needs to be informed of this. 
I uphold Miss Ls complaint in part and award a distress and inconvenience payment of 
£400. 
Kerrigan Judgment
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number
of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower 
amount than this to Miss L, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably. 
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different
question, with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship being unfair. But the court in this
judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of short
term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges conclusions about a
differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be
also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms L from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms L may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a realand substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss L in a
compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Ms L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has
done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms L loans 4 to 6 and loans 8 and 10. It has conceded in 
relation to Loans 7 and 9. 
My understanding is that these loans would be treated as having no outstanding balances as
they are all within the IVA. I note that the IP for Miss L has expressed an interest in the
redress arising out of this complaint.
I reiterate what I have said earlier about the potential for the IP to treat the distress and
inconvenience payment differently to the redress calculated after following the steps below. 
I leave that to the IP to advise Miss L. 
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss L on loans 4 
to 6, loans 8 and 10 towards interest, fees and charges on these loans, including 
payments made to a third party where applicable, but not including anything already 
refunded; and
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C) Mutual should pay Miss L (directed through her IP) the total of A plus B; and
D) the overall pattern of Miss Ls borrowing for loans 4 to 6, and loans 8 and 10 means 
any information recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these 
loans entirely from Miss Ls credit file.
E) Pay to Miss L a distress and inconvenience payment of £300 for the upset in 2018 
when Miss L was paying for the HP loans despite being in an IVA and therefore very 
short of money, and £100 for the impact of the February 2021 letter.
*HMRC requires Mutual to take off tax from this interest. If Miss L asks Mutual for a 
certificate to show how much tax its taken off, Mutual should provide this.
 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ls complaint in part, award her some distress and inconvenience money, and 
direct that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman