DRN-2563832
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr M had a vehicle insured on a policy under which Ageas was responsible 
for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Ageas, I include claims-handlers and others insofar 
as I hold Ageas responsible for their actions.
On 8 October 2017, Mr Ms vehicle and a third partys were involved in a collision at a 
roundabout. 
Later, Ageas settled the claim of the third party. Ageas recorded a fault claim against Mr M. 
He complained to Ageas that he hadnt been at fault.
Ageas wrote a final response dated 18 February 2020 turning down the complaint. Unhappy 
with that, Mr M brought his complaint to us on 11 August 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Ageas had done anything wrong by settling the claim.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
His emails on 3 August 2020 refuted many of the points in the Ageas final response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with 
a claim involving a third party. Mr Ms policy with Ageas contained the following term:
We may investigate the claim, take over and conduct the legal action in your name.
The effect of such a term is that  on a question of how to deal with a third partys claim  
the view of Ageas would prevail over the view of Mr M.
I will consider whether Ageas applied that policy term fairly. Unlike a court, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt hear from both drivers and decide the extent to which either of 
them is responsible for causing damage or injury.
Im satisfied that Ageas took into account Mr Ms detailed report of the accident. What had 
happened mustve been shocking for Mr M and his wife, who was with him.
Mr M said that the third party had been speeding. Im satisfied that Ageas noted his evidence 
that the third party vehicle travelled about 90 feet after the accident before being stopped by 
a stream and some railings.
But Ageas established that there was no available CCTV recording. It took the view that the 
third partys speed would be difficult to prove. 
Ageas placed more weight on the positions and manoeuvres of the vehicles. 
Im satisfied that Ageas took into account Mr Ms report that the third party clipped Mr M from 
his right side. Ageas noted the nature and location of the damage to each vehicle. 
Ageas instructed solicitors to advise in connection with the third partys claim
In one of his emails dated 3 August 2020, Mr M said the following:
The Highway Code guide on rights at roundabouts is somewhat imprecise as it 
states giving away to vehicles from the right .... but this should only apply to those 
vehicles that are actually on the roundabout or those vehicles on your right stationary 
and waiting to enter the roundabout. Those vehicles on your right that enter a 
roundabout at speed and do not stop and check their rights of entry have disregarded 
the Highway Code
Ageas had taken a different view of the Highway Code provisions for roundabouts. 
Ageas had decided that  if it allowed the third partys claim to proceed to trial  there would 
be a high risk that a judge would find Mr M liable. So - rather than incur that risk and the 
associated costs  Ageas had decided it would settle the third partys claim.
I appreciate that the record of a fault claim is likely to have had an adverse effect on Mr Ms 
insurance premiums in the years after the accident. 
Nevertheless, I dont find that Ageas applied the policy term unfairly or unreasonably in Mr 
Ms case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman