DRN-2385873
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined his request to extend his 
mortgage term. 
What happened
Mr A took out a 20-year mortgage with another lender in 2002. The mortgage was 
transferred to Nationwide in 2009 and has been on an interest only basis while its been with 
Nationwide. Mr A made overpayments and his mortgage balance is about £20,000. 
In 2019 Mr A applied to extend the term of his mortgage and switch to a repayment basis. 
He also wanted to borrow back £20,000 to extend his lease. Nationwide didnt agree to the 
term extension or offer Mr A a retirement interest only mortgage (known as a RIO). It 
assessed both options as unaffordable. Mr As income is from his flexible pension and didnt 
meet Nationwides lending criteria.
Our investigator said Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly. It considered Mr As request fairly and 
in accordance with rules on mortgage regulation. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said he has sufficient assets to repay the mortgage, and can withdraw 
money from his flexible pension to meet monthly payments. He wants to extend the term as 
hell have to pay tax if he withdraws more money to repay the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were significant changes to the rules on mortgage lending in 2014, following the 
mortgage market review. The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in 
its rules that it expects stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only 
mortgages, repayment strategy before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. There 
are exceptions to this which dont change the outcome here.
It seems the terms of Mr As mortgage allow him to borrow back overpayments to his 
mortgage account. So Nationwide didnt have to agree to vary the mortgage to allow this. 
Mr A was able to borrow back funds in late 2019. 
However, changing the repayment method or extending the term would be a variation of 
Mr As mortgage. So the rules on mortgage regulation require Nationwide to do an 
affordability assessment. And Nationwide had to do an affordability assessment before 
offering a RIO to Mr A as this would be an offer of a new mortgage.
Nationwide assessed the term extension as unaffordable based on the income Mr A had 
been taking from his pension. It says Mr A would be able to afford monthly repayments 
based on what he told it about being able to withdraw a higher income from his flexible 
pension. But Mr A didnt provide evidence to support what hed said about this. I dont think it 
was unfair for Nationwide to ask for this evidence, or to decline to extend the term of Mr As 
mortgage without it.
Mr A didnt meet Nationwides affordability requirements for a RIO. RIOs are a new type of 
mortgage for borrowers in later life. Mr As form of income  from a flexible pension  didnt 
meet Nationwides criteria for a RIO. I know Mr A doesnt agree with this, but Nationwide is 
entitled to have a policy about how it treats different forms of income. I dont think it applied 
its policy unfairly here.
Mr A asked our investigator to contact his financial adviser, to confirm what hed said about 
the term extension being affordable. But I dont think thats the real issue here. 
Mr A made it clear he has assets and hes able to repay the mortgage. He says he can 
withdraw more money from his flexible pension to meet payments, but prefers to keep 
withdrawals at a level where he doesnt pay tax. 
Mr A borrowed the money and he does have to repay it. Fairness suggests, as a starting 
point, he does this when the term expires  as he agreed to do when he took out the 
mortgage. In effect, Mr A is now asking Nationwide to wait for its money, not because he 
cant repay it but because this would fit better with his tax planning. 
I think Nationwide considered Mr As applications fairly. Theres nothing to suggest it 
wouldnt have accommodated Mr As requests if it had been reasonably able to do so. But 
Nationwide would have to waive its lending criteria to extend Mr As mortgage term or offer a 
RIO. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Nationwide to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this mortgage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman