DRN-2899171
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains about problems settling a savings account with Goldman 
Sachs International Bank trading as Marcus by Goldman Sachs (Marcus). 
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs C, acting as one of the executors of the estate of Mr S, sent Marcus a 
bereavement form with instructions on how to settle a savings account. The form asked 
Marcus to send the funds to a bank account that was linked with the late Mr S savings 
account. Marcus closed the savings account on 30 July 2019 and attempted to transfer the 
funds it held to the nominated account. 
Mrs C has told us the account the funds were sent to had been frozen by the bank account 
provider. So the funds were returned to Marcus and placed in a holding account that didnt 
pay interest. The executors of the estate of Mr S were asked to provide a Grant of Probate 
so the funds could be sent in a cheque made out in their names. 
At the beginning of June 2020 Marcus wrote to the executors to say it would be in touch 
about settling the account within seven days. But Mrs C didnt hear from Marcus so called it 
on 19 Jun 2020 and was told a cheque would be sent shortly. After another call from Mrs C, 
Marcus sent a cheque for the funds held in the late Mr S savings account on 25 June 2020. 
Mrs C contacted Marcus again a couple of weeks later and asked for a closing statement 
and tax certificates. Marcus said there is no automatic process for sending this information 
after the death of a customer. Tax certificates for the years ending April 2019 and April 2020 
were sent to Mrs C. The closing statement showed interest stopped accruing on 30 July 
2019. Marcus also included £1,608.89 which represented the interest the funds wouldve 
received between 30 July 2019 and 19 June 2020, when the cheque was sent. 
Marcus has issued various complaint responses and accepts that some of the service 
provided shouldve been better. Marcus agreed Mrs C wasnt always contacted as promised. 
Marcus offered the executors £75 and apologised. 
Mrs C referred the estate of Mr S complain to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. They thought Marcus had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. In the investigators findings, they explained Marcus had told us the £1,608.89 
payment added to the capital was paid as a goodwill gesture rather than as interest. 
Mrs C asked to appeal and said Marcus still hadnt sent tax certificates for the full period. 
Mrs C also said the executors had reported the £1,608.89 payment to HMRC as taxable 
interest but wouldnt have needed to do so if itd been made clear it was made as a gesture 
of goodwill. Mrs C asked to appeal, so the estate of Mr S complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background to this complaint because all parties 
broadly agree about the order of key events. Marcus says it closed the original interest 
bearing account on 30 July 2019 when it complied with the instructions provided by Mrs C in 
the bereavement form and transferred the savings to the linked account. Once the account 
was closed, Marcus says it couldnt be reopened. So from that point, the capital was placed 
in a non interest bearing holding account until settlement was possible. 
Mrs C has complained at the approach of the bereavement form and says Marcus shouldve 
been aware the late Mr S linked account was frozen by his banking provider. But not all 
businesses operate in the same way. I can see Marcus acted in line with its instructions 
when it tried to send the funds held to the linked account so Im unable to agree it made a 
mistake at the end of July 2019. 
As Ive said above, the transfer was returned by the linked account provider shortly after it 
was sent by Marcus. But at that point, the original savings account had been closed. So it 
wasnt possible to simply put the funds back into it. As a result, Marcus placed the funds in a 
holding account, awaiting receipt of the Grant of Probate. 
The Grant of Probate and closure instructions were received by Marcus at the beginning of 
June 2019. I can see Marcus failed to contact Mrs C about the closure process as promised. 
The account was ultimately closed by Marcus on 19 June 2020. On that date, Marcus 
calculated the amount of interest the funds wouldve received if they had remained in the 
savings account and added an additional £1,608.89 to the total balance paid. 
In its submissions to this service, Marcus has advised the additional £1,608.89 was paid as 
a gesture of goodwill, in recognition of the interest the late Mr S savings wouldve received if 
theyd remained in the savings account. But Mrs C has explained the estate paid tax on the 
basis it received interest of £1,608.89 (which is a taxable income) rather than a gesture of 
goodwill (which is not taxable). 
Our investigator recently asked Mrs C to provide evidence that the estate had paid tax on 
the £1,608.89 Marcus applied. Mrs C sent us some redacted letters dealing with tax paid by 
the estate, but they dont show what (if any) tax was paid on the £1,608.89 addition Marcus 
applied to the capital. So its not possible for me to say with certainty what the estate paid, or 
that there is evidence of a specific loss that it would be fair for me to tell Marcus it needs to 
pay here. 
I also think its reasonable to note that, had the original savings account not been closed on 
30 July 2019 and interest continued to accrue, it wouldve always been a taxable income. So 
whilst I understand Mrs Cs concern that Marcus has said the £1,608.89 was paid as a 
gesture of goodwill, I havent found the approach taken led a loss. The estates position is 
broadly in the same place it wouldve been in, if the original account had remained open. I 
think Marcus has acted fairly in circumstances of this case.
Mrs C has told us Marcus still hasnt sent her the necessary tax certificates. But Marcus has 
sent tax certificates covering the period until it closed the original savings account. Marcus 
has also provided a closing statement up until 30 July 2019. From that point onwards, 
Marcus has explained the funds were placed in a holding account so no statement is 
available. But Marcus has confirmed it calculated the £1,608.89 it applied to the capital by 
interest in line with the original savings account for a period of 325 days. Im satisfied Marcus 
has provided the necessary information in this case. I agree there have been some delays and that Marcus didnt always contact the executors of 
Mr S estate as agreed. At times the service shouldve been better. I can see the situation 
was inconvenient for Mrs C when trying to correspond with Marcus. But I think Marcus offer 
of £75 compensation fairly reflects the delays and service issues Mrs C has highlighted. In 
my view, £75 is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but I agree with the investigators view that Marcus has dealt 
with this complaint fairly. Im satisfied Marcus has provided the estate of Mr S with the 
necessary information regarding how the account was settled. Its clear the initial instruction 
to pay the late Mr S savings into the linked account caused some issues. But Marcus made 
a payment to cover missed interest that puts the estate of Mr S back into the position it 
wouldve been in had the original account remained open. As Im satisfied Marcus has dealt 
with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action or increase the award.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because the business has already made an 
offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman