DRN-2619223
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded him after he reported falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Between May and August 2019 Mr S made payments totaling £4,850 to a furniture 
store Ill refer to as W. 
A number of items were selected following visits to a showroom and an employee of 
W visiting Mr S home to measure up. 
A final payment of £2,200 was due on delivery of the items.
But the items never arrived. Mr S was given various reasons for the furniture not 
arriving by the promised date. Eventually, in October 2019, W seemed to close down 
without having delivered the furniture and with no refund to Mr S.
Mr S reported what had happened to Barclays and said hed been scammed.
Barclays investigated but said it wasnt able to help. It said it viewed what had 
happened as a dispute between buyer and seller.
It did take Barclays a long time to deal with the matter. And it recognized that it didnt 
actually raise Mr S concerns with the receiving bank as quickly as it should have, 
with a delay of a month. And so it said itd pay Mr S compensation of £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr S was unhappy with the banks response and so brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but didnt recommend Mr S 
complaint be upheld. She thought Barclays had acted fairly and reasonably in 
identifying the dispute between Mr S and the W as a civil one. She didnt think there 
was enough evidence to say that Mr S had been the victim of a scam.
She thought the banks offer of £400 for the misinformation and delays on its part 
represented fair and reasonable compensation.
Mr S was unhappy with that answer and so the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Ive no doubt that Mr S has lost out as a result of his dealings with W. Hes clearly been 
treated badly and hasnt received the goods he paid for. It even seems that W has been 
disingenuous in terms of saying the items purchased were due to be shipped and delivered 
at various times. But thats not enough for me to say Mr S has been the victim of a scam, or 
that W was acting with the intent to defraud him at the point he made the payments to it.
W was clearly a legitimately registered business, appearing on Companies House as one 
would expect. And it seems to have occupied a number of premises at different addresses. 
Those premises were substantial buildings, with the kind of branding and signage youd 
expect to see from a legitimate enterprise. They were also stocked with items for sale and 
there was an online presence for the company. Its also the case that an employee of the 
company came to Mr S home to measure up for the furniture. All of which point to the 
company being a legitimate, going concern at the time. 
I cant say why W reneged on the contract it had with Mr S. Judging from the reviews and 
communication with other customers that Mr S has presented to us, it seems a lot of other 
people have lost out as a result of the furniture companys actions. But I dont have 
sufficient, persuasive evidence to say that Mr S has been the victim of a scam, as opposed 
to the company simply having failed.
That is the position the bank took and its why it said it couldnt help Mr S. Given what Ive 
seen, I believe that was a fair and reasonable position in the circumstances. I cant see it 
had any means by which to recover his money or otherwise refund him.
It is the case that Barclays said it would raise a scam claim. I can see how this would have 
given Mr S hope that he would get his money back. And I can also see how it would have 
been very disappointing to then be told the bank didnt view what had happened as a scam. 
That, combined with the delay in getting Mr S an answer, has led to the bank paying £400 in 
compensation. I find that to be a fair and reasonable settlement of the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman