DRN-4094568
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W complains about poor claim handling and an unfair valuation by 
The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society (NFU), following the total loss of its 
vehicle due to an accident, under its commercial motor insurance policy.    
What happened
In June 2022 Ws vehicle was involved in an accident. This caused extensive damage. W 
made a claim to NFU, which it accepted under Ws policy. W sent photos of the damage on 
request from NFU. It says there was some difficulty in doing this due to its system limitations 
on file size. W says photos had to be sent more than once. 
W says the standard of communication was poor. Its policy was due to renew shortly after 
the accident. It queried whether these premiums would be refunded whilst the vehicle was 
off the road and received incorrect information that this premium had to be paid. W says 
NFUs claim handling caused delays. It was then told the vehicle was a total loss and offered 
£7,500 at the end of June 2022. 
W asked NFU to reconsider as it felt this was a very low valuation. It says after more 
discussion, which caused further delays, NFU agreed to physically inspect the vehicle. An 
increased offer for £12,000 was subsequently confirmed ten days later. W says a hire 
vehicle was supplied. But NFUs agent wanted this back before the claim was settled, which 
wouldve meant W was unable to carry out its work. W accepted the settlement but felt 
forced to do so because of the threat to take away the hire vehicle. 
W says the market value of the vehicle is higher than offered, which it based on vehicles it 
found advertised for sale. It says the vehicle had been recently serviced and MOTd, which 
wasnt taken into consideration in NFUs valuation. 
In its complaint response NFU offered W £250. It agreed its initial valuation was too low, 
which caused a delay in settling the claim. It also agreed that W had to send photos of the 
damage several times due to its agent not advising the correct process. In addition, its 
agents kept calling W despite its instructions for communication to be sent by email. NFU 
concedes that its agent gave incorrect advice about keeping the vehicle on cover. It says W 
couldve chosen to declare its vehicle under a Statutory Off-Road Notification (SORN).  
NFU says the hire vehicle was supplied by a credit hire company that provides a comparable 
hire vehicle in the event of a non-fault claim. It says this company has to justify the costs it 
incurs that it will later claim back from the third-party insurer. It says when the vehicle was 
determined a total loss a hire vehicle will usually be requested back. This is because the 
claim has been settled with a payment the insured can use to buy another vehicle. 
W didnt agree with NFUs view of its complaint and asked our service to consider the 
matter. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought NFUs offer of £250 
compensation was fair to acknowledge the failings identified. He didnt think there was 
reason to require a further payment. Our investigator says NFU had valued the vehicle 
according to industry standards and hed found no indication that this was unreasonable. 
W didnt accept our investigators findings. Because an agreement couldnt be reached the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Ws complaint. Let me explain. 
I can understand that W wants the best offer it can get following the total loss of its vehicle. I 
note its comments that it cant find a like-for-like replacement for NFUs offer. But having 
read the policy terms, it doesnt provide for a like-for-like replacement. The policy provides 
the market value in the case of a total loss. This is confirmed in the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) where it says:
If your vehicle is stolen or written off, we will pay the market value or the amount shown on 
your policy schedule, whichever is less.
The policy booklet defines market value as:
The amount it would cost to replace the VEHICLE (or TRAILER) with one of the same 
make, model, specification, age and condition. 
Our service doesnt provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we 
obtain valuations from the motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Ive looked at the engineers assessment of the work needed to repair Ws vehicle. I can see 
the repair costs were estimated to be in excess of £12,000. The engineer determined the 
vehicle was a category-S total loss, meaning it could legally be repaired and returned to the 
road. But in this case NFU decided not to carry out repairs due to the cost. I dont think 
NFUs decision to treat Ws vehicle as a total loss was unreasonable given the cost of 
repairs, compared with the estimated value of the vehicle.  
I note W refers to vehicles advertised for sale that cost more than NFUs settlement offer. 
However, we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.
I looked at the valuation our investigator obtained to see how he established that NFUs 
settlement offer was fair. I can see he used the same make, model, mileage, age, and date 
of loss. The valuation came to far less than the offer NFU made. I can see that the business 
also used the correct information when obtaining valuations. The highest of these came to 
£11,132. However, NFUs engineer valued Ws vehicle at £12,000, which is the settlement 
payment it offered. 
We tried to obtain further valuations from different industry trade guides, but none were able 
to provide a valuation. Ive thought about Ws comments that the vehicle had new tyres and 
batteries, which werent considered within NFUs valuation. I acknowledge Ws point, but these items would expect to be replaced as part of ongoing maintenance of the vehicle. This 
wouldnt impact on its valuation. 
Valuing second-hand vehicles isnt an exact science so Id expect there to be a range of 
values where different trade guides are used. From what Ive seen, NFU offered in excess of 
the market value that was established through the available trade guide valuations. Based 
on this I cant reasonably conclude that the settlement payment it offered was unfair.  
Ive thought about Ws reference to NFUs poor claim handling. Theres no dispute from NFU 
that it failed to act on Ws instructions to make contact by email not by phone. W spent 
additional time making contact because of this. This resulted in delays. This is on top of the 
time it spent providing duplicate photos due to NFUs agents incorrect advice. The delay 
arriving at the total loss decision was caused by an incorrect valuation arranged by NFU. 
Again, this resulted in W spending time contacting NFU. This delayed it having the funds 
available to be able to purchase a replacement vehicle. 
In these circumstances I think £250 compensation is fair compensation for the work this 
entailed. As NFU has already offered this amount I wont ask it to pay more.
I asked NFU what W had been charged in premiums as a result of the advice it gave about 
continuing cover. It says W couldve obtained a SORN in which case ongoing insurance 
cover wouldnt have been necessary. It says it isnt aware that W obtained this. I note NFUs 
comments that Ws policy also covered it for the hire vehicle it was using. 
NFU has provided transcripts of two calls where W discussed with its agent whether 
continuing insurance cover was needed. The transcripts show that a SORN was discussed. 
they show NFU advised the vehicle wouldve required cover until it had been declared a total 
loss. And highlights that the policy renewal was just over a week after the loss date. I 
acknowledge NFUs comments that at this point W was arranging an estimate for repairs. 
Also, that the total loss decision was made after the policy renewal date.
Having considered this information, W couldve obtained a SORN for its vehicle, which would 
have avoided the need for insurance. But as NFU points out, its policy was covering the hire 
vehicle and any other damage that couldve occurred to its vehicle prior to the claim being 
settled. 
In summary I dont think NFU treated W fairly due to its delays and incorrect valuation offer. 
But I think its revised offer was fair, and its offer of compensation is reasonable to 
acknowledge the additional work it created for W. I dont think W incurred a loss as a result 
of it continuing its insurance cover, for the reasons discussed. Because of this I cant fairly 
ask NFU to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman