DRN-2667481
The complaint
Mr L complains that a finance agreement he entered into with Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Finance, was mis-sold to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant legislation explains that the finance company are liable for what is said by the 
dealership, who brokered the credit agreement, before that agreement is entered into. It also 
explains that the finance should not have been misrepresented to Mr L. So, if he was told 
something that was false and if that led him to enter an agreement he would not have 
otherwise entered into, I would tell VWFS to put things right for him.
I understand Mr L says he was persuaded to take out a finance agreement with a low and 
unrepresentative mileage and that he was promised there would be no negative equity in his 
car. But the dealership dispute Mr Ls version of events, and the evidence I have persuades 
me that it is more likely Mr L was aware of the impact of the terms of the finance agreement 
and that he agreed to them. That evidence is as follows:
Mr L signed the finance agreement and I think its reasonable to suggest he had a 
responsibility to check it and that his signature suggested he agreed to its contents;
the Pre-Contract Explanations Checklist is also signed by Mr L and he has therefore 
confirmed that the finance was explained to him;
the dealership have explained that Mr L was a car sales executive with another 
dealership and Mr L hasnt disputed that. I think hed therefore be more likely to 
understand credit agreements used to finance vehicles and have been well equipped 
to ask questions if he was unhappy with what was being proposed;
I understand Mr L says he was never expecting to cover only 5,000 miles per year 
and that he didnt do so when he was financing his last car. By financing this 
agreement with a lower mileage, he will have benefited from lower monthly 
instalments, but I think it would be unreasonable to suggest the charges he now 
faces are a result of mis-selling. I think there is evidence here that Mr L would have 
been adequately equipped to make an informed decision and I dont think it would be 
fair to ask VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman