DRN-3835661
The complaint
Mr B complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) unfairly applied a CIFAS fraud marker against 
him and closed his account. 
What happened
In June 2021, Monzo restricted Mr Bs account as it had concerns about some of the activity 
on it. Following a review, Monzo decided to close Mr Bs account and return any remaining 
funds to source. Mr B was notified by Monzo it was closing his account. 
Later, Monzo notified CIFAS (Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System) who applied a 
misuse of facility marker against him. 
Unhappy with Monzos actions, Mr B complained. Mr B explained that he thinks his account 
has been taken over by fraudsters and says he doesnt know anything about certain 
transactions Monzo had concerns about. 
Monzo didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In short it said it had complied with its internal 
procedures and the regulatory obligations placed on it. After carrying out a second review of 
the application of the CIFAS marker, it was still unable to remove the marker. 
In addition, Monzo said it would credit Mr B with £25 as an apology for any distress and 
inconvenience it caused through delaying the handling of his complaint. 
Mr B then referred his complaint to this service. In summary they said: 
- Monzo closed the account in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
- Based on the evidence it had seen, Monzo had acted fairly in loading a CIFAS 
marker against Mr B
- Mr B had said he didnt know about a third-party crypto account, but Monzo had 
shown money was transferred between that account as early as 2 June 2021. As this 
crypto account had to be linked to an account in the same name, and identity verified 
before it was opened, its reasonable to conclude Mr B knew about it 
- As Mr B says he hasnt shared his app login details with anybody else. So theres no 
plausible explanation how anybody other than Mr B could have made the 
transactions on the account 
- As Monzo have shown it attempted to get address confirmation from Mr B to send 
statements to him, and as Mr B didnt respond, it hasnt anything wrong by not 
sending them 
- Monzos offer to pay £25 compensation and send residual funds to Mr B is fair. Mr B 
hasnt accepted this 
Mr B didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He said he had moved to a store with the 
same employer and the transfer of his paperwork was compromised during this time. He 
says this contained his personal and banking details, and he believes this loss of data 
explains what happened. Mr B wanted to provide statements from his manager  but he 
hasnt been able to do so, and a reasonable time has now passed.   
It follows I must now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint 
him, so Ill explain why. 
Account restriction and closure
Banks in the UK, like Monzo, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Monzos reasons for restricting Mr Bs account, Im satisfied it hasnt done 
anything wrong here. Im also satisfied Monzo didnt cause any undue delay in carrying out 
its review.
Monzo is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Monzo closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Monzo and Mr B had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Having looked at the information given to me by Monzo, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. Mr B may want to know Monzos reasons for 
restricting and then closing his account. But Monzo is under no obligation do this. 
CIFAS marker 
The marker Monzo have filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds.
In order to file such a marker, Monzo is not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that 
Mr B is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more 
than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Bs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, Monzo will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether Monzo has 
enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with 
CIFAS. 
Firstly, Im satisfied fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account. Mr B told Monzo he doesnt 
recognise the transactions Monzo asked him about. Im satisfied Monzo have shown Mr Bs 
account had received fraudulent funds. 
So, I must now turn to whether I think Mr B was unwitting or deliberately dishonest in 
receiving these funds. Monzo has given me its internal records of correspondence, and 
chats, between it and Mr B. 
Mr B told Monzo nobody else knew his account login credentials including his PIN, nor that 
anyone had access to his emails. Mr B also said he didnt write his PIN down anywhere. I 
note that there were also two devices linked to Mr Bs account. Mr B has told this service he 
didnt know anything about the third-party crypto currency account. I can see Monzo asked 
Mr B about this account when carrying out its own investigation  and I havent seen that 
Mr B refuted having the account with it. 
The reason this crypto account is important is because the fraudulent funds were moved into 
it. From the information I have, and which Ive set out above, I cant see how Mr Bs account 
details were compromised. 
Mr B says his employer lost his paperwork which contained his personal details. But Mr B 
has said the Monzo account was effectively an auxiliary account which he had in addition to 
his two other mainstream ones - where he carried out most of his banking. So I cant see 
how his Monzo bank details would have been on them for any opportunistic fraudster to 
obtain details for.
It's not clear why Mr B didnt tell Monzo he didnt know anything about the crypto account. 
Monzo have said that the information Mr B did send about this showed no transactions being 
made.  I havent been able to see what Mr B sent to Monzo. 
I note there were transactions being made between the crypto and Monzo account much 
earlier and before the fraudulent funds hit the account. There are other transactions made on 
the account around this time to  so I think its likely Mr B would have accessed and seen his 
account transactions. If Mr B didnt recognise the crypto payments, Id have expected him to 
have flagged this without delay to Monzo. 
Ive also checked the crypto account terms and note a customer can only have the one 
account with it, and their identity needs to be verified before the account is opened. So, 
taking everything together, I think its more likely Mr B did know about the crypto account. 
So, after weighing everything up, Im persuaded Monzo has acted fairly in applying a misuse 
of facility CIFAS marker against Mr B. In other words, I think theres enough information to 
show complicity.  
Lastly, Im satisfied Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in trying to send Mr B his statements 
 but it wasnt given confirmation of the correct address to do so. Given the fraud concerns 
here, this is more than a reasonable request for Monzo to make before sending them.  Monzo offered Mr B £25 for any distress and inconvenience its delay in handling the 
complaint caused. I dont think it needs to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman