DRN-3999803
The complaint
Mrs J and Mrs M have complained (as trustees of the J Trust) that Zurich Assurance Ltd 
declined the claim made on their critical illness policy when Mrs J was diagnosed with 
cancer.  And Zurich cancelled the policy because they said Mrs J had made a 
misrepresentation in her application.
What happened
On 10 February, after consulting her financial adviser, Mrs J bought a life and critical illness 
policy from Zurich.  As part of the application, she answered a number of health and lifestyle 
questions.  Based on the information she provided, her application was accepted.  The 
policy had a start date of 1 March.
On 19 February, Mrs J went to the hospital accident and emergency department suffering 
from chest pains and difficulty in swallowing.  She was discharged and a routine gastroscopy 
requested.  On 24 and 26 February, Mrs J consulted her GP about her continuing 
symptoms.
In April 2020, Mrs J was diagnosed with cancer.  In mid-May, she made a claim on the 
critical illness element of her policy.
As part of their consideration of her claim, Zurich obtained copies of Mrs Js medical records.  
They noted the information about her hospital attendance and follow up in February.  And 
they reviewed Mrs Js application and noted shed answered no to the question:
Other than for the conditions you have already told us about earlier in this application:
are you aware of any symptoms that you intend to seek medical advice or treatment for, or 
are you waiting for any test results, appointments or investigations with your doctor or other 
medical professional?
Zurich said Mrs J should have notified them about her hospital attendance and follow up 
when theyd written to her asking if anything was incorrect or had changed before the cover 
started.  Because she hadnt, Zurich concluded Mrs J had made a misrepresentation and, if 
theyd known the true position, they would have postponed offering cover until the outcome 
of her gastroscopy was known.  
Zurich told Mrs J this entitled them to cancel the policy, which they did.  And they refunded 
her premiums.
Mrs J complained about Zurichs decision.  Zurich didnt uphold her complaint.  They 
explained their policy states they may cancel it if their questions arent answered to the best 
of an applicants knowledge.  And they said theyd sent Mrs J a copy of the details theyd 
received and highlighted it gave her the chance to make any changes that were needed.
Mrs J and Mrs M werent satisfied with Zurichs response and brought their complaint to our 
service.  Our investigator considered it and concluded Zurich didnt need to do any more to 
resolve the complaint.  
He was satisfied Zurich had made clear that Mrs J needed to advise them of any changes in 
her answers before the policy went live. So there had been a misrepresentation within the 
meaning set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA).  And the investigator was satisfied that Zurich had dealt with the misrepresentation 
in line with CIDRA.
Mrs J and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mrs J and Mrs M have made on behalf of 
the trust.  Ill explain why.
I understand why Mrs Js upset.  She bought the policy to provide protection for her and her 
family in the event she became ill and couldnt work.  Thats now happened.  And she hasnt 
got the cover she thought she had.
While Im very sorry Mrs J has found herself in that situation, I can only say Zurich should 
deal differently with her policy and her claim if I think theyve done something wrong and not 
acted in accordance with the law.  Thats not the case.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers  in this case, Mrs J - to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer (Zurich) has certain remedies - provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich say Mrs J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, because 
she didnt tell them shed visited accident and emergency after between applying for the 
policy and the policy.   Mrs J says she didnt tell them, because her financial adviser told her 
the policy term had started on 10 February  the day she made the application.  Ive 
considered this in light of the available evidence.
Ive been provided with copies of the policy schedule and the personal details confirmation 
(PDC).  Both of these show 1 March as the policy start date.  And both were sent to Mrs J 
under cover of letters dated 24 February.
Mrs J has said she didnt receive these letters.  So our investigator asked Zurich to confirm 
they were sent.  Zurich have confirmed their systems show this.  The letters are correctly 
addressed.  So  while I acknowledge Mrs J doesnt agree  Im satisfied they were sent.
I cant comment on what Mrs J was told by her financial adviser.  If she feels they gave her 
wrong information, thats something shell need to raise with them.  But Im satisfied the 
documents Zurich sent to her made the policy start date clear to Mrs J. And I think the documents also make clear that Mrs J needed to tell Zurich if any of the 
information they included was wrong, or had changed.  The letter sending the PDC says:
If anything changes or is incorrect
We know how important the cover is to you so if you think anything youve told us is wrong, 
or has changed up to the policy start date, let us know as soon as possible.  If you dont tell 
us about something thats incorrect we may have to cancel the policy or be unable to pay a 
claim.
The PDC contains similar warnings at its start and end  as does the letter sending the 
policy schedule.  So, on balance Im satisfied that Mrs J was aware she needed to update 
the application information following her hospital visit.  And that not doing so was a 
misrepresentation.
Zurich have confirmed that, if Mrs J had changed her answer to yes, they would have 
reached a different decision on offering cover and would have postponed the sale of the 
policy until the outcome of Mrs Js gastroscopy was known.  So Im satisfied the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one within the meaning of CIDRA.
On that basis, Ive considered whether the remedy applied by Zurich was in line with CIDRA.  
Im satisfied it was.  Theyve concluded the misrepresentation was careless (rather than 
deliberate or reckless.  I think thats fair.  And I can see that theyve cancelled the policy and 
refunded the premiums.  
Thats what CIDRA requires.  But, on the basis I think their decision was reasonable, I dont 
think Zurich need to do any more to resolve the complaint Mrs J and Mrs M have made on 
behalf of the Mrs J trust. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mrs J and Mrs M have made 
about Zurich Assurance Ltd on behalf of the J trust.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mrs M 
as trustees of the J Trust to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman