DRN-4363068
The complaint
Mr K complains that One Insurance Limited rejected a claim on his legal expenses insurance 
policy. 
Where I refer to One Insurance Limited, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting 
on its behalf.
What happened
Mr K made a claim on his policy to cover his legal costs relating to a claim for nuisance and 
trespass against his neighbour, but One Insurance said there was no cover for disputes with 
neighbours. 
When Mr K complained, One Insurance maintained its position so he referred the complaint 
to this Service. Our investigator said it wasnt fair for One Insurance to decline the claim as it 
wasnt clear in the policy terms that disputes with neighbours were not covered.
One Insurance disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says the policy 
wording clearly lists disputes with neighbours as an example of a non-claimable event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed. The policy wording should be clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
The policy includes cover for property disputes. The relevant term says:
We will pay costs for any dispute relating to events causing disruption to the quiet 
enjoyment of your home, arising from nuisance or the trespass of third parties. You must be 
either the homeowner or rent the property.
Mr Ks claim concerns trespass and nuisance so its a type of claim that is covered unless 
One Insurance can show theres an exclusion that applies. One Insurance says that is the 
case, because the dispute is with Mr Ks neighbour and neighbour disputes are excluded.
The policy has some general exclusions that apply to all claims and some specific 
exclusions that apply to property disputes but these dont include anything about neighbour 
disputes. 
One Insurance has referred to something in the policy document that says 
Examples of Non Claimable Events: 
 You were involved in a dispute with your neighbour and require legal representation
As Ive said, this isnt included in the lists of exclusions. And this is in a section at the 
beginning of the document, before the Terms and Conditions. So I dont think it forms part 
of the terms and conditions.
If this exclusion were to apply it would mean that while the policy provides cover for this type 
of dispute, it then effectively excludes most of them  trespass and nuisance disputes will 
typically involve a neighbour. If these claims will never be covered thats a significant term 
and its unusual. So it should be brought to the consumers attention. But this is not listed in 
any of the exclusions, nor is it mentioned in the summary of cover set out in Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID). I dont think its clear that these claims are excluded 
when thats set out not in the list of exclusions or the IPID.
In these circumstances it would not be fair to say Mr Ks claim is excluded due to it involving 
a neighbour. So One Insurance should not reject his claim on that basis.
There may be policy terms or exclusions that do apply and so One Insurance will need to 
assess the claim in line with the remaining terms. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct One Insurance Limited to reconsider the claim in line with 
the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman