DRN-3637004
The complaint
Mr D complains about how One Call Claims Limited (OCCL) handled his claim after he was 
involved in a road traffic accident.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr D was involved in a road traffic accident he said wasnt his fault. His car 
was hit from behind, his car was damaged beyond economical repair and he suffered 
personal injuries. Mr D used the services of OCCL, a claims management company (CMC) 
to handle his claim. Mr D said he was referred to solicitors for his personal injury claim, but 
theyd dropped his case, so he had to take the third party to court himself. He complained to 
OCCL.
OCCL said Mr D had agreed to use their accident management services. As hed also said 
hed suffered an injury they referred him to a legal advice helpline. As this only gave advice 
Mr D was referred to solicitors for him to discuss representation and what would be involved 
in taking the matter forward. OCCL said theyd fulfilled their obligations as a CMC. 
Mr D wasnt happy with OCCLs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the main crux of Mr Ds complaint was about the solicitors actions and 
that wasnt something we could look at. He said OCCL had acted fairly and reasonably in 
managing Mr Ds claim, theyd arranged settlement form the third party insurer (TPI) and 
referred Mr D to solicitors for his personal injury claim. 
Mr D didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be a disappointment to 
Mr D but Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, can I say this has clearly been a very distressing time for Mr D, not only was he 
involved in an accident that wasnt his fault. But he has been and still is suffering from the 
injuries resulting from the accident. 
I think the main crux of Mr Ds complaint is about the representation hes had from solicitors 
for his personal injury claim. This isnt something I can consider, so I wont comment on the 
actions taken by the solicitors. In reaching my decision Ive only considered what OCCL, as 
a CMC, did or didnt do for Mr D. And whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with him.
Up until 31 March 2019, CMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And
complaints about CMCs were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the
regulation of CMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and complaints 
moved to the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the events Mr D is complaining 
about took place before this change in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the 
Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman would have taken.
After the accident in October 2018, when Mr D called to report the incident, he didnt make a 
claim against his comprehensive motor insurance policy, he used the services of OCCL as 
the accident was seen as not being his fault. 
OCCL offer what are known as accident management services, which means they would 
look to provide certain services to someone whod been involved in a road traffic
accident that wasnt their fault. For example, they would typically arrange a hire car,
where needed, organise repairs, or determine the pre-accident value of the car if its
deemed non repairable and then claim these costs back from the at fault TPI. They would 
have a responsibility to mitigate any costs as the TPI wouldnt cover any costs incurred if 
they werent a result of the accident.
The advantage to the non-fault driver is that by not claiming against their motor insurance 
policy they dont have to pay their motor insurance policy excess and there isnt any impact 
on their no-claims discount, if they have one.
I can see from OCCLs records that they arranged for another company to look into the 
damage to Mr Ds car. And put Mr D in touch with solicitors for them to offer advice and the 
way forward about his personal injury claim. Which is what I would have expected a CMC to 
do.
In November 2018 I can see Mr D asked OCCL about his claim and they told him the name 
of the company handling his damaged car. And the name of the solicitors dealing with his 
personal injury claim. OCCLs records go on to show the TPI settled the claim for the 
damage to Mr Ds car the same month. I can see Mr Ds car was considered beyond 
economical repair and a settlement cheque was sent to him.
I can also see from OCCLs records that Mr D contacted them on several occasions as he 
wasnt happy about how his personal injury claim was being handled by the solicitors. And I 
can see that each time OCCL referred Mr D to the solicitors representing him. It was also 
explained to him that he hadnt made a claim against his comprehensive motor insurance 
policy. 
I know Mr D is of the understanding hed made a claim against his motor insurance policy 
and doesnt accept hed agreed to the use of OCCLs services as a CMC. The call recording 
when this was discussed, because of the passage of time, is no longer available. I cant say 
OCCL has done anything wrong by this call not being available as the relevant guidance 
says call recordings need to be kept for a minimum of 12 months from the settlement of the 
claim. And the settlement cheque was sent in November 2018.
So, Ive considered other available evidence, OCCLs notes show from October 2018 when 
Mr D reported his accident he was informed and kept updated about who was handling his 
claims. In November 2018, the settlement cheque for the damage to his car was sent to him. 
And as Mr D had said when he reported the accident that hed suffered personal injury 
OCCL had referred him to solicitors for him to make a personal injury claim. So, I cant say 
OCCL have acted unfairly or unreasonably in what they have done.
As I said previously the main crux of Mr Ds complaint is about the actions of the solicitors, and I cant hold OCCL to account for that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman