DRN-4400928
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Zopa Bank Limited acted irresponsibly when it provided him with 
both a hire purchase agreement and an unsecured personal loan in 2021.
What happened
Mr G applied for a hire purchase agreement for £5,000 in June 2021 and an unsecured
personal for £15,000 in December 2021 from Zopa. He has said that at the time he was
experiencing extremely poor mental health and was gambling excessively. He believes that
Zopa failed to run adequate checks when he approached it for credit in 2021. He says if it
had properly reviewed his circumstances it wouldve realised his excessive gambling was
causing him financial stress and that he was a vulnerable consumer. As such he believes
Zopa shouldnt have provided him with the credit it did. Hes asked for it to remove all
interest and charges and to delete all adverse information linked to both the hire purchase
agreement and personal loan from his credit file.
Zopa has said that when Mr G applied for both the hire purchase agreement and unsecured
personal loan it ran all required checks against his income and credit rating. It says Mr G had
declared that the loan was for debt consolidation and that he had more than enough
disposable income available to him each month to cover the repayments. Therefore, it
doesnt think it was wrong to provide him with either the hire purchase agreement or the
loan. So, it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr G disagreed with Zopas response and brought his complaint to our service. I issued a 
provisional decision on 21 September 2023 upholding Mr Gs complaint. I found that the 
decision to provide him with the hire purchase agreement in June 2021 was fine but that 
there was sufficient evidence linked to Mr Gs borrowing at the time he applied for loan in 
December 2021 for Zopa to have queried the sustainability of the loan. So I said the bank 
needed to refund all interest and charges applied to the loan.
Mr G accepted the findings of the provisional decision, but Zopa didnt. In response it said 
that its systems had approved the loan and therefore it was affordable. Because Mr G 
passed all the checks run by its systems algorithms it felt there was nothing to indicate it 
needed to ask Mr G for more information or check his details more carefully. It also said that 
even if it had checked Mr Gs bank statements it wouldve only looked at the incoming 
credits to verify Mr Gs salary and it wouldnt have looked at his outgoings or what he was 
spending the credit he received on. So it would never have seen the gambling transactions 
or taken these into consideration.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im still of the opinion that Zopa shouldnt have provided Mr G with the 
£15,000 loan and for much the same reasons. So I will repeat the findings from my 
provisional decision below and then address the points raised by Zopa. 
As Mr G took out two different credit products with Zopa I will address them separately.
£5,000 hire purchase agreement June 2021
Mr G applied for a £5,000 hire purchase agreement in June 2021 in order to buy a car. At
this time his declared income was £65,000 and he had some existing loans and credit cards
already in his name, some of which was relatively new borrowing. For example, looking at
Mr Gs credit file I can see he took out new loans in November and December 2020 as well
as a large loan for approximately £10,000 in April 2021. So, there was a pattern already
emerging in June 2021 of Mr G becoming increasingly reliant on credit.
Zopa has said that it asked Mr G to complete an income and expenditure form and that it
checked his credit file and was satisfied that all existing forms of credit were up to date with
repayments and that the repayments were affordable given his monthly disposable income.
However, the regulations require not just that lenders check new forms of credit are
affordable, but also that theyre likely to be sustainable over the course of the repayment
period.
While I think it wouldve been prudent for Zopa to have gathered more information from Mr G
when he applied for the hire purchase agreement, this was a relatively low amount of money
to borrow and it was for a fixed purpose, to obtain a car. So, Mr G didnt actually receive any
funds into his account, and the monthly repayments were only £173 per month. Therefore,
despite the fact that I think Zopa couldve asked for more detailed submissions I think the
lending was likely affordable and substantiable and so Im not upholding this element of Mr
Gs complaint.
£15,000 unsecured personal loan December 2021
Six months after applying for the hire purchase agreement Mr G applied for a large loan of
£15,000 over 36 months. Which meant his monthly repayments were also expensive at
approximately £550 per month for the term of the loan.
At this stage Mr G still had the three loans listed above as well as the hire purchase
agreement. He also had four credit cards all of which were sitting near their limits. The
declared reason for this loan was consolidation but the interest rate on the loan was quite
high so Im not entirely sure that it wouldve been used for that purpose. Also, while Zopa
have said that they completed an income and expenditure form with Mr G at this time Ive
not see the detail of that or what information he was asked beyond the basics.
So, I think Zopa shouldve done more than run the basic affordability checks it did before
providing Mr G with this additional lending. I say this because although Mr G had a higher-
than-average income the volume of lending he had taken out in the previous year was
unusual. Especially for someone who apparently had over £1,960 of disposable monthly
income. I think Zopa shouldve questioned why all this credit was necessary if Mr G 
genuinely had the amount of disposable income he appeared to. 
There are no specific checks that have to be completed but when a lender needs to verify a
consumers income and outgoings. But one of the most common and quickest ways of doing
it is to check bank statements, as this will likely show both an applicants actual monthly
income and all fixed regular outgoings. If Zopa had asked to confirm Mr Gs disposable
income and declared outgoings by reviewing his bank statements it wouldve seen that by
December 2021 Mr G was gambling in an excessive and compulsive way. In fact, it wouldve
quickly realised that all of the lending that he had taken in the previous year, except for the
lending linked to the hire purchase agreement, had primarily been lost to gambling
transactions. And so, it wouldve realised that Mr G was spiralling financially and extremelyvulnerable.
I dont think Zopa wouldve agreed to give Mr G the loan in December 2021 if it had properly
queried why he was taking out the volume of credit he was at that time. I think it wouldve
been clear to it that the repayments werent sustainable and that his increased volume of
credit was linked to harmful levels of compulsive spending. 
In response to the provisional decision Zopa has said the checks its systems are designed to 
run to would never have picked up on the fact Mr G was gambling extensively or taken these 
into consideration before approving an application for credit. I find this admission extremely 
worryingly. The rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for lenders state that 
they need to consider not only affordability but also the sustainability of any credit provided 
to consumers. And part of that latter consideration will be reviewing the lines of credit 
already available to the consumer, what theyre being used for and how theyre managing 
their finances generally. By designing its systems to never review gambling transactions 
Zopa is at serious risk of providing credit to extremely vulnerable consumers and causing 
serious harm to them. I would respectfully suggest that if its systems genuinely never 
consider any signs of compulsive spending before approving credit applications it needs to 
revisit those systems and review whether or not they are fit for purpose. 
Putting things right
I dont think Zopa should have provided the December 2021 loan to Mr G, so I dont think its
fair for it to charge any interest or charges on that loan. However, Mr G still needs to repay
the capital amount he borrowed. Therefore, Zopa should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of having been given the
loan and then rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and
insurances (not already refunded) that have been applied;
Subtract the repayments Mr G has made from this amount.
If this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, any overpayments must be
refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the overpayments
were made to the date of settlement.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, Zopa should arrange an affordable and
suitable payment plan with Mr G. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Mr G can
return to this service to make a further complaint.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Gs credit file relating to the loan. If
Mr G enters a repayment plan this information will remain on his credit file until the
capital amount borrowed has been repaid in full.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund 
to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint against Zopa Bank Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman