DRN-4035188
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the end of contract charges ALD Automative Limited (ALD) applied 
when she returned her car, and the way it handled her complaint.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs W entered a hire agreement with ALD for a new car. The agreement 
was for 36 months. 
When the agreement came to an end, a collection and inspection was arranged on 13 May 
2022. The collection agent said the rear brake light was loose and told Mrs Ws husband to 
take it off to tighten it, whilst doing this the casing broke, after a lengthy telephone call the 
collection agent decided to abort the collection, as the rear light was a MOT failure. Mrs W 
was told that shed be contacted with a new inspection date, but didnt hear anything, until 
she chased this, the collection was rescheduled to the 27 May 2022, but later postponed 
until 30 May 2022.
Mrs W complained to ALD, she was unhappy she had been invoiced for multiple damaged 
items and said that some damage noted in the second inspection report hadnt been picked 
up in the first inspection report, so felt the damage must have occurred after the original 
collection date. She was also unhappy that ALD had applied a late hire fee, and an abort fee 
as the delay in collection was due to the collection agents actions. Mrs W said she had 
serviced the car at the required interval, so didnt think she should pay a missing service 
charge. Mrs W was also charged for excess mileage. 
ALD agreed to remove all damage items with exception to the damage to three alloy wheels 
(totalling £150), which both inspection reports had noted. It also agreed to remove the abort 
and missing service fees. In relation to the late hire fees, it agreed that Mrs W should only be 
charged a late fee up until the original collection date on 13 May 2022. It recalculated that 
Mrs W owed £133.07 in late fees but agreed to remove this charge as a gesture of goodwill 
to reflect the problems experienced.
Mrs W remained unhappy, she didnt think the credit of £133.07 went far enough to reflect 
the stress of having the charges hanging over her or the inconvenience caused by the 
appraisal process. She referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought it was fair for ALD to apply 
the remaining charges for the damaged alloys and excess mileage. But she didnt think the 
£133.07 credit, went far enough, she thought ALD should issue an apology and pay Mrs W 
£100 to reflect the stress and inconvenience caused. 
ALD accepted the investigators recommendation, Mrs W didnt. She didnt think the 
compensation went far enough.
 
In the interim ALD offered to pay Mrs W £200 compensation. Mrs W remains unhappy so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. And our rules allow me to do this, this reflects our informal, free service as an 
alternative to the courts.
Mrs W complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs 
Ws complaint about ALD. 
Mrs W has only responded about the level of compensation, so its not clear if she now 
accepts the outstanding excess mileage fee and the alloy damage charges. For 
completeness I will consider whether I think its reasonable for ALD to apply these charges, 
before considering whether ALD needs to pay Mrs W more compensation.
alloy damage & excess mileage charges
Ive firstly thought about whether ALD can charge Mrs W for damage. Looking at the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Ws agreement, this says
10. Return of the Vehicle
10.3 The state of repair and condition of the Vehicle is to be consistent with its mileage, 
assuming good treatment and allowing for Fair Wear and Tear. The customer will pay to 
ALD all sums necessary, including Excess Mileage charges, to restore the Vehicle to a 
roadworthy condition satisfactory to ALD
So, considering this, I think Mrs W agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the 
industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear, and Im satisfied she agreed to 
be charged if this wasnt the case. 
The industry wear and tear guidelines are provided by British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA).
 
In relation to the alloy wheels the BVRLA guidance says scuffs up to 50mm on the total on 
the circumference of the wheel rim and alloy wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the 
wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheels not acceptable. There should be no 
rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels.
I can see that both inspection reports note the damage to the three alloy wheels, so Im 
satisfied that this damage was present at the original collection date. And I think its clear 
from the images that the damage to the three alloys, exceed the BVRLA allowance. So, I 
think its fair for ALD to apply the £150 charge for the alloy wheels. In the circumstances, I 
wont be asking it to reduce or remove this charge.
Mrs W hasnt specifically disputed the excess mileage charge of £391.93, but Ive 
considered whether ALD can fairly apply this. Mrs W exceeded the mileage set out in the 
agreement by 4,568 miles. And in accordance with her agreement, she was charged 7.15 
per extra mile. Im satisfied that Mrs W has been charged correctly with the addition of VAT, 
so I think its fair for ALD to require Mrs W to pay this charge. customer services
ALD doesnt dispute that Mrs W didnt have a good customer journey during its appraisal 
process and accepts there was a delay in responding to her complaint. Which meant Mrs W 
had to wait 14 weeks to have the charges removed and she has told us how stressful this 
was.
ALD removed the £133.07 late charge which was payable up until the original collection date 
on 13 May 2022. And it has since offered to pay Mrs W a further £200 to reflect the stress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs W says it isnt about the money but more so the principle, she has suggested that a 
compensation payment in the region of £300 would be more appropriate. Calculating 
compensation isnt a scientific exercise and it is not our role to penalise or punish the 
business. I accept Mrs W was caused stress and frustration and has spent time pursuing this 
matter. However, in all the circumstances, I think that ALDs £200 offer, in addition to the 
£133.07 late charge already credited, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold this complaint and direct ALD Automative Limited to;
issue Mrs W an apology, if it hasnt already done so
pay Mrs W £200 compensation to reflect the stress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman