DRN-3155915
The complaint
Mr F complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr F with a loan as follows: 
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*Loan purpose
May 2017 Repaid early 24 £5,000 £283.61 Debt 
consolidation
Mr F said, through a representative, that 118 118 Money didnt properly undertake 
affordability checks or assess the signs of his over-indebtedness. He told us that this loan 
made his already poor financial situation worse.
When Mr F complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint. She didnt think the loan looked 
affordable once all his expenditure was taken into account and that the credit checks 118 
118 Money did showed Mr F was becoming reliant on credit and that Mr F would have been 
unlikely able to make his repayments sustainably. So she upheld the complaint. 
118 118 Money disagrees with our investigator. It mainly said that if the loan had been used 
for its stated purpose of debt consolidation it would have put Mr F in a far better position as it 
was enough to settle 90% of all the active credit on his credit file.   
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr F and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
- Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Fs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- Did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr F about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It completed income verification with a third party and checked 
Mr Fs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
From the information it gathered, 118 118 Money concluded Mr F had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the loan. It called Mr F to talk him through the loan details and asked him if 
he was happy to proceed or if he had any further questions. 
I've listened carefully to the call recording  after being given details of the loan costs and 
the monthly repayments he would have to make, Mr F confirmed he was happy to go ahead 
with the loan. 118 118 Money was satisfied that its independent check showed that it could rely on the 
monthly income of £1,888 that Mr F had declared. 118 118 Money told us that Mr F had said 
he paid £500 rent and his council tax and bills amounted to £260 and insurance cost him 
£50 per month. 
When assessing affordability, 118 118 Money boosted Mr Fs declared expenses figure and 
allowed for him spending up to 25% of his take home pay on regular outgoings. After also 
looking at what its own checks showed Mr F was already spending on his existing credit 
commitments,118 118 Money worked out that Mr F should still have around £354 spare cash 
left over each month after making the monthly repayments of £283.61 on its loan. So 118 
118 Money concluded that this meant its loan was affordable for Mr F.
I think that 118 118 Moneys income and expenditure calculation was broadly fair and 
reasonable - and on these figures alone, I can see why it concluded that the loan looked 
potentially affordable for Mr F. 
But I dont think 118 118 Money thought carefully enough about what its credit checks 
showed. 118 118 Money has acknowledged, as our investigator said in her view letter, that it 
was able to see that in the months leading up to the lending, Mr F had taken out three pay 
day loans and an unsecured loan and he was over the limit of one of his cards and close to 
the limit on another. 
Whilst I dont think this was enough to show that he wouldnt realistically be able to afford the 
monthly repayments for this loan, Im not satisfied that the checks 118 118 Money went far 
enough. I say that because:
 this was a substantial loan for Mr F that he was signing up to pay for the next 2 years and 
118 118 Money needed to ensure the repayments were sustainable for him over this 
relatively long period of time
 118 118 Moneys analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Mr Fs declared 
credit expenditure. Mr F hadnt declared any credit commitments when 118 118 Moneys 
credit search showed that he had 9 active accounts and he owed a total amount of £5,519 to 
creditors 
 118 118 Money would have seen in its credit checks that since the start of the year, Mr F 
had taken out what appears to have been a short-term loan in January 2017 that he repaid 
the following month, and then two expensive short term unsecured loans with other finance 
providers (both on the same day) at the beginning of March 2017, just two months or so 
before applying for this loan. He was still repaying these alongside an unsecured loan he 
had taken out in 2015 and he had used up most of the available credit on his credit cards  
and was £49 over the credit limit on one of them. 
I can see from 118 118 Moneys records that it appears Mr F said he would be using the 
loan to consolidate his debts  in other words, he would pay other credit debts with it so 118 
118 Moneys loan wouldnt be extra borrowing on top of his existing debt.
And I think it is fair enough for 118 118 Money to have assumed that Mr F would do this and 
to say that he could have paid off around 90% of his outstanding debt. 
I can see that its loan would have enabled Mr F to clear both his credit cards and very 
significantly reduce what he owed on his credit report. But given what 118 118 Money saw about Mr Fs credit history, I think with what it had in 
front of it, 118 118 Money ought to have had concerns about Mr Fs finances. He had 
declared to 118 118 Money that he had a comfortable amount of disposable income and this 
was seriously at odds with what 118 118 Money saw on its own credit checks showing that 
he had needed to take out short-term loans and use most of the available credit that he had 
already applied for. 
I think when I consider this and also the discrepancies between what it had in front of it and 
what Mr F declared, 118 118 Money ought to have been concerned enough to do more in-
depth checks before it agreed to provide this loan. 
To my mind, 118 118 Moneys checks should have included a full review of Mr Fs financial 
circumstances and, in particular, further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure that 
the loan repayments were affordable over the term of the loan. 
But although I dont think the checks 118 118 Money did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, thats not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I also need to 
be able to say that if 118 118 Money had done what I consider to be proportionate 
checks, these would have shown 118 118 Money that Mr F couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments. 
I havent however been provided with any further information to enable me to say what 118 
118 Money would have most likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
So, because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr F was given a loan that was 
unaffordable for him. 
Ive carefully considered that our investigator thought that the information 118 118 Money 
had in front of it was enough for it to have realised that this loan shouldnt have been 
provided. But whilst I have seen the results of 118 118 Moneys credit checks, and although 
I can see in the credit search outstanding payday loans with other lenders and that Mr F had 
utilised most of his available credit, I havent seen enough to be able to say that the amount 
of debt he had, or how he was managing it, should have led 118 118 Money to decline his 
loan application. This is because Mr F had requested this loan from 118 118 Money to 
consolidate his existing debt, and the loan would cover a very high percentage of what he 
owed. There was also no serious impaired credit information shown on his file and nothing 
adverse that was very recent.  
To sum up, as things stand, I think Mr Fs credit history raised concerns about whether he 
had become over-reliant on using credit and the information 118 118 Money gathered should 
have prompted it to find out more about Mr Fs financial situation at that time. But thats not a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint if I cant also point to information that 118 118 Money 
shouldve found out showing that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr F. 
And bearing in mind that this loan was intended for debt consolidation, I think in these 
circumstances 118 118 Money was reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested 
Mr F was borrowing specifically to help him manage his finances more responsibly  and it 
looked like he ought to be able to afford to do that on the figures it worked out. 
I cant fairly say in this situation that 118 118 Money is responsible for adding to Mr Fs debt 
problems if he didnt use the loan for its stated purpose. 
I think the scale of his debts compared to the more or less equivalent value of the loan 
means that he could have used the loan to help him improve his financial situation. In 
particular, he couldve saved on credit card interest as it looks like he was often making only minimum monthly repayments to his cards which adds very significantly to the long term cost 
of that credit  repayments at that level are insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into 
card balances. 
Ultimately, as Ive not been able to see what better checks would have shown 118 118 
Money, on this occasion I havent been able to draw any conclusions about this, other than 
I cant fairly and reasonably say that the loan was unaffordable for Mr F.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not currently upholding Mr Fs complaint.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr F, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. And if Mr F would 
like help to manage his finances or to speak to someone about his situation generally, 
theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other help on our website  
or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party by the deadline set for responses to reach me 
so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Mr Fs complaint. 
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman