DRN-1856183
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc recorded a CIFAS marker against his name. He says this 
meant he couldnt apply for an account elsewhere and that his insurance company cancelled 
his car insurance, so he couldnt drive. CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud alert services.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party.
What happened
Mr A applied for an account with TSB on 3 August 2019. Although his account was initially 
opened, TSB closed it after it had carried out a review of the documents hed provided. Mr A 
says TSB told him hed provided a provisional driving licence which it couldnt accept.
But later in the year, Mr A realised TSB had recorded a CIFAS marker against his name. He 
asked TSB to remove it, but it refused. He complained to CIFAS, but it said TSB had 
provided evidence that Mr A had used a falsified document when he applied for the account.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought TSB 
should remove the marker based on the letter provided by the DVLA which confirmed the 
provisional licence Mr A had used to open the account was genuine. She also thought TSB 
should pay Mr A £500 compensation.
TSB removed the CIFAS marker. But it didnt agree to pay £500 compensation. It offered to 
pay Mr A £300.
Mr A initially agreed with our investigators conclusions. But later, after failing to get a new 
insurance policy, he felt £500 was not enough to compensate him for the difficulties TSB had 
caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that TSB has now removed the CIFAS marker, accepting the documents 
Mr A provided had not been falsified. But, because Mr A had an insurance policy cancelled 
as a direct result of the CIFAS marker, he may face some difficulty in obtaining insurance in 
the future without being able to provide an explanation. For that reason, I find TSB should 
write a letter of apology to Mr A, explaining that the CIFAS marker was recorded due to its 
error.
The CIFAS marker has caused Mr A a great deal of worry, upset and inconvenience. In 
particular, he has not been able to drive his car because his insurance was cancelled. Mr A 
provided TSB with enough evidence to show his documentation was genuine by December 
2019, but TSB didnt remove the marker until around six months later. In the circumstances I 
agree with our investigator that £500 is fair and reasonable compensation.
I understand another CIFAS marker was recorded by another bank. I cant comment on that 
here, as it is the subject of a separate complaint Mr A has brought against that bank. But, 
unless and until that marker is also removed, Mr A may continue to face difficulties. To 
clarify, Im satisfied that TSB has taken the necessary action to remove the marker it 
recorded and I cant ask it to do anything about any other marker that other parties may have 
recorded.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should:
1. Write a letter of apology to Mr A, explaining that the CIFAS marker was recorded as 
a result of the banks error.
2. Pay Mr A £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman