DRN-3306542
The complaint
Mr H, on behalf of C, complains that Fairmead Insurance Ltd unfairly declined a claim Cs 
business protection insurance policy.
All references to Fairmead include their claims handlers.
What happened
C has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mr H made a claim on that
policy to cover Cs losses arising out of a loss of rents claim from a commercial property it 
owned. This was because the tenant stopped paying rent from March 2020. C told Fairmead 
this was as a result of the tenant having to close its business due to the national 
government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid-19.
Fairmead declined the claim because it said C didnt have cover for the losses it was 
claiming for. 
Mr H feels cover should be provided for this. He said the tenant also stopped paying rent 
because the property had suffered internal damage which would have stopped it from 
trading. Fairmead agreed to consider the damage claim separately and later declined that 
too. The damage claim as well as Cs dissatisfaction with continued delays in dealing with 
this claim beyond February 2021 and the claims process are the subject of a different 
complaint to this Service and are being considered separately.  The subject of this complaint 
is the loss of rents claim as well as delays by Fairmead in dealing with the accidental 
damage claim up to February 2021 and the fact that C felt Fairmead were relying on policy 
terms theyd never seen. 
Our investigator considered Cs complaint and concluded that it should be upheld in part. He 
said there was no cover for the loss of rents claim C was making, but Fairmead didnt deal 
with its accidental damage claim promptly which caused C inconvenience. As such he said 
Fairmead should compensate C for this by paying £300. He also said C would need to take 
up their complaint about not being provided with policy wording with its broker because the 
policy was sold to it through one.
 
Mr H doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Loss of Rents claim
The type of cover C is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others 
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. 
The starting point is to consider the specific policy C took out. As such Ive considered 
every aspect of the policy C holds with Fairmead to determine whether there are any 
sections that would require Fairmead to meet the loss of rents claim. I havent however 
considered the accidental damage claim because that is the subject of another complaint 
to this Service which is being dealt with separately.
When C made its claim to Fairmead it said it wasnt receiving rents from its tenant and 
referenced the government imposed closure due to Covid-19 as the reason for this. So 
Fairmead considered the claim under the Disease, Infestation and Defective Sanitation 
section of the policy. I know that C feels the closure was also due to the damage it said the 
property sustained but as I said above I wont be dealing with this claim in this decision 
because its the subject of a separate complaint to this Service.  For that reason, Ive 
looked at the most appropriate section of the policy that would apply which states:
We will indemnify You in respect of loss of Gross Rentals as insured under this Section
resulting from the occurrence of
(2) a Notifiable Disease sustained by any person at The Premises.
Notifiable disease is defined in the policy as
The occurrence of any of the following diseases sustained by any person
Diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act 1984 or the Public
Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations 1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Food
poisoning, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal septicaemia
(without meningitis), Mumps, Opthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies,
Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, 
Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, 
Whooping cough and Yellow fever.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides C with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. 
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something Fairmead might have 
known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes anything. Thats 
because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present pandemic. These tend 
to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated on a 
Government defined list. Cs policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are covered by the 
policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and effect of 
the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. There are many 
potential illnesses that the policy does not cover. And although Ive considered that the 
policy doesnt specifically exclude Covid-19, I dont think it can or should fairly be read as 
covering any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
Ive also considered that policyholders might feel business interruption policies should 
provide cover in uncertain circumstances such as this. And I agree that there are policies 
that would have provided cover for things like a pandemic but this isnt one of them. 
Generally, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for us to require a business to fund a claim for risks it hasnt envisaged- whether or not those risks are unpredictable. And whilst I 
appreciate that C couldnt have predicted that it might need pandemic cover, Fairmead 
cant be held responsible for not covering a claim where the policy doesnt provide for it.
Delays
Like the investigator, I agree that until the point where Fairmead provided us with its final 
reply on Cs complaint in February 2021, it hadnt dealt with Cs claim for damage promptly. 
C had pointed out the damage claim in July 2020 but by February 2021 nothing significant 
had happened on Fairmeads part save to say they wouldnt appoint a loss adjuster until 
they could determine whether this was appropriate or not with the benefit of evidence. 
During the intervening period I can see that Mr H did seem to provide responses to any 
questions Fairmead had asked and there were long periods where Fairmead didnt respond 
to Mr Hs emails at all. Mr H had to chase for a reply on more than one occasion. He also 
sought the assistance of this Service in respect of that. 
Because C isnt an individual, I cant make any awards in respect of distress, but I can 
award it compensation for the inconvenience it was put to as a result of these delays. I 
agree that £300 is the right amount to properly compensate it for this. I havent awarded 
anything else for this because I cant say C would necessarily have benefitted had 
Fairmead dealt with its claim more promptly. As matters stand, the claim has been 
declined. Whilst I dont know how our Service would view Fairmeads approach to this 
(because it is being considered separately) I havent seen any clear evidence to suggest 
that there was a significant detriment to C in Fairmead declining this claim sooner other 
than the inconvenience of Mr H having to chase them. 
Lack of policy documents
Mr H feels that Fairmead werent entitled to rely on the policy terms they quoted when 
turning down Cs claim for loss of rents because he hadnt seen a copy of those terms.
The insurance C purchased was through a broker. So any documents C did or didnt receive 
would be a matter between C and its broker. I cant however say that C is entitled to 
disregard the terms of cover just because the broker didnt supply them with a copy of the 
policy terms. I know Mr H thinks Cs broker is not at fault here- and that might be right- but 
that doesnt mean that Fairmead isnt entitled to rely on the contract of insurance C 
purchased from its broker which was underwritten by Fairmead.
If Mr H remains unhappy with this he should refer the matter to his broker to consider, failing 
which he can refer any complaints C might have about this to this Service.
Putting things right
Fairmead should pay C £300 for the inconvenience it caused C as a result of the delays in 
dealing with Cs damage to property claim up to February 2021.
My final decision
I uphold Cs complaint against Fairmead Insurance Limited and direct it to comply with my 
award of fair compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman