DRN-2755750
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) took too long to close his loan account.
What happened
Mr M says following receipt of an early settlement figure, he repaid his loan account with 
TSB on 23 January 2021. Around the same time Mr M says he received a letter from TSB 
indicating he still owed a small amount on his loan account, which was to be taken by way of 
direct debit. Mr M says he made a number of phone calls to TSB, but the loan account 
wasnt closed until a month after he had settled it. In addition, Mr M says TSB, when dealing 
with his complaint, sent a letter to him without postage, resulting in him having to go to the 
post office and pay the postage himself. Mr M feels the offer made by TSB to put matters 
right doesnt go far enough to cover the inconvenience and upset he has experienced. 
 
TSB says they have apologised for sending out a misleading letter to Mr M and have paid 
him £20 for the inconvenience caused to him and a further £8 to more than cover his costs 
of the letter without postage. TSB says they had explained to Mr M, shortly after sending the 
incorrect letter, it was a mistake and no further payments were due.
 
Mr M wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint . The 
investigator felt while TSB had made a mistake in sending out the letter regarding the loan 
payment due and for sending a letter without the postage, they had apologised and 
recompensed Mr M for this. The investigator felt TSB had provided evidence to show the 
loan had been repaid within a couple of weeks and this hadnt cost Mr M any more than the 
settlement quote he was originally given.
 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand the confusion and inconvenience Mr M experienced here and when 
considering this complaint, I will look at whether TSB have sufficiently compensated Mr M for 
the trouble he has gone through.  
Mr M s issue here is two-fold, firstly it took around a month to close his loan account when 
he expected this to be completed much sooner and secondly TSB sent misleading 
information to him about his loan and then sent a letter without the correct postage, causing 
him further inconvenience. 
From the information I have seen Mr M made a payment on 23 January 2021 to settle his 
loan account following his request for an early settlement figure from TSB. For some reason 
around the same time TSB sent out a letter to Mr M suggesting he needed to pay a small 
sum by way of direct debit to close the loan account. Theres no doubt this letter was 
generated in error by TSB and Mr M was informed of this around a week later. What is 
important is the loan was closed by TSB and in line with the settlement figure provided by 
them, so Mr M hasnt suffered any financial loss here. That said, TSB have paid Mr M £20 
for the confusion this caused him, and I am satisfied this is a reasonable award, given within 
a week the mistake was explained to Mr M over the telephone. 
From the information provided to this service, I can see the loan was closed on TSBs books 
on 10 February 2021, but their confirmation letter wasnt sent until a couple of weeks later. 
Initially Mr M was worried the time it took for him to finally hear his loan was repaid, had 
affected his credit file, but I am pleased to learn that Mr M has confirmed this is not the case. 
I am also satisfied the incorrect letter regarding the additional payment due, was triggered by 
an internal administration error at TSB, and nothing else.
With regard to the letter sent to Mr M without postage, I can understand this would be 
frustrating, but TSB have covered his expenses, so I am satisfied this is sufficient as they 
have paid him more than the amount of the postage costs incurred by him.  
While I can see these incidents would have been confusing for Mr M, thats not to say 
mistakes like these, while inconvenient, must demand a compensation payment as a result,  
and I dont think further compensation is warranted here, for the reasons I have given.
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman