DRN-3315268
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as Live Lend was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr G applied online for a loan from Live Lend for £10,000. The loan was 
taken out over 30 months with an APR of 34.2% and his monthly repayments were £475.68 
making the total repayable at the end of the term £14,270.34. 
Mr G complained that Live Lend hadnt properly checked the loan was affordable for him. He 
said if Live Lend had checked his bank statements, it would have seen that hed lost 
thousands of pounds in gambling shortly before applying for the loan and also borrowed 
almost £15,000 from other lenders around the same time.
Live Lend looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had correctly assessed his 
suitability for a loan at the time he made his application. Mr G referred his complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Gs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Live Lend complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Live Lend act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Live Lend to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Live Lend had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Live Lend to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
With regard to the first question Mr G told Live Lend when he applied for the loan that his 
monthly income was £6,186, his rent was £925 a month and he spent £950 on other living 
costs. To verify that, Live Lend carried out a full credit search and completed checks on the 
bank details hed provided to verify his income. The credit search showed that Mr G had two 
credit cards with a total balance of £244 outstanding and three current accounts which were 
in credit. This would have reassured Live Lend that Mr G had a high level of income and 
was good at managing credit. Live Lend calculated that Mr G would have a disposable 
income of £3,905 a month after making his loan repayment to it. So I think it was reasonable 
for Live Lend to consider the results of the credit check as representing a consumer in a 
secure financial position.
Live Lends credit search didnt show the other recent loan applications hed made as this 
information doesnt show on a customers credit file straightaway.
However Live Lend would have known about the recent loans and Mr Gs gambling problem 
if it had asked for sight of his bank statements. Ive considered whether as part of carrying 
out reasonable and proportionate checks Live Lend should have asked for a copy of these. 
But I think its important to bear in mind that the checks Live Lend had carried out showed 
that Mr G appeared to be managing his finances very well. In the light of this I can 
understand why Live Lend didnt feel the need to check Mr Gs outgoings further before 
agreeing the loan and I think it was reasonable for Live Lend to rely on the information 
provided by him about his living costs.
Ive also considered whether Live Lend should have queried why Mr G was taking out an 
expensive loan which was less than three months worth of his disposable income. I agree 
thats a fair question but it doesnt appear to be one that Live Lend asked at any point in the 
application process. However I dont think it would have been proportionate for Live Lend to 
make such detailed enquiries. It might reasonably have assumed that Mr G might have had 
some additional discretionary expenditure that ate into his surplus income.So I currently think it was reasonable for Live Lend to approve this loan to Mr G. I appreciate 
that my decision will be disappointing for him. But I think that the lender was entitled to rely 
on the information he provided about his finances, as supported by the results of its checks. 
And those suggested that the loan would be sustainably affordable. 
Ive also thought about whether Live Lend acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. So Im not minded to uphold the complaint.
Mr G was understandably very disappointed by my provisional decision. He referred me to 
several decisions on our website where complaints had been upheld in what he thought 
were similar circumstances to his own. He also referred me to a complaint which has been 
provisionally upheld against another lender who lent to him about the same time as Live 
Lend. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should explain that any complaint considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
is done so on its own merits. My findings here are specific to the evidence and 
circumstances relating to Mr Gs complaint about Live Lend. Ive seen a copy of the 
provisional decision for Mr Gs other complaint. But the circumstances of that loan 
application were different from the one Im looking at, for example with regard to the 
questions Live Lend asked as part of the application process about expenditure and the 
checks it did to establish Mr Gs disposable income.
I should also point out that generally I think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough - in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
To recap, the data that Live Lend had from its credit check included:
monthly Income (verified over both 6 and 12 months),
verification of address / electoral roll (demonstrating stability),
experience with credit across both loans and credit cards (all settled),
evidence of historic Short Term High Cost Credit but it dated back over 2 years (i.e. not 
current),
verification of two credit cards at c.35% utilisation, suggesting good credit management 
/plenty of headroom.
In addition Live Lend had information from Mr G about his employment status, monthly rent 
and monthly non-discretionary living costs. It asked him questions about his rent, household 
bills and subscriptions, transport and travel, food, clothing and other regular spending. The 
figures that he gave for his rent and living costs (£925 and £950) were high enough to look 
realistic in my view.
With the repayment of the Live Lend loan on top of the other credit commitments revealed by 
the credit search it appeared that Mr G was due to spend under 7% of his monthly income 
on debt. When that was considered alongside Mr Gs verified monthly net income and 
declared living expenses, it seemed to leave a considerable disposable income for him.
I have thought carefully about whether it was sufficient for Live Lend to rely on the above 
information before approving the loan to Mr G. Or whether it should, as Mr G suggests, have sought independent verification such as sight of his bank statements. On balance I 
think Mr Gs financial situation appeared to be so sound as to make it reasonable for Live 
Lend to rely on the information it had without further independent evidence. I appreciate 
how disappointing my decision will be for Mr G but I dont think there was anything in the 
results of the checks that might have led Live Lend to consider that Mr G would be likely to 
be unable to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman