DRN-1373152
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc turned down his application to open a bank 
account.
What happened
In 2013, Barclays closed Mr Cs bank account and passed information about the account to 
Cifas, a fraud prevention agency. In 2018, Mr C tried to open a bank account with another 
bank. His application was turned down and he was told this was because of the Cifas 
marker.
In 2019, Mr Cs Member of Parliament (MP) wrote to Barclays to ask why it had turned down 
Mr Cs application for a bank account. Barclays asked for further details related to the 
application, but didnt receive a reply. Barclays then wrote to the MP to say that it couldnt 
provide any specific information because it hadnt been provided with enough information to 
locate an application from Mr C. However, if Mr C had an application rejected, it would be 
because he didnt currently meet its banking criteria.
Barclays wrote to the MP again to say that it had reviewed the decision for closing Mr Cs 
account in 2013 and identified that it had taken the correct action in closing his bank 
account, but it shouldnt have applied the Cifas marker. It had now removed it. Barclays 
confirmed that it had offered Mr C £150 compensation, which he had accepted. 
Mr C complained to this service about not being able to apply for a bank account with 
Barclays. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that it was a commercial 
decision who banks chose to accept as a customer.
As Mr C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C was unable to open a bank account with another bank due to Barclays passing his 
details to Cifas in 2013. When Barclays looked into this more recently, it realised that it 
shouldnt have applied the Cifas marker and arranged for this to be removed and paid Mr C 
compensation. Im therefore satisfied that Barclays has already addressed an underlying 
issue that only came to light when he attempted to open an account with the other bank. 
However, the main focus of Mr Cs complaint is that he now wants to open a bank account 
with Barclays.
I think there has been a misunderstanding in this case. The response from Barclays to the 
MP about any recent applications was a general answer and wasnt specific to Mr C, as the 
MP didnt provide enough information for Barclays to check whether Mr C had recently 
applied for a bank account. Barclays therefore wasnt saying that Mr C couldnt apply for a 
bank account, it was saying that if he had, and that application had been turned down, it 
would have been based on Barclays banking criteria.
I asked Mr C to provide details for any recent applications that he had made to Barclays. He 
wasnt able to provide any information. I therefore asked Barclays to check its records for 
any applications using Mr Cs recent addresses. Barclays checked and said that it hadnt 
turned down any applications from him. It confirmed that if Mr C still wanted to apply for a 
bank account, that it would consider the application. I understand that Mr C has now applied 
for a bank account with Barclays and was able to open the account.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman