DRN-3231090
The complaint
Mr F complains that Forester Life Limited (Forester Life) failed to correctly set up his direct
debit payment for payments to his daughters Child Trust Fund (CTF). 
What happened
Mr F holds a CTF with Forester Life for his daughter. In May 2020 Mr F cancelled his
monthly direct debit. In October 2020 Mr F called Forester Life to reinstate the direct debit for
the CTF. The direct debit amount was for £132.76. At the time, Forester Life confirmed this
had been done, however, Mr F realised in February 2021 that no payments had been taken
from his bank account.
Mr F complained to Forester Life as it hadnt taken his payments and he had since spent the
money earmarked for the CTF. Forester Life explained that the issue was to do with when
his direct debit was originally put on hold. Forest Life said that when that was done, it was
done so in the incorrect section of its system which prevented his direct debit from collecting
when he requested his direct debit to be reinstated in October 2020. Forester Life confirmed
it had resolved the error and provided feedback and training to ensure the error doesnt
reoccur. Forester Life apologised for the error and gave Mr F the option to pay the missed
direct debits into the plan as a single lump sum payment to ensure his daughter doesnt miss
out on any contributions.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service as he felt Forester Life should pay him
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by finding out that he was
behind on payments to the CTF.
An investigator at our service looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt uphold it. He said
Forester Life had proposed a fair way of putting Mr F back in the position he would have
been in had the error not occurred, as it allowed him to contribute the same amount had the
direct debits been taken.
The investigator said that whilst he appreciated Mr F may have spent the money earmarked
for CTF as he hadnt realised the payments hadnt been taken until February 2021, it was
ultimately Mr Fs responsibility to be aware of his own banking activities. As such, it wouldnt
be fair to ask Forester Life to compensate him for this. The investigator also didnt think an
award for distress and inconvenience was warranted as the error was quickly rectified.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021, explaining why I didnt intend to uphold 
this complaint. I include this below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Forester Life accepts that it caused the error re-instating Mr Fs direct debit for the CTF and
so my provisional decision will focus only on how it should put things right for Mr F.
Clearly, Mr F has missed out on the opportunity to pay his monthly contributions to the CTF
between October 2020 and February 2021 at no fault of his own. And Im pleased to see that
Forester Life did give Mr F the option to pay the missed direct debits into the CTF as a single
lump sum payment in its March 2021 final response letter. Whilst I think this is a fair and
reasonable offer, Im conscious that Mr F says he didnt have the funds available to make
this lump sum payment at the time of the offer. Mr F says he spent the funds which would
have otherwise been taken the direct debit each month as he had no knowledge that this
money hadnt been debited from his bank account. I have no reason not to believe Mr F
regarding this and, on balance, Im not persuaded he ought to have noticed this sooner
before overspending. I say this as he had no reason to suspect the direct debit hadnt been
reinstated correctly as Forester Life had confirmed that it had done so on the call in October
2020. Therefore, I think Mr F should still be given the opportunity to make up these missed
payments despite not having the funds available to do so at the time of Forester Life making
the offer.
Some time has passed since this offer was made to Mr F and Im aware that he has since
made some one-off payments amounting to £850. The monthly direct debits which Mr F
missed between October 2020 and February 2021 amounted to £663.80. Forester Life has
confirmed that the unit price of the fund in the CTF was higher at the time these one-off
payments were made compared to the prices during the missed direct debit months. So he
would have purchased more units in the CTF had the direct debit payments been collected
as they ought to have been.
Considering Mr F has made a number of one off-payments which amount to more than the
original missed direct debit payments, I think the fairest way to put things right for Mr F would
be for Forester Life to reconstruct his one-off payments so that the first £663.80 of the £850
is applied to the CTF as if his direct debit had been taken throughout October 2020 and
February 2021. I understand Forester Life has told our service that its willing to apply Mr Fs
one-off payments in this suggested way, however, it has also mentioned that Mr Fs has
outstanding payments to needed to bring the account up-to-date. I dont think it would be fair
or reasonable to ask Mr F to make up these payments in order for the one-off payments to
be applied in the way Ive suggested. My provisional decision focuses only on the missed
direct debit payments between October 2020 and February 2021 due to the error caused by
Forester Life. Any missed payments outside of this period falls outside of the scope of my
provisional decision and so making up these payments is at the discretion of Mr F.
Ive also considered how Foresters Lifes error impacted Mr F. Mr F says Forester Life
declined to provide compensation for the error and the poor service he received caused him
distress. Whilst I appreciate finding out in the moment that the payments hadnt been taken
would have caused some distress to Mr F, especially considering this was a way for him to
save money for his daughter, Im aware that this was a one-off error which Forester Life tried
to put right straight away. I also dont consider the service he was provided was poor, as
whilst it was unfortunate that Mr F didnt have the funds to take up Forester Lifes offer, I
think it was ultimately a fair and reasonable offer at the time. Im pleased to see Forester Life
apologised for the error in its final response letter and I think this apology recognises the
level of distress caused.
Responses to my provisional decisionForester Life accepted my provisional findings, but Mr F didnt as he believes Forester Life 
should make up the direct debits that were missed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs response is wholly regarding fair compensation. He believes that Forester Life should 
make up the missed direct debit payments. However, I think this level of compensation is 
disproportionate to the error Forster Life caused and so I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask it to do this. I dont intend to repeat the findings I made in my provisional 
decision  they are set out above and I dont consider the information Mr F has provided in 
response to that provisional decision makes a material difference to what Ive previously 
said. My decision on how to put things right for Mr F remains unchanged and Im pleased to 
see that Forester Life agrees to this slight change from the offer it originally put forward - in 
light of Mr F subsequently making one-off payments.
Putting things right
Forester Life Limited needs to reconstruct Mr Fs one-off payments so that £663.80 of
the £850 paid is applied to the CTF as if his direct debit had been taken throughout October
2020 and February 2021.   
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Forester Life Limited to reconstruct Mr Fs CTF as set out 
above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman