DRN-4215873
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains about how Allianz Insurance Plc settled a claim made on its 
commercial motor insurance policy. It wants an increase in the settlement. 
What happened
Js car was involved in a collision, and it was later deemed to be a total loss. J had 
previously declared to Allianz that the car was a previous Category S total loss and had 
been modified. J initially dealt with the other drivers insurer to reach a settlement. But, three 
months after the accident, J made a claim to Allianz. By that time, J had stripped the car and 
rebuilt another car with some of the parts. 
Allianz inspected the damaged car and made J an offer for its total loss, less the policy 
excess. It said this took into account the cars insured value, its previous Category S write 
off, and it included an amount for modified parts. But it wouldnt pay for the cost of the 
rebuild as it said this was an uninsured loss. J said if it hadnt stripped the car then Allianz 
would have valued it with the modifications. J said it was out of pocket by £10,000. It thought 
Allianz could recoup its outlay from the other insurer.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought it 
wasnt Allianzs fault that it inspected the car later as a claim wasnt made until three months 
after the incident. She thought Allianzs valuation of the cars base value was fair and 
reasonable as it was within the range of valuations she found in keeping our approach. She 
thought J had reduced the value of the car by stripping it and retaining the parts. So she 
thought Allianzs offer for the cost of replacing some parts was fair and reasonable. 
But she thought Allianz should also pay J for the labour costs it had incurred when it rebuilt 
the car, at cost-only rates, with interest. This was to restore Js position so it could buy a car 
of the same specification and quality, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Allianz agreed to do this. But J said it was offering only half the labour costs incurred. It 
thought Allianz should cover the full costs of the claim and recover this outlay from the other 
drivers insurer. J asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that J wants a fair settlement for the loss of its car. Our approach in cases 
like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Js policy and I can see that under Indemnity 2  Damage, it states:
We will indemnify You against loss of or damage to the Insured Vehicle up to the Insured 
Value. If We agree to pay for damage to be repaired We may decide to use suitable parts 
which are not supplied by the original manufacturer.
In the event of a total loss payment in respect of an Insured Vehicle, then We shall become 
entitled to possession and ownership of the vehicle.
Insured Value:
The sum for which the Rental Vehicle or a vehicle of equivalent quality and specification 
could have been purchased by You at the time of the loss.
So Id usually expect that following a claim for damage Allianz would assess the cars value, 
including the value of the declared modifications. If a total loss payment was made, then 
Allianz would retain the salvage. But this wasnt possible in Js circumstances as it had 
already stripped the car before Allianz could assess it. And it retained parts that should have 
been Allianzs possessions if it had included them in its total loss payment. 
So Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable way to resolve the matter was to obtain a 
valuation for the cars base, and then to add an amount for the parts that needed to be 
replaced, and to include the labour costs for the rebuild. I think this would fulfil Allianzs 
obligations under the policys terms and conditions to pay a sum for the cost of a car of 
equivalent quality and specification. 
Our Investigator thought that Allianzs valuation for the cars base was fair and reasonable. 
So Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. The Investigator has explained this 
services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to 
whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator looked in the trade guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, 
mileage, condition and specification as Js car at the date of its loss. The valuation Allianz 
offered was within the range of those she found. And so I think, in keeping with our 
approach, Allianzs valuation of the cars base market value was fair and reasonable. 
Allianz then deducted 20% for the car being a previous total loss, and I think thats also in 
keeping with our approach. So Im satisfied its starting valuation of £7,300, less the policy 
excess, was fair. 
Allianz then added an amount for parts that needed to be replaced. J thought it should cover 
the costs of a list of extras added to the car. But these had been removed when Allianz 
made its inspection and used to build another car. I can understand that J was keen to 
replace the damaged car. But I cant hold Allianz responsible for its decisions to not make a 
claim for three months and to strip the car before the inspection. 
Also, J had the benefit of the parts it removed that should have belonged to Allianz following 
the total loss. So I think Allianzs offer of £688 for the parts that needed to be replaced as 
they had been damaged in the accident was fair and reasonable. 
Allianz has already agreed to pay for the labour costs J incurred in the rebuild. And I think 
thats fair and reasonable as it meets its obligation under the policys terms and conditions to 
provide an amount to buy a car of equivalent quality and condition. And Im satisfied that 
Allianz needs only to pay the labour costs without a profit element for J as it cant profit from 
a claim. 
J said its labour cost of £2,009.75 was calculated at the standard rate it charges its 
customers. So I think this should be recalculated to a cost-only figure so that Allianz would 
pay the labour costs less any element of profit. J has been without its money for some time, 
so I think Allianz should reasonably add interest to this amount, calculated from a month 
after the claim was made when I would expect it to have been paid.J thought Allianz should recover the full claim costs from the other insurer. But Allianz is 
required to justify its costs and so I cant say that would be fair or reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to reimburse J for the labour costs of the rebuild of its car, 
calculated at cost-only, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple from a month 
after the date of the claim to the date of payment, as its already agreed to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Allianz Insurance Plc to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed to 
do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman