DRN-2020865
The complaint
  Miss P is unhappy with how Auto Logistic Solutions Limited (ALS) dealt with her claim 
following a road traffic accident.
Miss P is being represented in this complaint by Mr G. But, for ease of reference, Ill refer to 
both Miss P and Mr G as Miss P.
What happened
  On 20 February 2019 Miss P was involved in a road traffic accident. Following the accident 
she was taken to hospital and discharged the same day. She instructed ALS to manage her 
claim. ALS arranged to recover Miss Ps car from the accident site. They also arranged for 
her to have a hire car once shed been discharged from hospital 
Miss P was found to be at fault for the accident. And, because ALS could only deal with non-
fault claims, Miss Ps insurer needed to take over the claim. So ALS took back the hire car. 
On 19 July 2019 Miss P was invoiced a total of £4,456.56 for the costs of the hire car 
(£3,630), the recovery of her car (£658.50), a fee for the engineers inspection (£126.00) and 
an admin fee (£51.06).
Miss P has complained that:
She wasnt aware ALS were an accident management company (AMC) when she 
instructed them, and she thought they were her insurers.
She had to arrange for a taxi to get her home from hospital
The terms of the hire car werent explained to her.
ALS are no longer able to deal with her claim.
Shes been asked to pay the hire car fees and other fees.
ALS didnt collect the hire car when they said they would.
ALS didnt respond to her request for copy paperwork. 
ALS didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. So shes brought it to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said ALS had made it clear from the outset, both verbally and in writing, that 
they were separate to Miss Ps insurance company, and that they could only deal with non-
fault claims. So she didnt think ALS had mis-represented themselves. Or that theyd acted 
unreasonably when they stopped acted for Miss P once liability became disputed.
With regards to the hire car, the investigator said ALS had offered to deliver this to Miss P in 
hospital, but shed refused and asked for this to be delivered to her at home. Because of 
this, she didnt think ALS should refund Miss P for the cost of a taxi back from the hospital.
But the investigator thought that ALS didnt give Miss P sufficient time to read and 
understand the hire car paperwork, and they didnt leave her with a copy. The investigator 
thought that, if ALS had done so, Miss P wouldve taken the option to cancel the hire car 
agreement within 14 days. So she recommended that ALS recalculate the hire car charges. 
She also thought ALS should apologise for the delay in collecting the hire car. Miss P didnt 
agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on her 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2020, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about AMCs were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the events Miss P is complaining about took 
place before this change in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken. 
Immediately following the accident, Miss P contacted who she thought were her insurance 
company to make them aware of the claim. But shed actually contacted a third-party 
company who then put her in touch with ALS. Miss P has said that, when ALS called, she 
was still suffering from the immediate after effects of the accident. But, despite this, she 
chose to continue with the conversation with ALS, rather than asking to speak to them at a 
more convenient time.
Ive listened to the call Miss P had with ALS on 20 February 2019  the day of the accident. 
At the very outset of the call ALS said were an independent accident management 
company, we deal with non-fault claims, we claim directly from the other persons insurance 
for the damage to your vehicle. That means it doesnt go through your insurance at all.  
After being told this, Miss P confirmed she was happy to continue with the call. 
During this call Miss P explained the circumstances of the accident  she said the other 
driver had pulled out of a junction and hit her car, spinning it around and into a bollard. Im 
satisfied Miss P was made aware ALS they could only act if the accident wasnt Miss Ps 
fault. And the circumstances of the accident described by Miss P indicated it wasnt her fault.
ALS followed up this call with an email the same day. Theres nothing in either the phone call 
or follow-up email that indicates ALS are part of, or are acting for, Miss Ps insurance 
company. ALS have been quite clear they are an independent company and under what 
specific circumstances theyre able to act.
In a further phone call the same day, ALS contacted Miss P to arrange delivery of the hire 
car. She was still in hospital at the time, and ALS offered to deliver the car to her there. But 
Miss P refused this offer, because she didnt think shed be able to drive home, and she 
arranged for the car to be delivered to her home the following day. At no point during these 
calls did Miss P ask for assistance in getting home from the hospital.
Because of this I dont think ALS left Miss P stranded at hospital, meaning that she had no 
choice but to get a taxi home. While she chose this method, she could also have arranged 
for a family member or friend to collect her. So I wont be asking ALS to reimburse Miss P for 
the taxi costs. This is an out of pocket expense that Miss P couldve looked to claim through 
her insurers, once they took over the claim.Ive seen that, when she signed the hire car paperwork on 21 February 2019, Miss P 
declared that she needed the hire car to get to work. Miss P has since confirmed she used 
the hire car while she had it. And when ALS told her the hire car needed to be collected Miss 
P was unhappy because this left her without transportation.
Based on what Miss Ps said, she didnt think she was at fault for the accident. So, while she 
was liable for any hire car charges that couldnt be recovered; because Miss P didnt think 
she was liable for the accident, so wouldnt have seen any reason why the hire car costs 
wouldnt be recovered, even if shed been left with the paperwork I dont think she wouldve 
cancelled the hire car. 
So I dont agree with the investigator that, had Miss P been given a copy of all of the hire car 
paperwork, she wouldve returned the car within 14 days (and remained without any means 
of transport after that point). Because of this, I also dont agree with the recommendation 
that Miss P should only be charged for 14 days hire.
But this doesnt mean that ALS shouldnt have left Miss P with a copy of the paperwork. It 
just means that the outcome wouldve been the same if they had done  Miss P would still 
have been held liable for the accident and become liable for the hire car costs, as well as 
any storage and recovery costs.
Once liability became disputed, ALS could no longer act for Miss P. This had been made 
clear to her at the outset of the claim, so I dont think they did anything wrong by stepping 
back and letting Miss Ps insurance take over.
But in stepping back, ALS needed to recover the hire car from Miss P. It was agreed that this 
should be recovered on 8 March 2019, but this didnt happen. Miss P had to chase ALS 
about the non-collection, and the hire car wasnt collected until 11 March 2019.
Because of this, I dont think its fair that Miss P should pay any hire charges after 8 March 
2019, as she wasnt a fault for the hire car not being collected. And I also think ALS should 
compensate her for the inconvenience caused by the hire car not being collected when it 
shouldve been.
Ive also listened to the call on 8 March 2019, when ALS transferred the claim to Miss Ps 
insurer. Its clear from this call that the insurer wouldnt be taking any responsibility for any 
costs Miss P incurred before they became involved  this included storage and recovery 
charges as well as hire car costs. 
Following this call, and on the same day, Miss P asked ALS is there any outstanding money 
that I have to pay? In response, the ALS representative told her I do not believe so and 
went on to explain that ALS would do their best to recover any outstanding costs from the 
other drivers insurance company. 
I dont think ALS went far enough on this call. They gave Miss P the impression that no costs 
were outstanding and, if this wasnt the case, then ALS would recover these from the other 
drivers insurance. What they didnt do was tell her that, if she was determined to be liable 
for causing the accident, then shed be liable for any costs. Because of this I agree that, four 
months later when Miss P received an invoice for the outstanding costs, this wouldve come 
as a shock to her.Whats more, from my understanding of the evidence Ive seen, Miss P has a solicitor acting 
as her representative in this claim. And shes being charged for this. When considering these 
costs the Legal Ombudsman wouldve considered whether the matter was so complex it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect someone to be able to deal with it without professional 
legal assistance. And it a matter like this, this wouldnt have been the case. 
The underlying complaint about how ALS treated Miss Ps claim is fairly simple. And If Miss 
P didnt feel able to deal with this herself, she couldve asked a family member or friend, or 
even an organisation like the Citizens Advice Bureau, to assist her. And this wouldve been 
at no cost to herself. So the Legal Ombudsman wouldve said that it was Miss Ps choice to 
instruct a solicitor to act for her and they wouldnt have asked ALS to cover the costs of this. 
So, I wont be asking ALS to contribute to Miss Ps solicitors costs either.
For the reasons explained above I intend to uphold Miss Ps complaint about Auto Logistic 
Solutions Limited. And I think they should:
Reduce the car hire charges to cover the period of 21 February 2019 to 8 March 
2019 only.
Pay Miss P £150 compensation for:
ofailing to leave her with copies of the hire car agreement on 21 February 
2019; 
oFailing to collect the hire car on 8 March 2019, as agreed; and
ofailing to tell Miss P on the call of 8 March 2019 that she may be liable for 
costs of £4,465.56 if the accident was determined to be her fault and they 
were unable to recover these.
Responses
ALS didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Miss P did. And she didnt agree with me. 
Miss P agreed that, had she been left with the paperwork, she wouldnt have cancelled the 
agreement because she didnt believe she was at fault for the accident. But she said that, if 
shed have known she might be liable for ALSs costs, then she wouldnt have agreed to take 
the hire car.
Miss P also said she was in shock and not with it when ALS first called her. And she didnt 
complete the paperwork for the hire car  the boxes were ticked by the person who 
delivered the car. 
Miss P said she only used the hire car once, to visit the doctors, and she thinks the £165 
daily hire charge was excessive. So shed like me to reconsider my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  When ALS first contacted Miss P she was asked if she was ok to talk. If she was still shook 
up from the accident, and didnt feel she was able to make any decisions, she couldve 
asked them to call back. But she didnt. She also couldve asked the person delivering the 
hire car if she could read and answer the questions, instead of them doing this for her. But 
again she didnt. These were her choices, and I cant say that ALS did anything wrong 
because of them.
Regardless of this, what I think is most important is that Miss P has confirmed she didnt 
think she was at fault for the accident. So, even if shed fully understood at the time she might be charged the cost of hiring the car (if the accident was determined to be her fault); 
because she didnt think she was at fault, I dont think the potential for possible future hire 
car costs wouldve altered her decision to take the car.
As I said in my provisional decision, this doesnt mean that ALS shouldnt have left Miss P 
with a copy of the paperwork. It just means that the outcome wouldve been the same if they 
had done  Miss P would still have been held liable for the accident and become liable for 
the hire car costs, as well as any storage and recovery costs.
Miss P has also commented on the cost of the hire car and how much she used it. Its not 
my role to say how much ALS could or couldnt charge for their services. And the Legal 
Ombudsman wouldve said that, as long as the charges were clear on the paperwork, then 
ALS are acting reasonably by charging them. The costs were clear and, for the reasons 
already given, Im satisfied that if Miss P had been given a copy of the paperwork, the 
charges wouldnt have meant shed acted differently to how she did.
Miss P has said that she only used the hire car once. But, when asked if she needed a hire 
car, Miss P told ALS she did. And, when ALS told her they were taking the car away, she 
was unhappy because this left her without any transportation. Because of this, Im satisfied 
that Miss P wanted the availability of a hire car for her to use as and when necessary. And 
the limited use she actually made of it doesnt alter this need.
Because of this, Miss Ps comments dont change my provisional view.
Putting things right
 For the reasons explained above ALS should:
Reduce the car hire charges to cover the period of 21 February 2019 to 8 March 
2019 only.
Pay Miss P £150 compensation for:
ofailing to leave her with copies of the hire car agreement on 21 February 
2019; 
oFailing to collect the hire car on 8 March 2019, as agreed; and
ofailing to tell Miss P on the call of 8 March 2019 that she may be liable for 
costs of £4,465.56 if the accident was determined to be her fault and they 
were unable to recover these.
My final decision
  For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ps complaint. Auto Logistic Solutions 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman