DRN-1424464
The complaint
Miss M complains about problems she experienced with Direct Debit payments after 
switching her account to TSB Bank plc (TSB).
What happened
In February 2018, Miss M switched her current account to TSB. The Direct Debits and other 
payments which were in place on her original account were to be transferred over to the new 
TSB account as part of the switch. But Miss M says TSB failed to do this. She says they 
didnt transfer two Direct Debits and a Standing Order. She says that, as a result, these 
payments werent made and she had to contact the service providers herself to set up new 
payment instructions.
Miss M says that TSB also failed to pay her Council Tax Direct Debit in November 2018. She 
says she found this out when she received a letter from the Council, which caused her great 
distress and embarrassment. Miss M had to complete a new Direct Debit mandate. She says 
that, as a result of TSBs mistake, the amount of her Council Tax payments has increased.
Miss M complained to TSB in November 2018. TSB sent their final response in February 
2019. They upheld the complaint in part and apologised for the delay in responding to it. 
They paid a total of £375 to Miss M as compensation for the inconvenience shed 
experienced and the expense shed incurred.
But Miss M wasnt happy with TSBs response and brought her complaint to this service. 
She said that, by failing to transfer the payments, TSB didnt fulfil their obligations under the 
Switch Agreement. And she says that, when she told TSB branch staff of the problems, they 
sought to blame the payees rather than accept any responsibility. 
Miss M is also unhappy that, having made her complaint in November 2018, she received a 
series of holding letters over a period of around three months. After TSB sent their final 
response, Miss M wrote to them again. She says that, again, she had to wait months for a 
response. And that, when she did hear from TSB, they didnt answer the points shed raised. 
Miss M says the delays were unacceptable and that TSB havent provided a competent 
service. 
Our investigator thought TSB had dealt with the complaint fairly and that theyd already done 
enough to put things right. So he didnt uphold the complaint. But Miss M didnt agree and 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She remains unhappy with the 
service she received from TSB and says shes had to spend hours of her time writing to TSB 
and pursuing this complaint. She wants further compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as well as the expenses shes incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Miss M has complained specifically about two Direct Debits and a Standing Order which she 
says werent transferred as part of the switch. Ill look at each of these in turn.
The first was a Direct Debit payment to a utility provider which Ill call H. Miss Ms statements 
show that this Direct Debit was being paid from the TSB account from March 2018 onwards. 
Miss M says thats because she set it up again after H contacted her to tell her it had been 
cancelled.
I note that Miss M contacted TSB in April 2018 and told them shed received a letter from H 
telling her that the Direct Debit had been cancelled. But a Direct Debit payment was made to 
H on 5 March 2018. This was after the switch but before Ms Ms call to TSB. This suggests 
that the payment had been transferred. 
The reference number on the Direct Debit payments from March 2018 onwards is the same 
as the Direct Debit reference number provided by Miss Ms old bank. Its also on the list of 
payments which TSB told Miss M theyd set up when they wrote to her about the switch on 
20 February 2018. So, whilst I dont doubt that Miss M was contacted by H about the Direct 
Debit and that there was some discrepancy over it, I havent seen anything which enables 
me safely to conclude that TSB made a mistake with this Direct Debit.
The next Direct Debit which Miss M says wasnt paid was to a retailer which Ill call D. Ive 
seen the list of Direct Debits provided by Miss Ms original bank. D wasnt on the list. So Im 
satisfied that TSB didnt receive an instruction to take over a Direct Debit to D. But I note that 
Miss M also refers to this payee by another name, which Ill call N. This provider is on the list 
and is also referred to in TSBs letter of 20 February 2018 confirming the payments which 
had been set up.
I note from Miss Ms statements that Direct Debit payments went out to N in July, August 
and November 2018. The payments arent for the same amount each month. I dont have 
any information which explains why no payments were made to N from March to June 2018. 
But I note from Miss Ms handwritten note on one of the documents shes provided that N 
takes what it needs each month and that the amount isnt always the same. So a possible 
explanation is that no payments were made between March and June because nothing was 
due to N during those months. Just as no payments were made to N in September or 
October 2018. But the Direct Debit was definitely in place by then, because payments had 
been taken in July and August.
I note that TSBs final response letter says the reason the Direct Debit wasnt paid to D was 
because D didnt respond to TSBs request. This doesnt appear to be correct. Its 
unfortunate that Miss M was given the wrong information about this issue. But, from the 
information available to me, I cant conclude that TSB made a mistake by not setting up a 
Direct Debit in Ds name. And I havent seen any evidence that the Direct Debit to N was 
incorrectly set up.
In relation to the Standing Order to A, I havent seen any evidence that this was set up on 
the TSB account. A Direct Debit payment to A was made in August 2018. But Miss M says 
she had to set this up herself when she realised that the Standing Order payment had failed. 
I note that TSBs letter dated 20 February includes A in the list of payments which have been 
set up. But it doesnt specify whether this is a Standing Order or a Direct Debit. Theres no 
other information available for me to consider about this. But Ive no reason to doubt what 
Miss M says on this issue.
Regarding the Council Tax, Im satisfied that the Direct Debit instruction for this was 
transferred to TSB at the time of the switch. Payments were taken monthly from April to 
October 2018. (Council Tax payments arent generally taken in March.) I note that the Council changed their computer system in around November 2018 and Im satisfied that the 
failed November payment related to this, rather than the account switch.
I can understand that the situation was frustrating and stressful for Miss M and caused her 
inconvenience. She feels strongly that TSB should have been able to deal with the Councils 
system change without the Direct Debit being cancelled. And the letter from the Council 
confirms that this problem seems to have been unique to TSB. But I dont think all the 
negative consequences were TSBs fault. 
The new Direct Debit wasnt in place in time for the November payment, so that was missed. 
But I havent seen anything which suggests it was TSBs fault that no further payments were 
taken until January 2019. As to the increased amount of the payments, I dont have any 
information explaining the reason for this. But, as Miss M hadnt made payments in 
November or December, I find it likely that the Council increased the payments from January 
onwards to include the missed payment amounts. That would mean that, overall, Miss M 
wasnt paying more Council Tax  the payments were just being spread differently. But if 
Miss M is unsure of the reason for the increased payments, she should contact the Council.
As to the length of time TSB took to respond to Miss Ms complaint, its unfortunate that they 
werent able to do so within eight weeks. But they kept her informed about the delay and 
also confirmed that they would consent to this service considering the complaint outside of 
the usual time limits. I dont find that the delay hampered Miss Ms ability to bring the 
complaint to this service. As to the response of the branch staff which Miss M has 
complained about, it does sound unfortunate. But, as the formal complaint was upheld, I 
dont find that it had any significant consequences which havent already been taken account 
of in the compensation paid by TSB so far.
Overall, TSB accept that there were some problems with the service they provided to Miss M 
here and I agree. But theyve already apologised and paid compensation of £375 in total.  I 
think thats a fair amount to reflect everything that happened here and I havent seen 
anything which makes me think they need to do more. So Im not going to uphold this 
complaint, because I think TSB have already done enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman