DRN-3114030
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd handled a claim on her roadside 
assistance insurance policy.   
What happened
Miss Rs car broke down, so she called Bastion to claim on her policy. She told them she 
was driving along, and all the warning lights came on and she then lost power so pulled over 
to the side of the road. She said it was showing the yellow battery sign. During the call 
Bastion said Miss R could either have roadside assistance or recovery but said if Miss R 
took recovery that she would need to find her own way home. At the time Miss R was around 
a 40 minute drive from home. Because of this she opted for roadside assistance to try and 
fix her car at the side of the road. 
When Bastion arrived it was unable to start Miss Rs car and said there was a fault with the 
alternator. Because of this Miss R needed to have her car recovered. Bastion said as shed 
had a call out for this issue already that it couldnt provide recovery under the policy. As Miss 
R was stuck at the side of a road in the dark, she paid £216 to have her car recovered. She 
also complained to Bastion as she didnt think the policy had done what it should. 
Bastion didnt respond to Miss Rs complaint, so she referred it here. She said her policy 
says it will provide roadside assistance and recovery, so she didnt think Bastion had treated 
her fairly by not providing recovery when it wasnt able to fix her car at the side of the road. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Rs complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found 
that the policy wording wasnt clear that it was either roadside assistance or recovery, 
because this she didnt think Bastion had acted fairly. She recommended Bastion reimburse 
Miss R the £216 she paid for recovery and also pay her £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Bastion responded and didnt agree, it said Miss R had been made aware in the call that she 
could only have either roadside assistance or recovery. It also said the policy was clear that 
Miss R would only have one of the other and referred to several parts of the policy 
documents to show this. 
As Bastion didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Bastions response to us it referred to several different terms, ultimately it said Miss R 
could only have one call out per incident. And that as shed chosen roadside assistance, 
shed had her call out. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Rs policy say under the eligibility section:
If Your Vehicle suffers a Breakdown which occurs during the course of a journey, we 
will provide assistance for any Breakdown in accordance with the policy wording and 
dispatch costs involved for either the roadside assistance and/or recovery to the 
nearest Suitable Garage (not including parts and labour) during the period of cover 
and within the territorial limits. 
Ive reviewed this term and while it does say either it then goes on to say and/or, Im 
therefore not persuaded its clear the policy will only provide one or the other. 
The next term Bastion referred to is a definition of Unique which says: 
Unique - limited to a single fault. Where the same fault occurs twice, We may only 
respond where You can prove that the original fault was rectified by a Suitable 
Garage and evidenced in writing. In the event of a Breakdown You may be required 
to choose from Roadside Assistance or a Local Recovery. Acceptance of either 
Roadside Assistance or Local Recovery may be deemed acceptance of the single 
fault. Any follow up calls for assistance may be considered second faults for the 
purposes of this policy
Ive reviewed this definition and while it says accepting roadside assistance or local recovery 
may be deemed of a single fault, and any further call outs may be considered second faults, 
it doesnt say that will definitely be the case. Also, this is a definition in the policy and Bastion 
hasnt shown which term this relates too. 
I have seen though that the explanation of silver cover in the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) has the word unique in it. However, the IPID is there to highlight 
significant terms and exclusions of the policy. The policy document shows the full terms and 
conditions of Miss Rs policy. And the policy document doesnt have the same explanation of 
silver cover and doesnt include the word unique. So its not clear what part of the policy 
the definition relates too. Im therefore under to review the actual term to decide if Bastion is 
applying it in a fair and reasonable way.  
The next term Bastion referred to is a general exclusion which says:
This policy will not apply for any claim caused by, arising from, or relating to, the 
following:..
xxvi. Subsequent call outs for any symptoms related to a claim which has been 
made, unless Your Vehicle has been fully repaired at an approved garage
Ive reviewed this exclusion, but Im not satisfied it applies here. I say that because Miss Rs 
car broke down and she called for assistance. As Bastion were unable to repair her car at 
the roadside she needed recovering to a garage or her home address. The policy term for 
roadside assistance also says:
If, in the opinion of Our Breakdown and recovery operator, they are unable to repair 
the Vehicle at the roadside We may assist by providing Local or National Recovery 
as required.
So as Miss Rs car couldnt be repaired at the roadside, and the policy says it may assist by 
providing local or national recovery. I think the fair and reasonable outcome would have been to offer 
recovery in this particular case.  And as Bastion didnt offer recovery to Miss R, she then paid £216 to 
have her car recovered. It therefore follows that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Bastion to 
refund the £216 she paid to her. Im also persuaded that Bastion should compensate Miss R for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused by not providing her with recovery. I say that because Miss R had to arrange 
for recovery separately and shes said she had to borrow the money off a family member to enable 
her to get home. Im satisfied that £150 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Miss R the £216 she paid for recovery, and £150 for 
distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman